FILE -COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 300a-ME
APPRAISAL OF THE
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
MEXICO
February 4, 1974
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Thbi report was prepared for official usn only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, qioted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility ftr the
acuracy or completenoe of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  = Mexican Peso (Mex$)             1 Mex$          -  US$ 0.08
US$1           = Mex$ 12.5                       Mex$ 1 million =  US$ 80,000
Measures
mm    =   millimeter (1 mm = 0.039 inch)
m     =   meter (1 m 3.28 feet)
km    =   kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
ha    =   hectare (1 ha = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres)
km2   -   square kilometer (1 km2 = 247.1 acres   100 ha = 0.386 square miles)
m3    =   cubic meter (1 m3 = 1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US gallons)
Mm3   =  million m3 (1 Mm3 = 811 acre feet)
kg    =   kilogram (1 kg = 2.2 lb)
ton   =       1,000kg = 2,205 lb
Abbreviations
SRH             =  Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (Ministry of Water Resources)
PSG             =  Comision de Estudios del Rio Panuco (SRH Commission dealing
with the Panuco Basin
DAAC            =  Departamento de Asuntos Agrarios y Colonizacion (Department
of Agrarian Affairs and Colonization)
FONDO           =  Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia
y Avicultura (Fund in Central Bank to provide agricultural
credit)
SAG             =  Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia (Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock)
PLAMEPA         =  Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario (SRH group providing
intensive extension service)
CONASUPO        =  Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares (Government
organization guaranteeing prices and purchases of subsistence
crops)
BANEJIDAL       =  Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal (official Bank granting
credit to ejidatarios only)
BANCO AGRICOLA  =  Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola, S .A. (official Bank
granting credit to small private holders and colonists)
BANAGRO         =  Banco Nacional Agropecuario, S.A.
IDB             =  Interamerican Development Bank
USAID           = United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year - January 1 - December 31



MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........................                      i - ii
I.  INTRODUCTION .......................                                          1
II.  BACKGROUND    ...............................                                  1
General  ...1....................................... 
Agricultural  Sector  ......             ........................           2
Government Policy for Agriculture  ............... .                        2
Agricultural  Supporting Services  ..                 ...............       4
III.    THE PROJECT AREA                 ...................................         5
Climate ...........                                                         6
Population ........................                                         6
Present Land Use .....................                                      6
Transportation,  Processing and Marketing  .........                        6
Land Tenure and Farm Size  ........................                         7
IV.    THE PROJECT               ......................................            8
Description                             . .                                8
Water Supply,  Requirements and Utilization                   .......     10
Status of Engineering  ......              ......................         11
Cost Estimates               ...................................          11
Financing         ....................      ....................          13
Procurement         ...................       ...................         13
Expenditure Schedules  ............           ..     ..............       14
Disbursements  ..................              ..................         14
Advance Contracting  ......              ........................         15
Accounts and Auditing  ............           ..     ..............       16
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ......................                        16
Administration  ........            ...........................           16
Operation and Maintenance  .....              ...................         16
Agricultural  Services  ......             ......................         17
Water and Development Charges  .................                ...       17






Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FURMERS' INCOME ..   18
Production   .......................................  18
Markets and Marketing ............................   20
Farmers'  Income  ..................................  20
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....     ..................   22
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........   23
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Bank Loans for the Agricultural Sector in Mexico
Annex 2 - Soils and Topography
Annex 3 - Precipitation Pattern
Annex 4 - The Ejidal System, Water Law, and Land Tenure
Annex 5 - Project Works
Annex 6 - Construction Schedule
Annex 7 - Water Availability, Requirements, Utilization and
Quality
Annex 8 - Cost Estimates
Annex 9 - Equipment and Materials
Annex 10 - Expenditure Schedules
Annex 11 - Disbursement Schedule
Annex 12 - Advance Contracting
Annex 13 - Operation and Maintenance
Annex 14 - Agricultural Services



Annex 15 - Assumption on Crops, Areas, Labor, Yields, Farugate
Prices and Cost of Production
Annex 16 -  Detailed Production Costs
Annex 17 - Cropping Pattern, Production, Costs and Value of
Production
Annex 18 - The Outlook for Cotton
Annex 19 - Markets and Marketing
Annex 20 - Farm Budgets
Annex 21 - Economic Evaluation
CHARTS
7434     -    Organization of SRH
8110     -    Organization Panuco Study Commission
MAP
10554      -    Panuco Stage-One Project



MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         This report appraises a project for the construction of irrigation
systems to serve 137,000 ha in three separate areas of the Panuco Basin in
the States of Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosi, and Veracruz.
ii.        Of Mexico's population of 54 million, about 21 million live in
rural areas. Increase of rural population is estimated to be close to 2%
p.a., and in view of the limited land resources -- 16.4 million ha including
4.2 million under irrigation, were cultivated in 1972 out of a potential of
35 million ha -- the Government is faced with problems regarding agricultural
production and distribution of wealth. Government policies place emphasis
on irrigation as the most effective means of both increasing agricultural
production to meet the growing local demands, and to serve as a means to
distribute wealth more equitably through the application of agrarian reform.
The creation of three new irrigation districts envisaged under the project
would allow the redistribution of all privately owned farms larger than 20
ha per holding to form new communal farms.
iii.       The three project areas are Las Animas, Pujal Coy and Chicayan.
The development plans for each differ only in the means of providing the
irrigation water supply. In the case of Las Animas, a diversion dam would
be constructed to divert water from the Guayalejo River into an offstream
storage reservoir. Pujal Coy would have no major water storage facility
and water would be pumped from the uncontrolled flows of the Tampaon River.
Chicayan would involve construction of a storage reservoir across the Chicayan
River. All three areas would have an irrigation water distribution system,
a drainage system, and a road network. Lands requiring it would be cleared
and all lands would be leveled. An intensive agricultural extension program
is included.
iv.        The total cost of the proposed project is US$208.4 million, in-
clusive of interest on the Bank loan during the construction period. The
proposed Bank loan of US$77 million would cover the estimated foreign ex-
change component of US$75.2 million (including the estimated interest of
US$11.0 million on the Bank loan during the construction period but exclud-
ing the foreign exchange components of the costs of steel, cement and small
equipment (US$4 million)), plus US$1.8 million as one-half the cost of the
extension program. The remaining costs of the project would be met through
Government budgetary allocations.   Major civil works contracts, and equip-
ment purchases financed under the loan, would be let under international
bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Some land clearing,
the land leveling and certain small civil works contracts aggregating not
over Mex$ 30 million would be done through standard Government procedures.



- ii -
Disbursements under the loan would be made as 38% of payments to contractors
on contracts let under international bidding procedures andl 38% of payments
to contractors for land clearing, leveling and small contracts. Disbursements
for equipment purchased under international bidding would be 100% of foreign
expenditure. Disbursement for the costs of the extension program would be
50% of actual cost, and, for 100% of interest and other charges on the Bank
loan.
v.         The Ministry of Water Resources (Secreteria de Recursos Hidraulicos)
(SRi) would have responsibility for constructing, operating, and main-
taining the project, and for providing the agricultural extension service.
The Ministry of Agriculture would assist in the technical aspects of the
extension service, while the Department of Agrarian Affairs would be
responsible for redistribution of lands, selection of new ejidatarios, 1/
and organizing new ejidos for the project. Normal banking channels would
provide the credit requirements. The private sector, assisted by Govern-
ment, would aprovide additional marketing and supply facilities.
vi.        The annual value of net production in the project area would in-
crease from Mex$101 million (US$8.1 million) to Mex$763 million (US$61.0
million) as measured in average 1971/72 farm-gate financial prices. To
achieve this production, approximately 17,000 man-years of employment would
be required, compared to 2,000 man-years at present. Approximately 5,300
individuals over and above those now on the project area would be given the
opportunity to become ejidatarios. The average net income of an individual
ejidatario would increase from about Mex$17,000 to Mex$68,000, about 83%
of the project benefits would accrue to ejidatarios. The economic rate
of return of the three projects, when evaluated individually, is 19% for
Las Animas, 20% for Pujal Coy, and 22% for Chicayan, showing that each area
justifies its development.
vii.       With satisfactory assurances having been obtained at negotiations,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$77 million, for a term of
25 years, with a grace period of five years. The borrower would be Nac-
ional Financiera, S.A., the Government agency empowered to contract for
external financing. The United Mexican States would guarantee the loan and
carry the exchange risk.
1/    Ejidatarios are members of ejidos (communal farms).



MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico has requested a Bank loan of US$77 mil-
lion to help finance the construction of the first-stage of the Panuco ir-
rigation system, which is designed to serve about 137,000 ha within the
Panuco River Basin. The loan would be made to Nacional Financiera with
the United Mexican States as Guarantor. Four previous Bank loans, totalling
US$71.5 1/, million have been made for irrigation projects, as well as four
loans, totalling US$275.0 million for agricultural credit. Progress on these
projects has been generally satisfactory, although cost over-runs due to
particular local circumstances have occurred on the last two irrigation pro-
jects. An overall performance evaluation is given in Annex 1.
1.02      Three separate and distinct areas are proposed for development
under the Panuco First-Stage Project.  Each was chosen as having the most
merit for early development, based on the suitability of lands, the avail-
ability of water and sufficient basic data on which to plan development.
They are an initial stage of an envisaged large regional development effort
of the Government. The project was prepared by the Secretaria de Recursos
Hidraulicos (SRII) and its subsidiary local organization, the Comision de
Estudios de la Cuenca del Rio Panuco (Panuco Study Commission, PSC).
1.03      This report is based on the studies prepared by SRH and PSC, and
on the findings of an appraisal mission in May 1973, composed of J.C. Doug-
lass, R. R. Rossi, A. Amir and M. 2Miller (Bank staff).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Since 1060, Mexico's overall economic performance has been
impressive, with GDP growing at an average annual rate of 7% and infla-
tion being Iimited to abotut 3.5% annually. Despite this, Mexico is faced
with the triple problems of a rapidly increasing population, uneven dis-
tribution of wealth, and relatively limited agricultural resources in
relation to its size. The total population is just over 54 million, of which
21 million (41%X) live in the rural areas. With an annual rate of increase of
3.4%, the population is likely to be 100 million by 1990. Income distribution
1/   Loan 275-ME in January 1961 for US$15 million; Loan 336-ME in April
1963 for US$12.5 million; Loan 450-DE in May 1966 for US$19 million;
and Loan 527-ME in January 1968 for US$25 million.



is highly skewed, with the top 10% of the population in 1969 commanding 51%
of the disposable income and the bottom 20% only 4%. There is also a marked
disparity between urban and rural incomes, for, whereas the average per capita
GNP for the country as a whole was US$670 in 1971, in the rmral areas it was
less than US$200. Nor is the pattern of land use very favorable. Out of a
total area of nearly 200 million ha, only 35 million ha is potential crop
land, of which about 16 million are presently cultivated including 4 million
under irrigation. It is estimated that about 12 million ha is suitable for
irrigation. The Mexican Government has given agricultural development in
general, and irrigation development in particular, priority, particularly, as
such development is a suitable vehicle for extending agrarian reform.
Agricultural Sector
2.02      Although agriculture's direct contribution to GDP dropped from
25% in 1950 to 11% in 1972, it still plays a major role in the Mexican
economy. Approximately 39% of the labor force obtains its main income
from agriculture and, in 1972, the sector contributed about 50% of export
earnings. The target now is to sustain this export level while, at the
same time, producing enough food to meet the demand of a rapidly growing
domestic market.
2.03      From 1961 through 1965, agricultural production increased at an
average rate of 4.7% per year, but from 1966 onwards, it dropped to about
2%. For major staple foods, the poor performance is considered to be largely
the result of unfavorable climatic conditions and no permanent shortages are
forecasted. For livestock products, fats and oils, and fruits and vegetables,
however, production has continuously failed to keep pace with demand. This
situation is reflected in the market prices at farmgate, which exceed Govern-
ment guaranteed prices for most products, and in consumer prices, which since
1966 have increased faster than prices in general. Government has recognized
the seriousness of the situation and lists the achievement of production
increases among its main objectives for the agricultural sector. The main
constraints on agricultural development are the limited cultivable area, a
shortage of water and lack of access to technical assistance, long-term credit,
and farm inputs for a large number of producers.
Government Policy for Agriculture
2.04      Production Objective.  Mexico is facing two major problems.  The
first is to keep pace with the growth of demand for agricultural products and
the second is to correct maldistribution of income. Since the majority of
the population is located in the northern part of the country where rainfall
is lowT, Government has emphasized irrigation as a means of increasing produc-
tion. Irritated areas have tripled since 1950 and in 1970 covered 4.2 mil-
lion ha, producing 40% of the total agricultural production value and 60%
of the total crop output. Uowever, if population continues to grow at its
present rate and productivity trends do not improve rapidly, Mexico will



face a severe food shortage before the end of the century. Simultaneously,
there is a potential water scarcity that could lead to regional water
shortages in the late 1970's. 1/ Although increased attention is being
given to settlement and rural development projects, sustained efforts to
improve land productivity through efficient use of irrigation will be
necessary ii~ Mexico is to achieve its agricultural production goals.
2.05      Distribution Objective.  The second big problem facing Mexican
agriculture is maldistribution of income (para 2.01).  The average net
annual family income in Mexico is estimated at TJS$2,280, but the average
net annual `amilv income in rural areas is only about US$860.  However,
about 40% of the rural families have net annual family incomes of less
than US$560. These discrepancies arise mainly from the land tenure system.
2.06      The agricultural population can be subdivided into three groups:
landless peasants, ejidatarios, and private landowners. The landless
peasants provide most of the seasonal farm labor. Widespread unemployment
among the landless has caused massive migration towards the cities.
Ejidatarios are members of ejidos, which are groups of farmers. The
land remains the property of the ejido and is worked by the ejidatarios
individually or collectively. Although the ejidos were institutionalized
after the Mexican Revolution and their rights and obligations defined
by successive agrarian laws since 1917, their lot has improved very
little over the years. Private landowners generally have better access
to resources than the ejidatarios, but they often still lack critical
inputs such as water, capital, and technical expertise. While private
farners with sufficient land have usually obtained satisfactory incomes,
the majority of those with less than 20 ha have not been much better off
than the ejidatarios.
2.07      In recognition of the situation, the President of the Republic
has pledged to improve the lot of the poorer farmers and the Government
has passed two major laws to this effect: the new Federal Agrarian
Reform Law and the Federal Water Law.  The new Agrarian Reform Law is
development oriented. It recognizes the legal status of the ejidos,
which makes it possihle for ejidatarios to obtain credit; gives power to
the Denartamentn de Asuntos Agrarios y Colonizacion (DAAC) to carry out
land reform. determines the maximum and minimum sizes of farms to be
held nrivat2lv. fixes a ceiling on taxes to be paid by ejidatarios; and
provides for ro6istribucion of funds from production taxes paid by private
farmers.  Finally, it encourages ejidos to diversify into small-scale indus-
tries.  The FederaL Wlater Law reguilates the distribution of water and land
in Irrigation Districts in a more eauitable way. Under this law, the Govern-
ment can set up new Irrigation Districts and expropriate, with compensation,
all land and irrigation facilities in an area. The law also stipulates the
1/   IBRD is executive agency for a INDP-financed a National Water Plan
Study.



procedure for fixing water charges, requiring that the social and economic
sit-.ation of individual farmers in each district be taken into consideration.
Botll laws provide a good basis for development efforts aimed at helping the
poor Mexican farmers.
Agricultural Sup,orting Services
2.08      fecretarla de Recursos iidraulicosj JTF.  In 1.947, SRJI was
established as a Feceral Ministry, directly responsible to the President
of the Republic, with powers to control and expand explbiitation of the
country's water resources. Due to Government's emphasis on irrigation,
SPi grew rapidly and has now become the main agricultural organization in
the country. Bv 1971/72, it had developed 3.0 million ha under irrigation,
or 70%- of the country's totai irrigated area, the remaining 1.2 million ha
being privatelt cdeveloped.  Plans are now almost complete which call for new
irrigation sche,'es to be constructed over 800,000 ha and old districts to be
rehabilitated over 450,000 ha by 1976.
2.09      SP-I has, at headquarters level, four main subsecretaries concerned
with planning, construction, operation, and administration, but most of its
regional activities are undertaken directly by SRH--managed Irrigation Dis-
tricts. In five major river basins, however, including that of the Panuco
River, SRH commissions have been established. In the case of Panuco, the
Commission has a dual function and is responsible for studies for future
development of the Panuco Basin and for managing irrigation development for
SRH including construction and operation of the proposed project.
2.10      The Federal Water Law (para 2.07) requires that each Irrigation
District have a Management Committee (Comite Directivo) to advise and co-
ordinate operations in the District. This cormittee is made up of repre-
sentatives of SRH, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, DAAC, the
credit institutions and private banks, the ilational Insurance Agency for
Agriculture and{ Livestock, Nacional Financiera (if it so requests), and
farmers. One of its important duties is to set the cropping pattern.
Private farmers and eiidos submit their individual proposal s, which the
Committee then combines and adjusts to the overall water, technical, credit,
and market concitions.
2.11      R.ese c rch_.n  Extensios n.  Whhile 1Little has been done on rainf ed
crons, research. on -rcrate  crops has achieved considerabie success.  Agri-
cultural ex.ension services have been extremely poor.  Several Government
agencies provice extension services, but, except for some irrigation districts,
they have been spread too thin (approximately I office to 1,600 farmers) to
have an-. m,easurabie innact.  To commensate for this deficiency, private banks
and farm-ii±aut suppliers provide their own technical assistance to clients,
but their acrtvities nave naturally been concentrated on the most creditworthy
farmers, ieaving the others without adequate hielp.  In irrigated areas, SRH



- 5-
has set up an organization called Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario (PLAMEPA)
to direct efforts aimed at improving water use on farms that fall below the
average efficiency of a particular district.   This constitutes an intensive
extension e4fort. Results have been satisfactory, particularly with ejidata-
rios. PLAMEPA's assistance is often a condition for obtaining credit from
the private banks (see para 5.05). The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
recently granted a US$23 million loan to help finance the first phase of a
US$47 million project aimed at extending PLAMEPA's activities over about 1
million ha of ongoing irrigation projects, also financed with IDB assistance.
2.12      Agricultural Credit.  Farm credit is provided by both official and
private institutions. The Government's Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal
S.A. de C.V. (Banco Ejidal) lends to ejidatarios, the Banco Nacional de
Credito Agricola, S.A. (Banco Agricola) concentrates on lending to small-
scale farmers, and the Banco Nacional Agropecuario (BANAGRO) lends to any
farmer who has technical assistance. About 70% of agricultural lending is
by these official institutions and is in the form of short-term credit.
Medium and long-termn credit from Government has become significant only in
the last few years through the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricul-
tura, Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO) managed by the Bank of Mexico and has
been mostly financed by IBRD, IDB and USAID loans. Until 1972, less than
5% of the most needy farmers had received credit, but Government has since
announced its intention to guarantee at least 60% of the amount of the long-
term loans made by private financial institutions to groups of ejidatarios
or other small farmers. Also, in Bank loan 910-ME, US$25 million has been
reserved for lending to low income producers.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project would cover three separate and distinct areas, which
combined, would total 137,000 ha. All lie in the coastal plains of the
Panuco River Basin (see map 10,554). Las Animas is the farthest north of
the three and includes 48,000 ha lying on both banks of the Guayalejo River,
do{mnstrearn of the city of Mante in Tamaulipas state. Pujal Coy encompasses
72,000 ha lvinm; south of Las Animas and is situated between the left bank
of the Panuzo River and right bank of the Guayalejo River. The area lies
in the statc!s of Tn,,aulipas, San Luis Potosi and Veracruz.  Chicayan is the
farthest soutn cand contains 17,000 ha lying along both banks of the Chicayan
River south of the city of Panuco in Veracruz state.
3.02      ?roject lands lie between 5 m and 60 m above sea level and slope
towards tne sea at a gradient of between 0 and 12 m per Ih.  All three
areas are generally flat, with good internal drainage, although they are
subject to seasonal flooding. The soils are mainly alluvial clays and



- 6 -
clay loams of fine texture, which, while inherently fertile, require skill-
ful management when irrigated. In general, the soils are well suited to a
wide range of crops. The current cropping intensity is of the order of 57%
with equal areas devoted to rainfed crops and pastures for beef cattle pro-
duction. Only about 5,900 ha are irrigated mainly for vegetables and sugar
cane. Annex 2 gives details on soils and topography.
Climate
3.03      The climate is tropical with a distinct rainy season from June
to October. About once in 10 years, major hurricane storms strike the area,
usually in September or October. Although the mean annual rainfall is about
700 mm at Las Animas and about 950 at Pujal Coy and Chicayan, the pattern is
too erratic to support reasonably intensive agriculture. Annex 3 provides
monthly rainfall records at the city of Panuco between 1943 and 1971, which
illustrates the wide variations in rainfall which can be experienced at one
station. Temperatures range from a monthly average of 28°C in June to 18.5'
in January. Extremes vary from 42*C in June to 10°C in January. There are
no frosts.
Population
3.04      The estimated population in the project and adjacent areas, was
about 200,000 inhabitants in 1970, 35% of whom were classified as rural. The
rate of population growth is high (4.6% - 5.3% according to different munici-
palities), due to both natural increase and considerable immigration into the
area in search of work. The population is relatively young, about 65% being
under 24 years of age. In 1970, 24% of the population within the Las Animas
area had originated in other parts of the country. More than half of the
labor force is employed in agriculture. Considerable seasonal unemployment
exists within the region.
Present Land Use
3.05      Out of a total of 137,000 ha, approximately 59,000 ha are still
undeveloped, 35,200 ha are under rainfed farm crops, and 37,100 ha are in
improved pastures. Only about 5,900 ha are currently irrigated, mostly by
means of small pumping schemes. Some 4,800 ha of the irrigated land are
devoted to veaetables and the balance to sugarcane, fruit trees and im-
nroved pastures. Corn, sorghum, safflower and beef-cattle are the most
important activities under rainfed conditions. In the past, cotton was
important, but has since declined due to the incidence of pests and diseases
and the fact that harvesting often coincided with wet weather.
Transportation, Processing, and Marketing
3.06      The towlns within the project area are connected by a secondary
road network to Tampico, which is, in turn, linked by rail and road to



- 7 -
Mexico City and Monterrey.  Highways also link Tampico to San Luis Potosi
and Guadalajara, as well as to Matamoros (Brownsville, U.S.). Marine
and air transportation is available at Tampico. The project area needs
additional internal roads and the improvement of the few that do exist,
both to provide a basic network suitable for distributing farm inputs and
for transporting produce to other parts of Mexico or for export.
3.07       There are numerous cotton ginneries, sugar mills and grain storage
facilities, and, to a lesser extent, meat, fruit, and vegetable packing
plants, located in or adjacent to the project area. There are also trans-
portation companies providing non-refrigerated trucking services. The
existing facilities are generally adequate for present production and
have some surplus capacity. However, increased production due to the
project would require some enlargement, which is expected to be provided
primarily by the private sector.
3.08       Government annually fixes guaranteed prices for key commodities
such as maize, sorghum, safflower, soya, and beans and acts as residual
buyer through the Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares (CONASUPO).
Cattle are usually sold "on the hoof" to packing plants in Mexico City and
Monterrey. Sugarcane and cotton are the only crops processed in the
region, with soybean and safflower being sold to processing mills in the
larger cities outside the region. Most of the tomatoes and mangoes are
selected for export, graded, and packed in the region and trucked directly
to the border for export by the farmers and/or the packing plant operators,
using their own vehicles or trucks, which are readily available on a con-
tract basis.
3.09       The storage and processing of produce is reasonably adapted to
the present stage of development. For certain commodities like cotton
and sugar, there is, in fact, over-capacity due to decline in area devoted
to these crops over the last few years. With expansion of agricultural
production due to the project, there is potential for further development
of processing industries in the region, principally livestock, soybeans,
fruits, and vegetables, thereby creating additional employment.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.10       In the project area, approximately 105,700 ha are privately
owned or held by colonos (individuals who were settled on federal lands
under a coloniization scheme sponsored by the Government). In general, the
colonos have discharged their repayment obligation to the Government and
now have title, making them for practical purposes, small private land
owners. The balance of the 137,000 ha area, or 31,300 ha, belongs to
ejidos. The average size of the present private or colonos holding is
66 ha, while for the ejidatario, it is about 17 ha. Annex 4 gives fur-
ther details of the ejido system of farming, an analysis of holding sizes
of the private farmers and ejidos, and the changes that would be induced
by the project.



3.11       Under the Federal Water Law of 1971, the maximum size holding
allowed to a private individual in new irrigation districts is 20 ha
and the minimum allotment to an ejidatario is 10 ha. While some irriga-
tion is currently practiced on the project lands by pumping from the
rivers, no permanent irrigated land rights have been established. Acqui-
sition of such rights was specifically prohibited by Government decree,
pending preparation of a plan for development of the Panuco Basin. Thus,
all project la,nds are subject to the provisions of the Federal Water Law
and all present private and colonos holdings would be expropriated under
the project. Compensation would be provided and lands reallotted in 20-ha
irrigated units to existing private holders and colonos. New owners
would, however, be obliged to pay the appraised value of the new irrigated
holding. Present ejidal land would not be expropriated, but the ejidos
would be reorganized on the basis of 15 ha per ejidatario. This size was
chosen by the Government in order to establish full time farms and raise
the income of the ejidatario to a reasonable level. Lands acquired from
the private owners and colonos and not reallotted to them, would be used
to form new ejidos. The following tabulation compares the projected
land holding pattern with that now in effect.
Present Situation              With Project
No.    Ha.     Ave. Size   No.         Ha.     Ave. Size
Ha.                            Ha.
Private owners      755   72,997        97      685 /1   12,953        19
Colonos             839   32,687        39      839       16,780       20
Ejidatarios      1,873   31,361         17   77,153     107,312        15
TOTAL          3,467  137,045               8,677     137,045
/i    Assumes that some present private owners, with small holdings, would
elect to receive cash compensation in lieu of an equal size irrigated
holding.
The project would provide an opportunity to establish about 5,300 new
ejidatarios, which in effect more than doubles the numbers of families
with direct access to lands.
IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01       The proposed project would develop intensive irrigated agricul-
ture on 137,000 ha in three distinct areas in the Panuco River Basin:
Las Animas in she State of Tamaulipas; Pujal Coy in the States of Tamauli-
pas, San Luis Potosi and Veracruz; and Chicayan in the State of Veracruz.



The project would be in line with Government's overall policy to increase
production and provide for more equitable income distribution. Increased
production would be obtained through a more dependable water supply, im-
proved technology, a better supply of farm inputs generally, and improved
marketing facilities. A more equitable income distribution would be obtained
by settling a larger number of farmers on small farms capable of providing
acceptable levels of income, which would conform to the general philosophy
of the Agrarian Reform Law. Project works are detailed in Annex 5 and are
summarized below.
(a) Water Su ply Features
(i)  Las Animas.  A diversion dam would be constructed across
the Guayalejo River to divert water into a feeder canal
ending in a storage reservoir to be built across Las
Animas Arroyo., The reservoir would have a capacity of
600 Mm3 to supply the main canals for the irrigation
system.
(ii) Pujal Cay. A diversion dam would be constructed across
the Tampaon River to divert water into a feeder canal
supplying a pumping plant. The plant would have two
sets of pumps to discharge water into two small regulat-
ing reservoirs located at different elevations. The main
canal serving lands to the north would be supplied from
the higher regulating reservoir, while the main canal
serving lands along the Tampaon and Panuco Rivers would
be supplied from the lower regulating reservoir. A
second pumping plant would be constructed at station
40 km on the higher canal to serve other higher project
lands.
(iii)   Chicayan.  A storage reservoir with a capacity of 570 Mm3
would be constructed across the Chicayan River to regulate
the flows of that stream and provide the necessary water
supply to the main irrigation canals at each end of the
dam.
(b)  Irrigation Distribution System.  Each area would have its own
irrigation distribution system, consisting of main canals,
laterals, and sublaterals, to supply water to blocks of about
60 ha each. Devices would be installed for measuring deliveries
of irrigation water. Preliminary plans call for the system to
be lined with concrete, but, further study for final designs
will probably show that much of the lining could be eliminated.
(c) Drainage System. Each area would have a complete drainage
system to remove surplus rain and irrigation water. This
system would consist of open main and secondary drains to
discharge water into the natural stream channels. Total
length of drains would be about 1,600 km.



- 10 -
(d) Roads. A total of about 1,800 km of roads would be con-
structed along canals and drains to facilitate operation
and maintenance and for use by farmers. This system would
be supplemented by other connecting roads to provide a
complete network. Access roads to the storage reservoirs
of Las Animas and Chicayan are under construction and will
provide the main access to these operations.
(e) Auxiliary Works. Houses would be constructed for ditchriders,
and headquarters and suboffices would be built in each area.
A telephone network, linking key operating points, would also
be installed at each site.
(f) Land Preparation. Lands still in native vegetation would
be cleared and all project lands leveled.
In addition to the above civil wiorks, the project would provide equipment
and materials to be used for operation and maintenance purposes. It would
also finance an intensive agricultural extension program in the initial 4-
year period to insure proper use of water. All project activities are ex-
pected to be completed by June 30, 1980. A construction schedule is given
in Annex 6.  SRH would have overall responsibility for project implementation.
Water Supply, Requirements, and Utilization
4.02      Each of the three areas would derive its water supply from
separate tributaries of the Panuco River.  Analyses of water available
at project diversion points have been based on stream flow records cover-
ing the period 1955 through 1972 at Las Animas and Pujal Coy projects.  The
gauging station at Chicayan was not installed until 1969, but flows for the
period 1944 through June 1969 have been inferred by using another stream flow
record in an adjacent basin over the period of concurrent record as a basis.
Requirements for irrigation water have been estimated, using the cropping
pattern for each area, the Blaney-Criddle consumptive use formula, and rainfall
data. The main irrigation season would be from December to June. Conveyance
efficiency to the farm has been generally taken as 70% and the farm application
efficiency as 70% giving an overall efficiency of about 50%. A study of the
adequacy of the available water, as regulated by the project facilities, to
meet the water requirements indicates that on each sub-project, there would
be occasional periods of up to three months when shortages in supply could be
experienced. These would generally occur at the end of the dry season in May
and June. However, in view of the infrequency of such occurrences, it is
concluded that the water supply for each project would be adequate to meet
crop requirements (see Annex 7).
4.03      While the facilities proposed are expected to give an adequate
water supply for project purposes, there are many opportunities for
further irrigation developments in the Panuco Basin, both above and below



- 11 -
the three sites now proposed. These would, however, require construction
of new storage reservoirs if they were not to deplete water supplies to
the proposed project. The Government has given an assurance that it would
not permflt depletion of flows of the Guayalejo, Tampaon or Chicayan Rivers
that would adversely affect the project without specific concurrence of the
Bank.
Status of Engineering
4.04      Preliminary designs adequate for estimating project costs have
been made for all project features.  In addition, final designs and tender
documents have been prepared for all features on which construction would
be initiated in 1973 (para 4.13). Certain contracts have already been
negotiated for access roads and construction camps.
Cost Estimates
4.05      Project cost estimates are detailed by individual areas in Annex 8
and summarized below. The total foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$64.2 million, including US$4 million foreign exchange components of the
costs of material and small equipment which the Government would furnish
directly to contractors (see para 4.10) and of negotiated contracts other
than for land clearing and leveling (para 4.13). After deducting these items,
the remaining foreign exchange costs would be US$60.2 million which is con-
sidered in establishing the amount of the Bank loan.



- 12 -
---Mex$ Millions---   --- US$ Millions---       Z
11     Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign-Total Exchange
Civil Works
Let under international
competitive bidding
including small
contracts                 847    541  1,388   67.8   43.3   111.1    39
Land clearing & leveling  154       65    219   12.3    5.2    17.5    30
Negotiated contracts
(Access Road and Camp)    24       -       24    1.9   (0.5)    1.9       0
Equipment & Materials
Furnished by SRH (not
ICB)                       113     -      113    9.0   (2.3)    9.0       0
Operation and Mainte-
nance (Not ICB)             29     -       29    2.3   (1.2)    2.3       0
Purchased by SRH (ICB)       -      71      71    -       5.7      5.7   100
Engineering & Adminis-
tration                    178      -      178   14.2    -       14.2      0
Rights of Way                  36     -       36    2.9    -         2.9     0
Contingencies 10% physical  120.5   62.5   18.3  9.6    5.0    14.6    35
10% price                  120.5   62.5   18.3  9.7    5.0    14.7    35
Extension services             44     -       44    3.5    -         3.5     0
Total          1,666    802  2,468  133.2   64.2   197.4    33
Interest on loan dur-
ing construction           -      138    138    -       11.0    11.0
1,666    940  2,606  133.2   75.2   208.4
/1    Amounts in brackets, totaling US$4 million, indicate the estimated for-
eign exchange components for items not financed by the proposed loan;
they are not included in the column total.
Total project costs (in millions of US$) are divided between sub-projects
as follows:
Las Animas                 75.7
Pujal Coy                 93.2
Chicayan                   28.5
Total               197.4
4.06       Quantities of work items were estimated on the basis of the
preliminary designs. Unit costs for work items were based on information
provided by the construction division of SRH, which maintains a current



- 13 -
list of unit: prices for all categories of work by geographical area. Con-
tingencies of 10% have been added for physical aspects on civil works and
equipment and material purchases, and 10% for escalation of prices. Escal-
ation of construction costs has been about 3 to 4% per year according to
SRI! data and, since most of the construction work would be started in 1973
and 1974, the allowqance is considered adequate. Some contracts have al-
ready been awarded for amounts below the estimates given in para 4.05, and
some at higher prices. The estimates are considered adequate, particularly
since much of the concrete lining of canals included in the estimates should
prove to be unnecessary (para 4.01). The foreign exchange component of civil
works has been estimated on basis of depreciation of heavy equipment considered
appropriate during the period of construction.
Financing
4.07      The proposed Bank loan of US$77 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project except for the US$4 million referred to in
paragraph 4.05. The loan would also cover US$11 million interest on the Bank
loan during construction plus half the cost of the extension program (US$1.8
million). The balance would be financed under Government budget to SRH. The
loan would be made for 25 years with five years' grace, at the current Bank
rate of interest, to Nacional Financiera, S.A., Government agency in charge
of handling foreign loans and credits. The United Mexican States would be
the guarantor and would carrv the foreign exchange risk. Following a request
by Government at negotiations the closing date has been extended to December
31, 1980 to allow adequate time to complete the agriculture extension (PLAMEPA)
program, since this can only be fully effective after water is available. The
grace period has not been extended since the PLAMEPA program is only a small
portion of the project costs and the flow of project benefits should still
permit the repayment pattern that was originally envisaged. An appropriate
share of contracts let under approvedl procedures prior to the date of loan
signing (para 4.13) would be financed up to a maximum of US$3.0 million of
loan funds.
Procurement
4.08      Contracts for the principal features of construction work would
be awqarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank guidelines for procurement. Mexico has a well developed and
competent econtracting industrv, capable of doing all types of civil works at
competitive prices, and only rarely is a bid submitted from a non-Mexican
firm. !rowever, in order to make practicable the participation of interna-
tional conzractors, civil works would be grouped into contracts having a
minimum value of MexA20 million (US$1.6 million) insofar as possible.  Assur-
ances to this effect were given by Government during negotiations.
4.09      On previous Bank loans for irrigation projects, up to 20% of the
total value of civil works contracts could be done by force account, local
bidding or on a negotiated contract basis and still be eligible for fi-
nancing under the Bank loan. This provision covered the performance of small



- 14 -
jobs and SRH has used it, principally, to accomplish much of the land clearing
and leveling. Local groups of farmers have been organized into partnerships
to contract land leveling on small tracts up to 100 ha in size, using their
own farm machinery. The work provides income to the farmers pending completion
of the irrigation facilities, but, more importantly, it trains them in proper
leveling procedures and prepares them to maintain their fields in proper con-
dition. SRP. has provided engineering services and supervision of such con-
tracts. Since there is proven merit in this procedure, the Government would
award contracts for such activity under its standard procedures. Also, to
expedite the construction of civil works under ICB, small jobs which because
of timing or nature of the work cannot be included in the major contracts,
would be done under ordinary Government procedures up to a maximum value of
each contract of one million pesos provided the aggregate amount of these
contracts does not exceed 30 million pesos.
4.10      The normal practice for SRH is to let contracts under local
bidding procedures for supply, in bulk, of common building materials such
as cement and reinforcing steel. It then furnishes such items to civil works
contractors and the cost of such items is not included in the bids submitted
by the contractors. However, other items readily available in Mexico, such
as fabricated gates, and structural steel shapes, are included in the civil
works contracts on a furnish and install basis and are included in the con-
tractor's bids and paid for as a part of the civil works contracts. Special
equipment not available in Mexico such as large size electric motors and
pumps, certain types of valves and gate hoists are procured by SRE under inter-
national bidding procedures and paid for under separate supply contracts.
Equipment for operation and maintenance purposes such as tractors, trucks,
draglines, etc., are available in Mexico and are purchased under local bidding
procedures. Annex 9 gives further details on equipment and materials to be
purchased by SRH under local bidding, and that which would be purchased under
international bids. The items to be financed under the loan would be payments
to civil xorks contractors and the CIF value of equipment purchased under
international bidding.
Expenditure Schedules
4.11      Annex 10 gives schedules of annual expenditures for project
implementation.
Disbursements
4.12      Loan categories, amounts, and the basis for disbursement are as
follows:



- 15 -
Category  Item                           Total     Loan      Basis for
Cost     Amount   Disbursement
--US$ Million--
I       Civil works
Let under ICB      108.7)  128.6      48.5    38% of payments
to contractors
Small contracts
under local
bidding              2.4)
Clearing & level-
ing   17.5)
II       Equipment purchased
under ICB                     5.7       5.7    100% CIF
III       Extension services               3.5       1.8    50% of total costs
as certified by SRH
IV       Interest during
construction                 11.0      11.0    100% of actual costs
V       Unallocated                              10.0
77.0
Of the expenditures for equipment, only that purchased under international
bidding procedures would be eligible for disbursement. The expenditures for
the four-year period terminating June 30, 1980 of the extension program would
also be eligible for disbursement. In the event of higher costs in the first
four categories, funds would be shifted from the unallocated category to
increase the amounts as appropriate. Any funds remaining at the close of
disbursement would be cancelled. An estimated schedule of disbursements is
given in Annex 11. Because of overlap of closing date with the grace period
(para 4.07) disbursements would continue after the expiration of the grace
period.
Advance Contractin
4.13      The Government has recognized the urgency of initiating construc-
tion work on this project. Consequently, in 1972, SRIl negotiated contracts
for access roads to the Las Animas storage reservoir and the Paso de Piedras
dam site on the Chicayan. SIT-, in 1973, negotiated contracts for building
construction camps at Las Aztecas on Las Animas, at Ebano on Pujal Coy,,and
at the dam site of Chicayan. Costs incurred under these negotiated contracts
are not recommended for disbursement. SRH has, however, followed acceptable
international bidding procedures in seeking bids for civil works for Las
Animas and Pujal Coy. Annex 12 shows the details of such contracts that
have been awrarded during calendar year 1973.  Payments to contractors during



- 16 -
1973 are scheduled at Mex$80.6 million, but due to slippage, it is probable
that the full amount will not be earned. At the recommended disbursement
percentage of 38%, disbursement for contracts let before loan signing would
be about US$2.5 million, and it was agreed that up to UTS$3.0 million are
eligible for disbursement under the Bank loan.
Accounts and Auditing
4.14      SRH would maintain separate project accounts to reflect the fi-
nancial situation of the project. Accounts are subject to internal and external
audit by the Secretaria de la Presidencia, Direccion de Inversiones, and the
Secretaria del Patrimonio Nacional, Direccion de Contratos y Presupuestos.
Such audits are not conducted on a regular schedule. The Government gave an
assurance that they would promptly make available to the Bank such accounts
as audited under its laws and furnish such other pertinent information as the
Bank may reasonably request.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Administration
5.01      The project would be administered by SRH through its normal
organization channels, with the Tampico office having direct responsibility
for project construction and operation and maintenance (Chart 7434 shows the
organization of the Mexico City headquarters of SRH, while Chart 8110 illustra-
tes the organization of the Tampico office). The Gerencia General del Rio
Panuco (office of the General Manager for Rio Panuco) at Tampico handles all
SRH activities in the lower Panuco Basin and the Comision de Estudios del Rio
Panuco (Panuco Study Commission) prepares plans for development of the entire
Basin. The same staff serves both entities. It reports to the General Mana-
ger on administrative matters, but looks to SRH headquarters on technical
matters. DAAC in cooperation with SRH would be responsible for land redistri-
bution and the application of the agrarian reform and water laws to project
lands. DAAC would be involved in the expropriation of the private lands, the
layout of new farmplots and the compensation of private farmers. It would also
be responsible for reorganization of the ejidos. DAAC has started preliminary
reallocation work and it is expected that all such activities would be com-
pleted by the time water is available.
Operation and Maintenance
5.02      Three Irrigation Districts would be established to embrace each
of the'project areas, and each would have its own Management Committee
(Comite Directivo, para 2.10) to foster agricultural development. These
committees would decide on the cropping pattern and related use of water,
formulate and foster credit plans, promote farmers' organizations, and
periodically consider and recommend the water charges to be levied. Phys-
ical operation and maintenance of the project's systems would be handled by



- 17 -
the Panuco Study Commission responsible for such activities. Annex 13
gives details of operation and maintenance costs at full development and
shows the following:
Las Animas   Pujal Coy   Chicayan
Annual operation and maintenance costs
Total (Mex$ millions)                       15.3        37.3           5.3
Per ha (Mex$)                            318        518           311
US$ equivalent per ha                     25.40      41.40          24.90
The higher per hectare cost of Pujal Coy is attributed to the cost of
pumping.
Agricultural Services
5.03      Training.  Yexico has many schools and institutions devoted to
agricultural education and training. These are considered adequate and
no special additional training component is included in the project (see
Annex 14 for description of facilities).
5.04      Extension.  SRH, assisted by SAG, would provide an intensive
agricultural extension service during a four-year period to ensure good
irrigation practices. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that
such a service would be provided and continued after this initial period.
The estimated cost of the initial program is MEX$44.0 million (US$3.5 million).
Details are in Annex 14.
5.05      Credit.  Annex 14 describes the various banking institutions that
provide agricultural credit. BANAGRO is the official bank which is expected
to handle most of the credit needs of project farmers.  Current rates of
interest for short-term credit are 10.8% p.a., and from 7.6% to 12.0% for
long-term credit. Under the USAID - and IDB - supported projects for aow
income producers, the long-term interest rate is now 7.6%, but it originally
started in 1963 at 5.5% and has increased steadily ever since. Under the
IBRD-supported projects, the interest rate to low income producers is 7.6%,
but varies from 10 to 12% on loans to commercial farmers. At full develop-
ment, the annual credit required for crop production would be on the order
of Mlex$900 nillion. Long term credit of about Mex$200 million would be
required to establish fruit trees and livestock farms. During negotiations,
the Coverninent gave an assurance that it would make its best effort to make
available, promptly as needed, medium and long-term agricultural credit on
reasonable terms to farmers in the project area.
W4ater and Development Charges
5.06      The new Federal Water Law of 1971 requires SRH, with the advice
of DAAC and the Management Committee of each District to carry out socio-
economic studies to determine appropriate charges for the services rendered



-. 18 -
in each irrigation district. Water rates must take into account the re-
coverable nortion otfO the capital costs of the project, and the annual re-
current costs of administration, operation and maintenance. Charges may be
var-ed oni the basis of the quantity of water used, the area irrigated and the
cro7s grown. ihe law requires that water rates be reviewed periodically on
the basis o- data from socio-economic studies.  Irrigation service may be
susDended for failure to pay water rates, or compulsory proceedings may be
instituted through the Tederal Treasury to collect outstanding charges.  Fcr
the project, SRE proposes to establish a dual-type water charge, one component
to consist of a per ha charge, and a second component to be related to volume
of water used and crop grown. The total charge would be sufficient to pay
operation and maintenance costs, and as much of the capital investment as
appears reasonable; such judgment being on the basis of socioeconomic studies.
During negotiations, assurances were given that the Government would (a) charge
and collect water charges on the basis of the ability of water users to pay
and the need to maintain an incentive for them to make best use of the land
and water available to them, as necessary to cover all the operation and main-
tenance costs of the project and as much as practicable of the investment;
(b) carry out the initial socio-economic study by June 30, 1979, or such later
date as may be agreed with the Bank, to determine the ability of water users
to pay; (c) periodically review such study with a view to revise charges, if
appropriate; and (d) promptly give the Bank an opportunity to comment on
conclusions and recomnendations of the socioeconomic studies after each is
completed. In determining the investment cost to be repaid, the objective
should be to recover the investment cost in as short a time as possible (see
paras 6.06-6.08 for discussion of farmers' income, capacity to repay water
charges, and possible return on investment).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES & FARMERS' INICOMNr
Production
6.01      The project would substantially increase the cropping intensity
in all three areas. At present only one crop is grown per year and, bearing
in mind the amount of land in native vegetation, results in a cropping in-
tensitv of 57%.  With the protect, some 50,000 ha would be in perennial
crops stuch as sugarcane, fruit trees and pastures. If these are treated
as sin½-e crops, t-e cronppng intensity under project conditions would be
129%- The entire area would be under crop for four months of the year
(December through M'arch) and even in April, the period of minimum use, at
least 78,000 ha would be in crops.  Sovbeans, cotton, safflower and sorghum
would occupv the largest areas, while vegetables wuld make a major contri-
bution to _ncreased returns.  Cotton would be reinstated since with irrigation,
the planting season would be shifted to allow for growing and harvesting to
coincide wirh dry weather, thus improving the effectiveness of disease and
insect control and enabling the crop to be picked under dry conditions. The
cropping pattern with and without the project is summarized in para 6.03 below.



- 19 -
6.02      Yields would increase as a result of irrigation and the availabil-
ity of better technical assistance. Annex 15 provides further details, which
are summarized in para 6.03. The present yields reflect current experience
in the area, whereas projected yields are based on what has been accomplished
under similar irrigated conditions elsewhere in Mexico, and are about 75% of
exnerimental results in an area immediately adjacent to the project.  They are
considered realistic and fully attainable. The effect of dry years and possible
Trater shortages are reflected, in the yield estimates.
6.03      Overall production in the project area wuld increase about
900,000 tons. Annex 16 details the production costs by crop, while An-
nex 17 shows the net value of production with and without the project and
The increment attributed to the project. This shows a net annual produc-
tion value with the project at full development of Mex$763 million, a value
witlhout the project of Mex$l0l million, and an incremental net value of
Mex$662 million. Production data is summarized below.
Net Incremental
_ Without Project        W%ith Project          Production
Produc-   Crop-        Produc-   Produc-  Produc-
Yield    tion      ped   Yield  tion        tion      tion
Area  (Tons/   ('000      Area  (Tonis/ ('000    ('000       Value
Crops      (ha)    ha)      Ton)      (ha)    ha)  Ton)       Ton)   (US$'000)
Soybeans 1,200    0.9       1.08   30,000   2.5    75        73.92      6.78
Vege-
tables  4,800   11.0    52.80    8,000  18.0   144          91.20      5.84
Beans/
Pulses  2,000    1.0       2.00    4,000   1.5       6       4.00      0.19
\-Rice        -                -       6,000 5n.0.    30        30.00      2.02
Corn    11,000    1-.1    12.10    4,000   3.0    12         (0.10)    0.19
Cotton   2,000    1.5        3.00   25,000   2.5    62         59.50     5.69
Saf-
flower  8,000    0.7       5.60   20,000   2.0    40        34.40      3.16
Sorghtm 11,000    1.8    19.80   30,000   5.0   150         130.20      4.60
Sugar-
cane      400   60.0    24.00    3,000 100.0   300         276.00      1.11
Fruit
trees     700    8.0       5.60    8,000  20.0   160       154.40    19.22
9as-
tures  37,100    0.3      9.09   39,000   1.5    57         48.24      4.16
Native
veg.   58,84z5         -        -            -     -          -         -
TOTAL  137,045            135.07  177,()00        1036      901.76    52.96
Cropping
Intensity
(^)      57                        129



- 20 -
Mfarkets and Marketing
6.04      'Iarket opportunities have been carefully considered in determining
the proposed cropping pattern. -Then fully operational, the project would
produce significant quantities of sorghum, rice, soybeans, safflower, fruits
and cotton (Annex 18) together with relatively small quantities of corn,
vegetables, beans, sugarcane and beef. Fruits, sugar and a small portion of
the vegetable productions will be exported and are expected to find ready
markets in the U.S. Most of the production, however, from the project will
go to the domestic market as import substitutes. Annex 19 further discusses
market aspects.
6.05      The increase in output would require a corresponding expansion
and improvement of the Panuco region transport, packing and processing
facilities as well as related managerial capabilities. No provision has
been made for improving such facilities under the project, because it is
difficult to determine what type and capacity would be required seven to eight
years from now and because it is expected that the private sector will, of its
own initiative, provide these services, as it has done in other parts of Mexico.
Howrever, the processing and marketing facilities for sugar and cotton are con-
sidered adequate. The Government gave an assurance that it would continue to
make its best efforts to promote, through existing organizations or otherwise,
the establishment of agro-industries in or close to the project area.
Farmers' Income
6.06      The project envisages two different types of farmer, the private
farmer and the ejidatario, collectively growing a wide range of crops.
After project implementation, the average private farmer would have 20 ha,
while the average ejidatario would have 15 ha, in both cases the farm units
being fully irrigated. Although the size of unit would be fairly uniform,
individual cropping patterns could and would be very varied depending on
individual preferences, technical skills, and capital resources. Not every
farmer would grow every crop. The majority would probablv grow only a few
of those listed in para 6.03. There would, therefore, be many variations in
cropping between farms. Sample budgets have been prepared which illustrate
some of the many possibilities. These are detailed in Annex 20 and are sum-
marized helow. It should be emphasized that the sample budgets should be
viewed as average possibilities rather than specified circumstances which will
apply in every case.



- 21 -
Area                   Net Value of Production
Farm Type            Without   W,7ith         WTithout      Wlith      Increment
Project   Project        Project      Project
Ha        Ha               ----    Mex$ ------------
General Crops
Private              97         20          85,700       90,200       4,500
Private (Colono)    39          20          36,700       90,200      53,500
Ejidatario           17         15          16,700       68,500      51,800
Exclusive Livestock
Private              97         20          19,900       30,600      10,700
Ejidatario           17         15           3,500       22,900      19,400
The above net income reflects the return per farm family that can be used
for the family living and to pay water charges.
6.07      Water Chares.  The assurances outlined in paragraph 5.06 would
require that water users pay all operation and maintenance costs, estimated
oni the average at Mex$422/ha for the three project areas (see Annex 13), and
as much as practicable of the investment cost with due regard to ability of
the water users to pay.  Mexican law allows water charges to be varied on the
basis of area, volume of water, or crops, but requires that the same basis be
applied to! all users. SRH intends to link the investment cost recovery to
volume of water used and the specific crops grown. Higher rates will be
levied for higher value crops than for lower value crops. MLowever, the actual
charges wil'i only be determined after completion of a detailed socio-economic
study - prescribed by the Federal Water Law.
6.08      Repavment of Investment.  The degree of recovery of the project's
investment costs can onlv be estimated with accuracy once the socio-economic
studies have- been completed.  It depends on (a) the farmer's net income after
neeting all crop production costs, taxes and project oneration and mainten-
ance charges less (h) tie amount he needs to cover his faml]v living costs
and have a reasonable incentive to continue irrigated farming.  Items under
(l) can be calculated but those under (b) are matters of judgement.  The
M'exican authorities have suoggested that a sum equivalent to twice the regioral
miniimnuill salary (texS,7')) would he an appropriate subsistence income.  Look-
ing at t!e result from the point of view of eonnity, tw.ice the regional minimum
sale,ry re; resonts the anp-roximatc- clut-off print for the low-est 40/' of personal
inCOFmes in 1Mt'exico.  M,oreover, it should he noted that both private farmers
and the ej ilatarios in the Panuco project have similar farm sizes and in
botli cases .njov full irrigation, thus being provided wTith similar condi-
tions.  Twice the regional minimum should also provi(le adequate incentives
for irrigated farming by both groups.  Deducting this from projected net
farm incomc yields residual income for water charges which would produce for
the -Government recovery of project investment costs at an interest rate of



- 22 -
6.5` over 50 years or .53  over 50 years if taxes on incremental production
were included. "Towever, during negotiations, the Government representatives
indicated that present Governmental thinking is to recover only the investment
coss -ithcut interest.  On this assumption investment costs could be recovered
in ;-bout 10 years.  However, it should be realised that such a level assumes
that the farmer wouiLd be contributing about 65% of his net income at full
production 'net of all operating costs and operation and maintenance charges).
It is unlikz±-t   that such a contribution could be levied and a more realistic
amount would be nearer half this figure.
VII. BENrEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      At full development, about 12 years after completion of project
works, t'e annual net value of production from the project, valued in
economic terms (expressed in 1973 prices) would be Mex$1,087 million (US$87.0
million), compared to Mex$157 million (US$12.5 million) under future condi-
tions without the project. The useful life of the project facilities would
be almost indefinite, but, for t'he analysis of economic benefits, it has been
assumed at 40 vears. Over this period, the economic rates of return would be
19% for Las Animas, 20% for Pujal Coy, and 22% for Chicayan. To measure tne
project's sensitivity to deviations, several alternatives have been considered:
(a) construction period extended by one year, investment costs increased by
20%, and incremental benefit delayed by one year; (b) benefits decreased by
25%; (c) farm labor costs fully valued at the official wage rate, instead of
being shadow priced; and (d) combined (a) and (b) tests.  None of these alter-
natives, except (d), which is very unlikely, would result in an internal rate
of return of less than 12%, whic'h is considered as the opportunity costs of
capital. Annex 21 gives further details on the project economic evaluation.
7.02       It can be argued that with the relatively high rainfall in the
project area, and by clearing the lands not now cultivated, a higher level
of prodtuction could be achieved from the project area without the need for
irrigation facilities. About 59,000 ha (43%) of the project lands are
still undeveloped and it vould he possible to clear such lands and achieve
comnparable returns as those obtained fron the presently cultivated land.
It is nuestionable, however, whether such development would, in fact, take
rlace in the ahsence of the project, largely because of the pattern of land
ownership.  7rom a national point of view, given the scarcity of land and
the population pressure, government has to exploit all available resources.
Prom the project point of view, it is doubtful whether development can be
based on a 13> 1,ba rainfed farn with th)e erratic rainfall distribution.  In
addition, without the proposed project, no land distribution would be
feasible, since the Federal 1W7ater Law can only be applied to irrigation and
drainiage projects.



- 23 -
7.03       About 8,700 farmers would benefit from the project, 7,150 of
which would be ejidatarios, 850 colonos, and the rest private owners. The
number of private owners would be slightly smaller, and the number of colonos
would remain tne same as under pre-project conditions, while about 5,300
new individuals would become ejidatarios (see paras 3.11, 6.06, and 6.07).
7.04       The project would require about 17,000 man-years of employment
annually; the existing demand is of the order of 2,000 man-years. 1/ The
annual net of tax income of the average ejidatario farm would increase from
about Mex$17,000 to Mex$68,000 at full development, while the expected cor-
responding increase for the average private farm would be from Mex$86,000
to Mex$90,000.
7.05       Since most of the project products are either for export or for
use as import substitutes, for which deficiencies are expected in the future,
the project would make a valuable contribution to Mexico's balance of pay-
ments. It would also provide increased employment and serve the social
needs of the country.
7.06       Additional employment and value added which would result from
crop marketing and processing and other related activities, as well as
secondary benefits due to the acceleration of the general economic activity
in the region as a result of the project construction and operation, were
not quantified, and consequently have not been included in the economic
analysis.
7.07       There are no known water-borne diseases such as bilharzia in the
project areas. Increased use of fertilizers and pesticides as part of the
farming operation could result in some increase of residual quantities of
such chemicals in downstream flows. However, it is not believed these
would exceed acceptable limits.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01       During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that Govern-
ment would:
(a)  not permit the depletion of water flows in the Guayalejo,
Tampaoni or Chicayan Rivers, that would adversely affect
the project, without specific concurrence of the Bank
(para 4.03);
1/    Only direct employment in field activities is considered and 250 working
days per one man-year is assumed.



- 24 -
(b) prepare tender documents for civil works in groups having
as far as practicable a minimum value of Mex$20 million
(para 4.08);
(c) maintain separate project accounts, and promptly submit to
the Bank reports as audited according to Mexican laws (para
4.14);
(d) t3rovide an intensive agricultural extension service for the
four-year implementation period and continue at an adequate
level thereafter (par<. 5.04);
(e) make best effort to make available adequate credit resources
to meet the needs of farmers engaged in the project (para 5.05);
(f) levy charges for water services sufficient to pay operation
and maintenance costs plus as much as was practicable of in-
vestment costs. Such charges would be determined following
socio-economic surveys made periodically, the first of which
would be undertaken by June 30, 1979. The Bank would be given
a reasonable opportunity to comment on conclusions and re-
commendations of the studies (para 5.06);
(g) maket its best efforts to promote the location of agro-indus-
tries in the Panuco Basin (para 6.05).
8.02       Contracts let under international competitive bidding procedures
prior to signing of the loan would be eligible for financing under the loan
up to a maximum of US$3.0 million (para 4.13).
8.03       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$71 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Bank Loans for the Agricultural Sector in Mexico
1.        Since 1961, the Bank has helped finance eight loans in the agricul-
tural sector in Mexico - four for irrigation and four for livestock and
agricultural credit. Pertinent facts concerning the implementation of these
projects are discussed below and a statement of each is given in Table 1.
Loan 275-ME of Jan. 1961 - First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
2.        Rehabilitation work under this project was completed in 1966 in the
four districts over a total irrigated area of about 690,000 ha, or an area
about 20% larger than anticipated. Project costs remained within the
US$110/ha estimates. On-farm development was affected initially by the lack
of credit, which the Government had agreed to provide, but, at the end of
the development period, private bankers and commercial food and marketing
agencies supplied much of the needed financial support and technical assist-
ance, especially to vegetable growers. Water charges are being collected
substantially in accordance with the loan agreement. Agricultural develop-
ment has been considerable, surpassing appraisal expectations, and agro-
business in particular has been making spectacular progress.
Loan 336-ME of April 1963 - Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
3.        Rehabilitation works on 350,000 ha were completed in 1970, and costs
remained in line with the appraisal estimates of US$110/ha. The principal
problems encountered were: (a) leakage from unlined canals; (b) high water-
table in one district; (c) inadequacy of technical assistance to ejidatarios,
and (d) radical changes in the cropping patterns. As complete lining of the
canals would be too costly, determined efforts are being made to reduce water
needs by modifying the cropping pattern and increasing the on-farm water
efficiency. SRH will construct additional drains to reclaim land affected by
high salinity where the watertable is too high. Although research and exten-
sion services have been satisfactorily increased since project completion,
credit to ejidatarios has remained inadequate because of lack of education
and farming experience and cumbersome administrative procedures. As a result,
on-farm improvements and farm machinery services remain inadequate. Cotton
has been largely replaced in the cropping patterns by cereals, fodder crops,
and pasture as a result of technical problems, shifting marketing conditions,
and Government support prices. In spite of all this, the project is expected
to yield the expected benefits. The total irrigated area exceeds the appraisal
estimate, and yields and farm income are considerably higher than those pre-
vailing when the project started. Water charges of Mex$ 100 to 120/ha
(US$8.00 - 9.60) are being collected but no contribution to capital recovery
charges is yet being made. The Government is reviewing the situation (see
para. 4).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Loan 450-ME of May 1966 - Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Region Lagunera
and San Juan del Rio Irrigation Districts
4.        Most project construction works on about 95,000 ha were completed
ahead of time except for land leveling in Lagunera, but costs were about 30%
higher than the appraisal estimate of US$688/ha largely because of foumdation
problems encountered at Las Tortola Dam, changes in plan on San Juan del Rio
and higher unit costs of land leveling. The main problems were lack of ex-
tension services and water shortage, the former being acute in Lagunera where
the farmers themselves were the main obstacle to land leveling. With more
technical assistance, however, such work could be terminated before the
scheduled time. In San Juan, overall water efficiency is only 50%, with
considerable quantities of water being lost from the reservoirs through
seepage. Additional technical assistance would be required to increase water
efficiency above the current 70% if the area is to be fully irrigated. Unlike
the situation in the other projects, credit distribution-particularly for
short-term--has been adequate and has increased significantly in the project
areas, even for ejidatarious. Cotton or high value crops such as vines have
replaced cereals in the cropping pattern and farm incomes have increased
significantly and exceed appraisal estimates by 30%. Operating and maintenance
charges are inadequate and deficits amount to about 35% of the running costs.
No capital recovery charge is being collected. The project should be completed
by the end of 1973 and Government is planning to modify and introduce higher
water rates to allow partial recovery of investment costs. The Government's
position concerning levels of charges for this and other projects is expected
at time of negotiations.
Loan 527-ME of Jan. 1968 - Rio Colorado Project
5.        Estimated costs of this project, which became effective in 1969,
have risen by 30%, largely because of modifications and enlargements of the
development plan. Although construction and land leveling will probably be
completed before the closing date, extension activities will need to be
expanded considerably to ensure successful project implementation. Overall
water efficiency is currently only about 30% (50% in canals and 65% on farms),
and since salinity affects a large portion of the project area, total reclama-
tioii will take more time than anticipated. Adequate credit funds appear to
be available, but small farmers and ejidatarios have difficulties in obtaining
short-term credit due to troublesome administrative procedures. The cropping
pattern has changed significantly, with cotton being replaced by wheat, vege-
tables, and fodder crops. Current water charges pending completion of the
projekt cover only 75% of operating and maintenance costs. These would be
reviewed after the project is complete.
Loans 430-ME, 610-ME, 747-ME, and 910-ME Livestock and Agricultural Credit
Projects
6.        The above four loans, for a total of US$275 million, were signed in
October 1965, June 1969, June 1971 and June 1973, respectively. They support
projects under which loans for agricultural and livestock producers and for
agro-industries are made through private and public banks. These loans are



ANNEX 1
Page 3
eligible for rediscounting through the Fondo. The first three Projects have
been very successful in providing credit and technical services for commercial
farmers and for agro-industries. The Fourth Project, supported by Loan 910-ME
for US$110 million, signed in June 1973, includes an amount of US$25 million
for a credit program to ejidatarios and individual small farmers.
7.        In addition to the above Bank loans, SRH has received 26 loans since
1961 from the Interamerican Development Bank, totaling in excess of US$358
million for irrigation development.



I



ANNEX 1
Table 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Statement of Bank Loans in Agriculture
(as of 1972)
Loan (less
Number       Year           Borrower               Purpose          Cancellations)
1. Fully Disbursed
Nacional
275-ME       1961       Financiera, S.A.       Irrigation                15.00
Nacional
336-ME       1964       Financiera, S.A.       Irrigation                11.35
Nacional              Agricultural
430-ME       1965       Financiera, S.A.       Credit                    25.00
Nacional              Agricultural
610v-ME      1969       Financiera, S.A.       Credit                    65.00
2. Still Being Disbursed
Nacional
450-ME       1966       Financiera, S.A.       Irrigation                19.00
Nacional
5274E 1R968             Financiera, S.A.       Irrigation                25.00
Nacional              Agricultural
74741E       1971       Financiera, S.A.       Credit                    75.00
Nacional              Agricultural
110-liE      1973       Financiera, S.A.       Credit                   110.00
Septeonber 26, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Soils and Topography
1.        The soils of the project area are predominantly heavy alluvial of
fine texture and located on a flat coastal plain of the Panuco River Basin.
They occur along the terraces and flood plains of the main tributaries of the
Panuco River, such as the Guayalejo (Las Animas), Coy, Choy, Tampaon and
Mactezuma (Pujal Coy); and Chicayan (Chicayan). Soils are generally deep with
good internal drainage. Their parent materials are limestone, sandstone, and
schist, and the general level of salinity is low. Most of the year, the water
table remains deep, except in small areas inundated during periods of excep-
tional heavy rains or when hurricane conditions are present.
2.        The main deficiency of project soils is linked to their fine and
heavy texture. This point has important bearing on managing this type of
soil under irrigation conditions. In general, soils are fertile and well
adapted to cultivation of a wide range of crops. Current cropping intensity
is of the order of 57%, with equal areas devoted to rainfed annual crops and
dry farming pastures for beef; there are at present only about 6,000 ha of
irrigated crops such as vegetables, sugarcane, and fruit trees.
3.        Following the system of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, lands have
been classified as follows:
Total
Land                                                        Net
Classes      Las Animas      Pujal Coy      Chicayan      Irrigable      Percentage
---------------- --------(ha)   ----- -- -%------                  )
I          30,317          15,858         4,859         51,034           37
II           16,282         52,559         9,609         78,450           57
III            1,434          3,595         2,532          7,561            6
Total net
irrigable      48,033         72,012        17,000        137,045           100
Percentage         35             53             12            100
4.        Project lands lie between 5 m and 60 m above sea level, having a
general gradient between 0 and 12 m per km to the sea. Predominant relief is
uniformly flat, occasionally interrupted by small areas of undulating land
or by small isolated hills. Some ponding occurs during the wet season, but
because the project soils have good internal drainage, they dry out in a
relatively short time. Generally, the area is high enough that there is no
tidal effect or salt water intrusion.






ANNEX 3
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Precipitation Pattern
Table 1 shows the monthly rainfall pattern for the meteorological
station at the Town of Panuco as being typical of the area. It illustrates
the variations in the rainfall and shows the normal dry season extending from
November through May and the normally wet season June through October. The
year 1955 is not necessarily typical but it does show the vagaries of the
rainfall pattern. The total rainfall figure for that year is one of the
highest, but 439 mm fell in July and 958 mm in September, thus 1,397 mm of the
total of 1,544 mu fell in only two months. The September record fall was
followed by 8 mm in October.



Fk:UCO IlRST-STAGE PRUJECT
-rvciptation Pdttern at Station Panuco,Veracruz
(in mm)
YEAR      JAN       FEB       MtAR      APR      MAY       JIUN      JUL      AUG       SEP       OCT       NOV       DEC         ANNUAL
1943      71.0        0       16.0     45.5      12.5      95.0      77.8     45.6      52.5      6.5       31.0      53.5       506.9
1944      11.5      5.5          0     41.0      21.8    136.7      57.6    214.0    382.0    58.5          41.0     50.4       1020.0
1945      24.5        0    0               0      2.5      40.8      -1.0     -1.0      -1.0    -1.0-       -1.0      37.6         -1.0
1946      38.5    27'0         1 5      Th.0     38.0    131.5      42.0    119.5    184.0   158.5          46.5      17.0       842.0
1947      26.0    15.0         7.0      12.5     41.6      35.0      25.0    397.0    234.0   148.5        107.0     40.0      188.6
1948      44.5      8.0        4.5         0     91.5    128.0    304.0       34.0      97.0    81.0        14.0      16.0       822.5
r   1949      52.o    39.0           0       4.0     33.0      54.0      22.0      76.0    105.5    16.5         4.0      96.0        502.0
1950      14.0      6.5       36.0     29.0      68.0    107.5       48.0     34.0      60.5   133.7         3.0      4.0        544.2
1951      14.7        0          0        0      16.0    320.0      56.0    226.0    197.0   171.0          39.0      18.0      1057.7
1952       7.0        0          0      8 .0      8.0    329.5    283.5    400.0    313.5    14.5          243.5         0      1667.5
1953         0    10.0         2.5    1;2.0       1.0      39.5    151.5      32.0      87.0    52.5         6.0      5.0        479.0
1954         0    15.0         1.0     37.0         0      89.5    283.5      94.5    293.5   354.0          8.0       6.5      1182.5
1955       7.5      4.0        2.0       i        4.0       6.5    439.0      84.0    957.5       8.0       26.0         0      1544.5
1956         0        0        3.0     56.5      46.0    160.0    132.5       50.5    379.5    35.0         36.5     20.5        920.0
1957      20.0    62.5        100     65.5      90.5      28,0    105.''     40,5      68.0    46.5         8.0      15.5       566.0
1958      50.0    21.0         5.0         0     66.0    350.0    382.3       33.5   167.0    404.5         35.5      29.5      1544.5
1959      43.5    75.0           0     45.0        2.0    216.0      52.0     39.5      6.0    178.0        54.0         0        711.0
1960         0      2.0          0       1.0     47.5      26.5    169.5    106.5   121.0        93.0       43.0      12.5       622.5
1961      66.0      7.5        5.0         0     48.5    144.0    202.0       45.5    83.5       61.0       33.5      15.0        711.5
1962       3.5        0        4.0     82.5      34.0    310.0       52.0      16.0   232.0      41.0       65.0      39.0       879.0
1963       9.0      9.0        3.0         0     90.0    126.0       69.0     82.0    82.0       24.0          0      96.0        590.0
1964      21.0    14.0         3.0     24.0    187.5       69.0      18.0     19.0   152.5        5.0       59.0      14.0       586.0
1965      37.0    13.0           0      10.0      4.5    155,0    110.0    135.0   243.0         62.5       13.0      27.0        810.0
1966      50.5    48.0         9.0      32.0    108.0    313.0       36.5      73.0    66.0    753.5        12.0.    21.0        1522.5
1967      35.0    15.5        50.0       3.0     41.6      66.5      14.5    224.0   633.0       58.0       90.0      16.5       1247.6
1968      52.5    20.5        45.0     46.0      25.0    162.0       80.5    169.5    85.5       85.5       45.0      80.0        897.0
1969      40.0    13.5        16.0     44.0      10.5    133.0    389.0    275.0   275.0         37.5       41.0       8.0       1282.5
0 O      17.0    53.0           0         0     26.0    415.0    190.0    119.0   279.0         49.5        7.5      17.0       1173.0
1971      15.5      3.0          0         0     55.0    257.0       54.5    117.5   151.5    136.5         32.5      25.0        848.0
NOTE:  Minus one indicates absence of Data
AVERAGE  26.1    lb.S         7.7      27.0     42.1    153.3    137.4    118.2   213.9    116.9           40.9      26.9        934.6
M\8XIMUM  71.0               50, SO.('  9)2.0    187.5       415.0     439.0    400.0   957.5    753.5    243.5      96.0       1667.5
*jXl"!l   O        u          0   0              0       6.5      14.5      16.0     6.0       5.(          0         0        479.0



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
The Ejidal System, Water Law, and Land Tenure
General
1.        There are three classes of land holders in the project area:  private
small holders, colonos and ejidos. The colonos were settled under a program,
now discontinued, for colonization of federal lands. The individual colono
obtains title to his allotment of land after he has made full payment to the
Government under the colonization agreement. In general, the colonos living
in the project area have discharged their repayment obligation and now have
title. They are, therefore, the same as private small holders. Ejidos are
made up of individuals known as ejidatarios who have specific rights as members
of the ejido. Two recent laws, the Agrarian Reform Law 1/ and the Federal
Water Law 2/, define lands which may be expropriated by the Government for
Agrarian Reform purposes or to establish new irrigation districts and the
rights of the private holders to retain lands. Both laws are operable in the
project area.
The Ejido System and the Agrarian Reform Law
2.        The ejido system was officially established as a tenure system by
the Agrarian Reform Law of 1915, under whose provisions existing rural com-
munities were confirmed in their ownership rights and ejidos were created and
endowed with land, water, and all the natural resources within a demarcated
area. The ejido, as the community, is the legal proprietor of the land, but
it cannot transfer, rent, or mortgage it. Land can be withdrawn from an ejido
only for reason of public use, in which case compensation must be paid (para 4).
The ejido may operate as a communal farm, with the members being similar to
shareholders in a corporation, or it can elect to parcel out its land to its
members on a pro rata share. In this case, the individual ejidatario manages
his own holding as though it were his own, although he has use of the land
only and cannot mortgage, sell, or rent it. He may pass on his rights to one
designated successor, such as his spouse, child, or some one financially
dependent on him, who must then accept the financial obligation of supporting
the dependents of the original member. An ejidatario loses his right (a) if
he or his famf;ly does not work the land allotted personally for two consecutive
years or if he does not perform his required service to the communal farm;
(b) if he has acquired his rights by succession and does not financially sup-
port the dependents of the deceased; (c) if he uses ejidal land for unlawful
purposes; (d) if he has interest in other ejidal land; or (e) if he is con-
victed of growing narcotic plants. If an ejidatario unit becomes vacant, it
is realloted by the ejido to an eligible individual.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        Membership in an ejido is entirely free and no one can be forced to
joir. Any group of individuals can petition the Government to form a new
ejido, provided the prospective members can meet the eligibility requirements
for ejidatarios. These call for the candidate to:
(a) be Mexican by birth, over 16 years old or of any age
if he or she has a dependent family;
(b) have resided in the population center filing the re-
quest for at least six months;
(c) agree to work the land personally;
(d) not own in his own name any land equal to or greater
than 10 ha of irrigated land or 20 ha of dry land;
(e) not own capital in industry or commerce exceeding
Mex$ 10,000 or agricultural capital exceeding
Mex$ 20,000; and
(f) not have been convicted for planting marijuana or
narcotics.
After a petition is filed, DAAC must review all lands within a prescribed
distance of the petitioning population center to see if land can be made
available. Private lands may not be expropriated for purposes of forming
ejidos if the individual holding does not exceed the following limits:
(a) 100 ha of irrigated or first class watered land;
(b) 150 ha utilized for cottQn if irrigation takes place
through flooding or pumping;
(c) 300 ha in plantation crops such as sugarcane; and
(d) an area sufficient to maintain 500 head of cattle
or the equivalent in other livestock.
Land that exceed these limits and certain federal lands can be taken, with
compensation, but private owners are entitled to retain buildings, or improve-
ments such as wells.
4.        DAAC is responsible for managing ejido affairs at the Government
level and for applying the Agrarian Reform Law. This law specifies operational
procedures for the ejidos and most importantly grants legal status to it so
that it is eligible for credit. Among other things, the law has the following
provisions:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(a) ejidatarios shall pay a property tax but it cannot ex-
ceed 5% of the value of marketed production; the tax
liability is binding on the ejido and all its members;
(b) each ejidatario is entitled Po a houselot without
charge not exceeding 2,500 m in size. He is obliged
to occupy the lot and build on it, with DAAC supply-
ing suitable plans and technical assistance;
(c)  ejidos may be subdivided in specific cases where tech-
nical studies indicate that subdivision is appropriate;
(d)  ejidal property can be expropriated for public purposes.
SRH is specifically mentioned as having that right when
lands are needed for hydraulic works. However, the in-
demnity paid must be set aside to acquire equivalent
lands where the agrarian group can be reestablished;
(e) two or more ejidatarios can agree to work their parcels
jointly;
(f) ejidos are entitled to preference in all government
activities such as technical assistance, provision
of credit, and purchase of produce; and
(g)  ejidos using water belonging to an irrigation district
must pay the usual water charges for that district.
The Federal Water Law
5.        This law complements the Agrarian Reform Law and sets the procedures
which are applicable in developing the nation's water resources, specifically
invoking the Agrarian Reform Law in cases involving ejidal or community pro-
perties. The law also does the following:
(a) Establishes prioriLties for use of water as:
(i) domestic purpose;
(ii) urban public services;
(iii) cattle water:Lng;
(iv) irrigation;
a.   ejidal and communal lands;
b.   private:Ly owned lands;
(v)  industrial purposes;
a.   electric generation for public use;
b.   other uses;



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(vi) aquatic culture;
(vii) electric generation for private use;
(viii) soil leaching; and
(ix) other uses;
(b) Establishes procedures for setting up new irrigation
districts and requires that all land within the bound-
aries be expropriated. It further requires DAAC to
define the rights of ownership by ejidos whithin the
district;
(c) States that when the irrigation district is declared
for expropriation, landholders must prove their rights
of ownership for compensation, which may be in cash or
in kind. In the latter case, the payment may comprise
not more than 20 ha of irrigated land with any balance
paid in cash or credited to the persons concerned for
payment of water charges;
(d) Requires DAAC to propose new holding sizes for ejida-
tarios if ejido lands are included in an irrigation
district;
(e) Allows for the Federal Government to declare the size
of irrigation unit to be assigned to small private
landowners or to colonos. The area may never exceed
20 ha (the Agrarian Reform Law provision of a minimum
allotment per ejidatario of 10 ha of irrigated land
is mentioned, (para 3d);
(f)  Entitles each user to his pro rata share in times of
water shortage; and
(g) Allows double cropping without implying any permanent
right to such use when there is surplus water.
Land Tenure
6.        At about the time the Comision de Estudios del Rio Panuco was
established in 1959, the Government prohibited the granting of any further
permanent rights to private individuals to use waters of the Panuco Basin.
Although several private pumps have been installed since then to pump water
from tributaries of the Panuco, no one enjoys permanent rights nor can in-
dividual owners claim that their lands are irrigated in the sense that it
would exempt their holdings from expropriation under the Agrarian Reform Law.
There is no existing Irrigation District covering any portion of the project
lands. Thus, as the Government establishes the three new Irrigation Districts,
one for each area, all private and colonos lands would be expropriated for
district purposes, with compensation either in cash or in land. Reallotment



ANNEX 4
Page 5
of lands would be made to present private owners and to colonos who choose
that methods of compensation for their present holding. The reallotment would
not exceed the size of the present holding or 20 ha, whichever is smaller
and the allottee would be required to pay the appraised value of the land.
In most cases, the value of the irrigated allotment would exceed the value
of the non irrigated present holding and the allottee would be required to pay
the difference. The new allotment does not necessarily have to include any
of the land previously held by the individual except that cognizance must be
given to established permanent crops such as orchards and to improvements.
7.        Private owners of land in the reservoir basins of the Las Animas
and Chicayan Projects could elect to be paid in cash for the value of their
present holding, or, if they prefer, they could choose to be compensated by
an allotment of land in the service area of the project in the same sense
as a private owner now living in the proposed service area. Ejidal property
lying in the reservoirs could be expropriated by SRH if necessary. However,
there is only one ejido involved and that in the basin of the Las Animas
Reservoir. It has elected to voluntarily sell its lands to SRI and be re-
located in the irrigated area.
8.        Ejidal land lying in the proposed irrigated areas would not be
subject to expropriation. The ejidos would, however, be reorganized as allow-
ed by the law and the holding per ejidatario adjusted to meet the new allot-
ment of 15 ha per ejidatario. Lands made available from the private and
colonos holdings would be used only to enlarge present ejidos or to form new
ones.
9.        Table 1 shows the land tenure system as it exists at present
in the proposed irrigated areas and as it is expected to be under the
project. The table is based on the assumption that private owners in the
reservoir areas would opt for cash compensation and will not seek an allotment
of irrigated land. If any of the private owners do request compensation by
an allotment of irrigated land, the number of private owners under the "with"
project conditions would increase. The table also assumes that some of the
private holders on the Pujal Coy project having very small holdings would
elect cash compensation rather than seek to keep their less than 20-ha hold-
ings under project conditions.  The table is further based on the Government's
recommendation of 20-ha allotments, the maximum allowed under the Federal
Water Law, to private holders and a 15-ha allotment per ejidatario to ejidos.
This size exceeds the minimum allowed by the law of 10 ha per ejidatario and
has been recommended by the Government in order to establish the ejidatarios
at a reasonable level of living.






ANNEX 4
Table 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Land Tenure
Present Situation                           With Project
Las Animas                No.        Ha    Ave. Size Ha           No.        Ha      Ave Size Ha
Private Owners            230     26 7  7      115                230      4,3°0        20.0
Colonos                    36       3,572        99                36        720        20.0
Ejidatarios               953     17 924        18.8            287    42,713           15.0
1,219                    39.5           3,113    48,033         1
Pujal Coy
Private Owmers            277      29,742      107                207      4,140        20.0
Colonos                   803     29,115         36.3             803    16,060         20.0
F.1idatarios              818     13,155         16.1           3 45h    51,812         15.0
1, 97      72,012        3 6072,012                             16.1
Chicayan
Private Owners            248     16,718         67.5             248      4,213        17.0
Ejidatarios               102         282         2.8             852    12,787         15.0
3       17,000                        1,100    17,000
Project
Private Owners            755      72,997        96.4             685    12,953         18.9
"olonos                   839     32,687        39.0              839    16,780         20.0
Ejidatarios            1 873      31,361        16.7            7 153   107,312         15.0
3,                                                              7 137,045 8
September 26, 1973






ANNEX 5
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUICO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Project Works
Existing Irrigation Facilities
1.          There are a few small private pumps installed in each of the
three project areas, but owners have only temporary rights to pump fromi' the
rivers. All such installations would be supplanted by project facilities
and the equipment salvaged by the owner.
Las Animas
2.          The basic water supply for Las Animas would be a direct gravity
diversion of water from the Guayalejo River into a feeder canal, ending in
the Las Animas storage reservoir.  Main canals would head at each end of
the storage reservoir dam to distribute water to the irrigation system on
each side of the Guayalejo River.
3.          Guayalejo Diversion Dam.  This str;-cture would be a concrete
gravity type located across the Guayalejo River about 8 km northwest of
the city of Mante. Radial gates would be installed to control water
levels and when fully opened would be capable of passing floods of 3,500 m3
down the Guayalejo River. I'he feeder canal would be located on the right
bank and discharges into the canal would be controlled by four radial
gates. Sufficient drill holes have been sunk to explore foundation condi-
tions and to prove the suitability of the site.
4.          Feeder Canal.  This canal would be 16.8 km long and excavated in
earth its entire length. It would be concrete lined, with a capacity of
100 m3/sec.
5.          Las Animas Storage Dam.  This structure would be constructed across
the normally drv arroyo of the same name. All the water to be stored would
be delivered l.v feeder canal fron the Guayalejo River. This site was chosen
over an alternative site on the Guayalejo River as it would inundate less
agricultural land and the ratio of land benefited to the land taken out of
production due to reservoir construction would be much greater. The dam
would be 7.8 km long,, with a maximum height of about 28 in above foundation
and have a zonedi earth fill with a central impermeable zone.  Two auxiliary
dikes would be requiredl to close low places on the periphery of the reservoir



ANNEX 5
Page 2
and would he smi.iar in design to the main dam.  The spillwiy would be an
overflow concrete crest 300 m long with a capacity of 500 m. Isec discharging
into an arroyo leading back to the Guayalejo River. This spillway capacity,
together with use of about 70 Mm3 of storage capacity, would control the
,.a.m.ximuum Drobable flood having a peak of 2,500 mi/sec. Operation of the
reservoir would be restricted to ensure that 70 1Mm3 of space is available
from June to Nove(gber.  Irrigation outlets, with top seal radial gates,
would be installed at each end of the dam to serve the two main canals.  Tile
reservoir would cover about 9,300 ha and have a total capacity! of 600 jqm3
of whish 62 Mm - is dead storage and for sediment accumulation, leaving
538 Mm  of usable storage.  Sufficient drilling has been accomplished to
explore the foundation conditions to prove the suitability of t-he site and
to locate adequate materials for the embankment, An access road to the
site from the Daved highway Tampico-Mante has been constructed by SRh under
a negotiated contract. Houses would be constructed at the dam for uise of
reservoir operators.
6.           Ninety 'families live in the reservoir area, 87 being ejidatarios
and three private owner families. Ownership is by 21 private owners and
one ejido. The ejido has elected to voluntarily sell its land to SRH and be
relocated in the irrigated area.  Sixteen of the private owners have elected
to receive compensation in cash and the balance have not made a decision as
yet.
7.           irrigation and Drainage Facilities.  Two main canals heading
at each end of Las Animas dam would feed the irrigationr distribution system.
The right bank canal would be 53 km long and the one on the left bank, 126
km long. The right bank canal would hiave an initial capacity of 24 m3/sec and
that on the left, 25 m3/sec. The left bank canal would have a siphon crossing
the Guayalejo River to serve about 18,700 ha on the left bank of the Guayalejo.
The main canals would have turnouts to secondary laterals, whicbh  in turn.
would feed the tertiary system.  A turnout and measuring device would serve
each 60-ha block.  Estimates of cost have been based on concrete lining
throughout, but. further soil tests would be made as part of final designs,
and lining would be eliminated in those reaches not requiring it.  A complete
drainage system to remove excess surface water would ',e constructed. Open
drains would have a minimum depth of 1.5 m, while larger drai.ns would be at
least 2 m deep.
8.           Roads andi Complementary Works.  Roads would be constructed along
ai ecolnals andc drains for operation and maintenance purposes.  This network
would '.e su-plemented with connections to form a logical road system.  About
"C; km of roads would bci    a part of the canal and drain system and 85 km
would he constructed specifically to make connections.  About 12 houses for
ditch riders would be constructed and 183 km of telephone system installed
to assist in the operation and maintenance of the project. A project head-
quarters located at Los Aztecas is under construction under a contract
negotiateCd by SAUIw.



AiiNEX 5
Page 3
i.        Land Preparation.  About 22,700 ha would require clearing of the
native brush. Approximately 7,000 of this is on the left bank and 15,700
on the right bank.  All 48,000 ha in the project would be leveled.
Pujal Coy
11).      The water supply for Pujal Coy would be by gravity diversion from
tnle Tampaon River, effected by a diversion dam on that stream to direct water
into a feeder canal ending at a pumping plant. The pumping plant would have
two sets of oumps discharging into two small regulating reservoirs located at
different elevations. The lower reservoir would feed the main canal serving
lands adjacent to the Tampaon River, while the higher one would feed the main
canal serving lands north towards Las Animas. One relift pumip would be re-
quired to pump water from the north main canal into a lateral serving a higher
area.
11.       Diversion Dam San Jose del Limon.  This diversion dam would be of
a type used very successfully in Mexico and would consist essentially of an
(35 m long overflow section constructed of compacted earth material protected
by a heavy grouted rock fill. The upstream face would have a slope of about
3.33 to 1 up to the top of a concrete wall forming the crest of the dam. Down-
stream of the wall, there would be a vertical drop of 1 m to a long apron laid
on a 9:1 slope back to stream bed. Concrete sills would be constructed at
about 9 f, intervals to control erosion in tne apron. At the left of tne dam,
a sluiceway controlled by radial gates would be constructed to pass sediments
downstream to the Tampaon River and avoid, as much as possible, diverting them
into the feeder canal. The gate structure for the intake into the feeder
canal would be located on the left abutment and the intake to the canal would
be from the sluiceway structure.
12.       Diversion Canal.  This canal would be 4.43 km long and have a
designed capacity of 60 m3/sec without sediment or 50 m3/sec with approximately
0.5 m of sediment deposited in the bottom of the canal. The canal would
start in a fairly deep cut of about 14 m, gradually reducing to about 8 m where
it crosses the Laguna San Jose del Limon, then increasing again to about 23 m
at the pumping plant.  Berms would be constructed on the slopes in the deep
cuts to insure stability of tthe cut banks.
13.       Pum ing Plant.  The main pumping plant would be constructed at
thc end of the feeder canal and would hiouse the two sets of pumps feeding the
regulating reservoirs. Tihe exact number and characteristics of the pumps
would be determined ill the final design, but estimates are based on use of
pump units w7ith a hydraulic capacity of 6 m3/sec each.  Seven pumps, plus
one standby pump, would serve the nigher reservoir and would be equipped
with 3,500 h,p electric motors. The other two units, equipped with 2,200 hp
electric motors, would serve the lower reservoir. Electric power would be
brouglht to tlle plant by a new line from an existing high tension line about
15 km north of the pumping plant. The Commission of Electricity and SRiI
would share the cost of constructing the line and installing the substation
equipment.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
14.       Discharge Canals.  Steel pipes would carry the pump discharge
up to the elevation of the discharge canals to the high and low reservoir.
These would be lined canals, having the following characteristics:
Low Canal                  High Canal
Length                       800 n                      170 m
33
Capacity                     2 m /sec                 42 m /sec
15.       Regulating Reservoirs.  The lower reservoir would be formed by
a diike 710 m long and approximately 16 m high above foundation, containing
260,000 1113 of fill. The total capacity of the reservoir would be 2.0 Mm3,
of which 1.85 11m3 would be usable.  The elevation of the normal water surface
is about 25 m above sea level, giving a static pump lift of about 18 m from
the water surface in the feeder canal. The upper reservoir would be formed
by two dikes having a total length of 1650 m, with a maximum neight above
foundation of 18.5 m. The total capacity would be 6.5 tnm3, of which 5.5 !MIm3
would be usable. The elevation of the normal water surface would be 37.5 m
above sea level, giving a static pump lift of about 30.5 m from the water
surface in the feeder canal.
16.       hIain Canals.  The main canal serving the area along the Tampaon
River would receive its water from the lower regulating reservoir and hiave a
length of 83 k'M. The main canal serving the northern portion of the area
would derive its water from the upper regulating reservoir and would have a
total length of 99 km. At station km 40,000 of this canal there would be a
pumping plant containing three units of 6.0 Im3/sec capacity each, with a
dynamic head of 28.0 m to serve the 60 km long main canal, Rebombeo Chapaco.
All the main canals would be concrete lined unless later investigations showed
thiat lining could be eliminated in certain reaches.
17.       IrriQation and Drainage System.  The mqain canals would supply water
to the secondary and tertiary irrigation canals, whiich would then distribute it
to approximately 60-ha blocks where turnouts and measuring devices would be
installed. The estimates assume a wholly concrete-lined system, but further
investigation may prove this to be unnecessary. The total length of the
distribution canals would approximate 625 km. About 950 km of drains would
be constructed to remove excess surface water. These would vary from 1.5
to 4.5 mi in depth and would serve to return drain water to the rivers or
natural water courses leading to the rivers.
18.       Roads and Complementary Works.  Roads for operation and maintenance
purposes and for farmer use would be constructed along all of the larger canals
and drains. This network would be supplemented by connecting roads to give a
complete road network, all of which would be paved or surfaced to provide
dependable all-weather use. Altogether there would be about 980 km of internal
roads in the Pujal Coy area. Seventeen houses for ditchriders and three for
the pumping plant personnel would be constructed and about 170 km of telephone
system would be installed. Operating headquarters would be located at Lbano.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
19.       Land Preparation.  The total area to be cleared is about 28,250
ha, of wlhich 2,900 ha is medium, 11,300 na light, and the balance merely in
bush. All 72,000 ha of the area would be leveled. About 23,800 ha would
require smoothing only, about 24,400 ha light leveling, and 23,800 considerable
eartn movement.
Chicayan
20.       The basic water supply for Chicayan would be the flows of the
Chicayan River, as regulated by Paso de Piedras dam and reservoir. Main
canals would head at each end of the dam to irrigate the lands on both sides
of the Chicayan River below the dam.
21.       Paso de Piedras Dam and Reservoir.  Only preliminary designs have
been prepared and final designs could change details of the structure from
those described. The dam would be 2.076 km long and have a maximum height
above the present stream bed of 25 m. ihowever, there will be considerable
excavation for foundation of the dam and the maximum height above foundation
may be of tile order of 31 m. The preliminary design calls for the dam to be
constructed primarily of readily available impermeable material, with a
filter near the center of the dam. The filter would outlet near the downstream
toe. Upstream and downstream slopes would be protected with riprap. About
1.8 1.1m  of fill material would be required.  The spillway would be located
in the dam at a point where the fill is very shallow and where the spillway
structure could be founded on the original ground. Present plans call for
a concrete ogee crest with ten 8 m by Oi m radial gates to control discharges.
The ogee crest would lead to a stilling pool from which flows would return
to tile Chicayan River channel. The spillway capacity would ue about 3,000 m3/sec,
whicih, with use of the flood control space, would accomodate the maximum
probable flood estimated to ihave a peak of 5,000 m3/sec. The two irrigation
outlets would be located in natural ground near each end of the dam and would
consist of an upstream gate structure witli an emergency and service gate and
a concrete pipe through the dam. The concrete pipe would be cast in place
in a deep cut, and then the dam would be completed as a fill over tile pipe.
Dry season flows of the Chicayan River are very small and the schedule would
call for construction during a two-year period. Preparatory work would be
done in one dry season, with the main fill placed during the second season,
thius avoiding any expensive means of handling floods during construction.
The reservoir would inundate about 9,000 hla and have a total capacity of
570 h3 made up as follows:
Dead storage and sediment           120 rM3
Irrigation                          340 Mm
Flood Control                       110 Mm
Total               57OT'



AN4NEX 5
Page 6
22.       There are 160 families living in the reservoir area on 154
n)rivately owned blocks. No ejidatarios are involved. So far, 30 owners
nave registered their ownership. Two have decided to take payment in
cash and 28 have elected to receive payment in irrigated land on the project.
It is not known now, what the others will do.
23.       Access Road and Construction Camp.  The dam site can be reached
only by jeepable roads in the dry season. SKUi, however, has started con-
struction of a 25 km all-weather road running from the Tempoal-Tampico road
to the site, and it will be the main connection between the project area and
the Aexican highway network serving the balance of the country.  To provide
facilities for construction of the dam and to later serve as operating head-
quarters for the area, a permanent camp is being constructed nearby. Both
the access road and camp are being built under contracts negotiated by SRIi
witlh local contractors.
24.       Irrigation and Drainage System.  The main canal serving the right
bank would have an initial capacity of 9 m3/sec, a length of 52 km, and
serve 8,057 ha. The left bank main canal would have an initial capacity of
10 m3/sec, a length of 50 km, and serve 8,943 ha. The irrigation distribution
system would consist of secondary and tertiary laterals, totaling about 148 km
in length. Turnouts and measuring devices would serve about 60-ha units
eacn. Present plans call for the entire system to be lined with concrete
but further study may indicate that sorae or all of the lining can be eliminated.
Drainage of the area is relatively good, but the project would improve the
natural water courses and supplement them with constructed drains to remove
excess surface water. The total length of drains would be about 127 km and
they would vary in depth from 1.5 m to 2.5 m.
25.       Roads and Complementary Works.  About 261 km of roads would be
constructed along irrigation and drainage canals to serve operation and
maintenance purposes and for farmer use, and 12 km connecting roads would
be built to complete a logical network. Seven houses for ditchriders would
be constructed, 65 km of telephone system would be installed, and sub-district
offices would be built within the irrigated area at locations some distance
from the .leadquarters at the dam site.
26.       Land Preparation.  Clearing would be required on 7,250 ha, 5,440
ot wnicli has medium cover and the balance just bush.  All lands would be
smoothed and leveled.  About 8,5U0 ha would require light leveling, 5,100 ha
medium, and 3,400 ha rather extensive work.



ANNEX 6
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Construction Schedule
June
Calendar Year         1973         197)4        1975         1976         1977        1978         1979         1980
Las Animas
Access Road
Construction Canap
Diversion Dam
Feeder Canal
Las Animas Reservoir            =-
Main Canals                  =                  =        =      =
Irrigation System
Drainage System==
Roads
Ditchrider Houses                                           ====
Telephone System
District Offices                                             ==
Land Clearing and
Leveling--=
Equipment                ==-
Rights of Way
PLAYEPA (1Extension)-==
Diversion Dam
Yeeder Canal
Purping Plants
Regulating feservoirs
Main Canals
Trrigation System             ===
D)rainage Systerm===
Rcads
Of fices
Titchrider Houses                     ----=== =
Telephone System                          ==
La,nci Dearing andi
Leveling
Eouiprment-=
Rights of Way
PLAMIPA (Exi:tension)
',ica yan
Paso ce P'iedra Damn==
Main Canals--==
Irrigation System
Drainage System--==
Road System                           =--=     =
Ditchrider Houses
District Offices
Telephone System
Land Clearing and
Leveling
Access Road
Construction, Sarg=
tquipment                =                      -
Rights of Way            =      == =-
PLAMEPA (Extension)                   ==
February 4, 1974



i



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST - STAGE PROJECT
Water Availability, Requirements, Utilization, and Quality
Las Animas
1.        Water Availability.  The basic water supply for Las Aiimas would be
from the uncontrolled flows of the Guayalejo River. Available water would be
diverted into a feeder canal leading to the Las Animas reservoir where it
would be regulated to supply the canal systems.
2.        Records of flows of the Guayalejo River are available at the
Majiscatzin gage, about 5 km below the diversion site, from 1954 to the
present. The flow at the gage has averaged about 2,300 Mm3 annually. All
this water cannot be diverted as about 5 m3/sec is required for downstream
uses primarily in the Tampico area and diversions are limited by the feeder
canal capacity.  Studies were made of divertable water with various canal
capacities ranging from 50 to 150 m3/sec, and 100 m3/sec was chosen. Amounts
divertable with that canal capacity vary from a low of 788 'Im3 in 1962 to
about 1,600 .m3 in 1972.
3.        Water Requirements.  These were computed by the modified Blaney-
Criddle method, using factors found locally applicable. The net annual irriga-
tion depth required is 0.71 m.  Using 75% as conveyance efficiency and 70%
farm irrigation efficiency, overall efficiency is about 50% of water diverted.
ThIus, the gross requirement is 1.37 m or 13,700 m3/ha.  For the total area of
48,000 ha, water requirements are then 660 Nm3 per year.
4.        Water Utilization.  Studies were made of the operation of Las Animas
.eservoir for tne period August 1954 through 1972, using the water divertable
fron the Guayalajo River by a 100 m3/sec feeder canal as the supply and con-
sidering tne evaporation losses of the reservoir and the irrigation
requirements as demarids. The useable capacity of the reservoir was taken as
538 :1m3, considering 62 :i13 of tLie total 600 h 3 capacity as being for dead
storage and sedimant accumulation.  In only one of the years of study was the
supply inadequate to meet the full irrigation requirements and the deficit
would hiave amounted to about 100 710m3, or 18% of that year's requirements.
This sihortage is considered tolerable and the water supply adequate.
Quality.  Tests of the Guayalejo water sihows thiat it lIas a total
salt content varying between 700 and 820 ppm, with SAR about 0.8.  This
would class it as medium salinity water with low sodium hazard and make it
suitable for irrigation use.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Pujal Coy
6.        Water Availablility.  Pujal Coy depends on pumping the unregulated
flows of the Tampaon River. There is no stream gauging station at the diver-
sion site. Flows available for diversion have been estimated from flows re-
corded at stations on two tributaries upstream, at Ballesimi and at Pujal.
Approximately 70% of the flows at the diversion site originate in the Tampaon
River, nmeasured at the Pujal station and tile balance from the Coy River, meas-
ured at Ballesimi. Average flows passing the diversion point are about 5,200
iAn3 annually.
7.        Water Requirements.  Since there is no storage available, the water
supply adequacy must be judged by the flows available in periods of low flow.
The cropping pattern chosen for the area takes into account that the lowest
flows occur in April-May, at the end of the dry season, and planting times
have been adjusted so that the peak water use period does not fall in these
months. The net irrigation requirement, determined by the modified Blaney
Criddle method, using temperature and precipitation records at Panuco and
Pujal, is about 0.72 m net and 1.38 m gross, or 13,800 m3/ha. The gross re-
quirement assumes 75% conveyance efficiency and 70% for farm efficiency. The
total requirement for the 72,000 ha is about 990 ^tm3.
8.        Utilization.  The adequacy of the water supply to meet irrigation
reciuirements has been judged by comparing flows available by 10-day periods
to meet the concurrent irrigation requirement. During the study period extend-
ing for 19 years from 1954 through 1972, only 36 of the 684 periods analyzed
showed some deficiency, but none of these deficiencies exceeded 10% of the
requirements for the month, or 1%* of the annual.  Thus, it is concluded that
the water supply is adequate to meet project requirements.
9.        Quality.  Analysis of water at the diversion site shows total salt
content varying from 600 to 1,200 ppm and SAR from 0.8 to 2.9. It is thus
concluded that the water iias a medium salinity but low sodium hazard and is
quite suitable for irrigation use.
Chicayan
10.       Water Availability.  Chicayan would obtain its water supply from
tne Chicayan River as regulated by a storage reservoir to be constructed at
tlae Paso de Piedras site. A guagiag station was established upstream of the
m  site aind started operation on July 5, 1969, so that the direct record
of flows available for use is very snort. An estimate of flows at the dam
site [or tile period 1944 to 1969 was made by establishing a relationship
;ootwecn flows at the dam site to flows recorded at a station on an adjacent
streanm with a longer period of record, and Lo rainfall.  Thle rainfall and
3djacent stream records were then used as the basis for estimating the flows
at tue dam site.  These studies indicate an average annual flow at tne dam
site of 278 Mnm3, a Linimum of 78 ;h3, and a maximum of 700 NIm3.



A iNEX 7
Page 3
11.       Water Requirements.  The water requirements were estimated using the
Blaney-Criddle method, with temperature and precipitation data from sta-
tions at Panuco and Chicayan. The net irrigation requirement was estimated
at 0.74 m. The conveyance efficiency was taken as 85% (appropriate for lined
canals and the short distances involved) and farm irrigation efficiency as
70W to give an overall efficiency of 60% and a gross water requirement of 1.23
m, or 12,300 m3 per ha.  For the 17,000-ha area, the annual water requirements
are then 210 :3 per year.
12.       Water Utilization.  The total capacity of the Paso de Piedras reser-
voir would be 570 11m3.  To provide head to operate the irrigation canals and
space for sediment, 110 Mm of the capacity would be dead storage, leaving
450 :4r3 us useable. Studies of flood hazards at the reservoir and the incidence
of hurricanes in the area further indicate that the total water in storage should
not exceed 460 Am3 from June through September and 525 1km3 in October. The
balance of the vear. the full capacity of 570 Mjm3 could be used, as the flood
hazard would be minimal. A study was made of the operation of the reservoir
ald its ability to meet the irrigation requirements with the above limitations
on usable storage space. For the 28-year period studied (1944 through 1971),
there were three consecutive years when the full irrigation requirement could
not be met.  The annual shortages expressed as a percentage of the total annual
requirement were 40,0, 15%, and 10%.  In each case, the shortage would occur in
the last part of the dry period prior to the usual onset of the rains in June.
rhese relatively few shortages are considered acceptable and it is concluded
that the water supply is adequate.
13.       Quality.  Total dissolved salts range from 300 to 400 ppm on Chicayan
River water and the SAR averages about 1.3. This classes it as a slightly
saline water withi low sodium hazard and suitable for irrigation.






Annex 8
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimates Las Animas
--- Mex. $ Millions ---          --- US $ Millions ---      Fofeign
Local   Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange
Civil Works Under ICB
Diversion Dam.L                              15.20      8.18       23.38       1.22      0.65      1.87       35
Feeder Canal                                 28.20    18.80        47.00       2.26      1.50      3.76       40
Storage Dam ana Reservoir                   112.42    74.94       187.36      8.99       6.00     14-99       40
Main Canals                                 104.27    69.51       173.78       8.34      5.56      13.90      40
Irrigation Distribution System               40.43    26.95        67.38       3.23      2.16      5.39       40
Drainage System                              23.13    12.46        35.59       1.85      1.00      2.85       35
Roads                                        19.70    13-14        32.84       1.58      1.05      2.63       40
Ditchrider Houses,                            0.50       -          0.50       0.04       -        0.04/       0
Telephone System                              1.83       -          1.83      0.15                 0.15        0
District Offices                              1.50       -          1.50      0.12        -        0.12        0
Subtotal                                3147 .l    2 3B       571.1h    17.79 457          0              - 
Civil Works Under Local Bids
Land Clearing                                16.04    10.68        26.72      1.28       o.85      2.13       40
Land Leveling                                39.65    13.22        52.87       3.17      1.06       4.23      25
Subtotal                                 55.69    23.90        79.53       4.45      l.91      636        3
Civil Works Under Negotiated Contracts
Access Road to Reservoir                      5.34                  5.34       0.43       -        0.43        0
Construction Camip                            5.00       -          5.00      0.40        -        0.40,       0
Subtotal                       _                               10.M34 3.                      3 _0.3       o
Total Civil ,olorks                         413.21   247.88       661.09      33.06     19.83     52.89       37
Equipment and Materials
Materials and. Equipment Furnished by SRH    29.67       -         29.67       2.37        -        2.37       0
Operation and Maintenance Equipment           8.94       -          8.94       0.72       -         0.72       0
Equipment Purchased by SEE under ICB          0.14      2.73        2.87       0.01      0.22      0.23       95
Subtotal                                                                                           2 4   4 E  3   l    0
Engineering and Acdinistration                    68.18       -         68.18       5.45       -        5.45        C
Rights of Way                                     17.56       -         17.56       1.40        -        1.40       0
Contingencies
Physical,XO% on Civil Works and Equipment   45.19    25.07        70.26      3.62       2.00      5.62       36
Prices, 10% on Civil Works and Equipment   45-19    25.07         70.26       3.62      2.00       5.62      36
Subtotal                                  90.38   T514         1140.52     7.-2       4.oo     11.24       36
Project Total Exclusive of PLAMEPA               628.08   300.75       928.83      50.25     24.05      74-30      32
PLAMEPA                                            17.00      -          17.00      1.36        -        1.36       0
Project Total with PLAMEPA                       645.08   300.75       945.83      51.61     24.05      75.66      32
August 17, 1973



Annex B
Page 2
MEXICO
PAEUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimates   Pujal Coy
--- Mex. $ Millions --US -              $ Millions ---        Foreign
Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange
Civil Works Under ICB
Diversion Dam                                  3.30      2.38         5.68      0.26       0.19      o°45       42
Feeder Canal        lj                         8.36      5.58        13.94      0.67       0.45       1.12      40
Pumping Plant No. 1                           15.24      6.53       21.77       1.22       0.52      1.7h       30
Pumping Plant No. 2-                           6.80      2.92         9.72      0.54       0.23       0.77      30
Discharge Canals                               0.30      0.20         0.50      0.02       0.02       0.04      40
Regulating Reservoirs                         13.73      9.16        22.89      1.10       0.73       1.83      40
Main Canals                                  168.86   112.57        281.43     13.51       9.00      22.51      40
Irrigation Distribution System                95.30    63.53        158.83      7.62       5.08      12.70      40
Drainage Systems                              45.91    24.72         70.63      3.67       1.98      5.65       35
Roads                                         19.60    13.06         32.66      1.57       1.04       2.61      40
Offices                                        1.50      0           1.50       0.12                 0.12        0
Ditchrider Houses                              1.20      0           1.20       0.10                 0.10 _.     0
Telen,hone 3ntom                               1.70      0           1.70       0.14        -        0.14        0
Subtotal                                 38l80   240.65        622.45      30-54     19.24      4;9.78      39
Civil Works Under Local Bids
Land aearing                                  24.19    13.03         37.22      l.914      1.04       2.98      35
Land Leveling                                 52.78    17.60         70.38      4.22       1.41       5.63      25
Subtotal                                  76-97    30.63       107.60 ;        .16     2.05      8.61
Total Civil Works                            458.77   2711.28       730.05     36.70      21.69      58-39      37
Equipment and Materials
Constriction Materials Furnished by SRH       62.90       -          62.90      5-03        -         5.03       0
Operation and Maintenance Eauipment           16.49       -          16.49      1.32        -         1.32        0
Eouiprent Purchased by SRH under ICE            -       67.60       67.60        -         5.4°       <-h0     100
Subtotal                                   767.60               1                        -
Engineering and Administration                     84.96      0           84.96       6.80      -          6.80        0
Rights of 'Way                                      8.83      0            8.83      0.71       -          0.71       0
Contingencies
Physical,  10% Civil Works and Equipment    57.75    28.75           86.50      4.62       2.30       6.92      33
Prices,1O% Civil Works and Equipment          57.75    28.75         86.50      4.62       2.30       6.92      33
Subtotal                                  ajo 173°004                                  4.-60    1T.8         33
Project Total Exclusive of PLPIgEPA                7      7.45   f T96. 1h 3           -       'Al ,6   0             31
PLAMIEPA                                            19.50       -         19.50       1-56        -        1.56        0
Project Total With PLAMEPA                        766.95   396.38       1163.33      61.36     31.69      93.05       30
1/ Civil Works, Installation of Pumping Equipment and SRH share of power line
January 17, 1974



Annex 8
Page 3
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Cost Estiaate Chicayan
--- Mex. $ Millions ---          --- US $ Millions ---       Foreign
Local   Foreign       Total      Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange
Civil Vorks under ICB
Paso de las Piedras Dan ...................  35.45    23.64           59.09      2.84       1.89      4.73        40
Main Canals .,                                  53.33  35,55    86.88   4.27    2.84    7.11    40
Irrigation Distribut'on System .                16.07    10.71        26.78      1.29       0.86      2.15        4°
Drainage Systen,                                 9.14     4.92        14.06      0.73       0.39       1.12       35
Road System .,                                   2.33   1.56           3.89   0.19   0.12   0.31    40
Ditchrider Houses   .............0... .......    029       -           0-.9      0.02        -        0.02'        0
District Offices ................00.......    . O O -                 1.00      o.o8        -        0.08         0
Telephone System .........................    o.65         -           0.65      0.05        -        0.05         0
Subtotal                                 l1 26    76.38          19.6        9.47      6.10                   TO
Civil Works Under Local Bids
Land Clearing ............,.,,.,.              10.66      5.74        16.40      0.85       0.l46     1.31        35
Land Leveling ...................              10.83      4.64        15.47      0.87       0.37      1.24        30
Subtotal                                    21.49    10          31.87  1     .72      6.j                   22
Civil Works Under Negotiated Contracts
Access Road to Dam .8.75                                      _       8.75   0.70                      0.70 3
Construction Camp ................       ...    5.00        -         5.00       0.40        -        0.40'        0
Subtotal                                   13-75       -         13.75       1.10               _ 1.10
Total Civil Works                              153-50    86.76      240.26      12.29       6.93     19.22        36
Equipment and Materials
Construction Materials Furnished by SRH         17.98       -          17.98     1.44        -         1.44         0
Operation and Maintenance Equipment ......    3.63          -           3.63     0.29        -         0.29         0
Equipment Purchased by SRH under  ICB            0.02     0.38         0.40       -         0.03      0.03        95
Subtotal                                     21.63     0.38        2.         173                               2 17
Engineering and Administration .24.39                            -          24.39     1.95                  1.95         0
Rights of Way .9.59   -                                                      9.59  0:77    -                0.77         0
Contingencies
?hysical,  10% Civil Works and Equipment .  17.51         8.71        26.22      1.40       0.70      2.10        33
Prices,1O%Civil Works and Equipment .17.51                 8.71        26-22     1-40       0-70       2.10       33
Subtotal                                     454 17                 2         28        1-                     33
Project Total Exclusive of PLAMEPA.2.13   104.5                           3469    19.B54 8.36              79          30
PLAMEFA .7.50  -                                                             7.50  0.60                     0.           0
Project Total With PLAMEPA                          251.63   104-56        356-19 20.i4          8.-36     28.50        29
August 17, 1973






ANNEX 9
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUC() FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Equipment and Materials
General
1.        SR-L traditionally purchases common building materials such as cement
and reinforcing steel in bulk orders and furnishes them to the contractors
for use on SRH work. Relatively small items such as structural steel shapes,
culverts, and valves are included in the civil works contracts on a furnish
and install basis. Large special equipment is purchased by SRH under separate
bidding documents and furnished to the civil works contractor for installa-
tion. Equipment and materials available in Mexico cannot be imported by SRH.
In general, only large size or special equipment is not available and thus
may be imported.
Equipment and Materials for use in Project Furnished by SRR Under Local Bids
2.        hle following items would be purchased by SRH under local bidding
procedures; and furnished to the contractor for installation in the project.
These items are not included in Bank financing:
Las Animas     Pujal Coy       Chicayan      Total
---Mex$ Millions-- - ---------
Cement                         23.7           52.8           15.6        92.1
Reinforcing Steel               6.0           10.1            2.4        18.5
Pumps and Accessories
29.7           62.9           18.0      110.6
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
3.        Certain equipment would be purchased to supplement that presently
available to operate and naintain the project.  Most of this equipment could
be obtained in Mexico and would be purchased under local bidding procedures.
It would be excluded from Bank financing.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Las Animas    Pujal Coy    Chicayan       Total
________---------- Mex$ '000 --------- -
Crawler Tractors                2.44         2.68          1.40         6.52
Drag Lines                      4.18                       0.88         5.06
Motor Graders                    1.41        1.64          0.47         3.52
Vibrator Rollers                 0.33           -          0.17         0.50
Small Tractor                   0.58            -          0.58         1.16
Pickup with Equipment               -        0.87          0.13         1.00
Compressor                          -        0.07             -         0.07
Welding Equipment                   -        0.15             -         0.15
Excavator                           -        6.54             -         6.54
Motor Scraper                       -        1.47             -         1.47
Tractor Scraper                     -        0.66             -         0.66
Agricultural Tractor                -        0.22             -         0.22
Slopemower                          -        0.54             -         0.54
Miscellaneous                       -        1.65             -         1.65
8.94       16.49          3.63        29.06
E jiment Purchased by SRH Under International Bidding Procedure
4.         The following equipment would be purchased by SRH for installation
in the project. International bids would be sought and these items would be
included in Bank financing:
Las Animas      Pujal Coy    Chicayan      Total
---------- Mex$ Million---------------
Gate Hoists                   2.9               -          0.4          3.3
10 Electric Motors 2,500 hp    -             10.0            -         10.0
2 Electric Motors 1,250 hp      -             1.3            -          1.3
Butterfly and Check Valves      -             3.6            -          3.6
3 Electric Motors of 2,600 hp,
with Valves                   -             2.9            -          2.9
Pumps and Accessories           -            38.8            -         38.8
1 Dredge                        -            11.0            -         11.0
2.9           67.6          0.4         70.9



MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
C.
MSunmarvERenditure dchedule
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(S  1ilions
mCalendar Year                1973     192714     1975                   171    1978    1979    1980    Total
Civil Works
Under ICB                            6.99      42.61    41.17        18.66     1.62                -       -     111.05
Under Local Bids                      -         3.90     7.80         4.81     1.01       -        -       -      17.52
1.LUn- der Negoti-ate na  1. 55 _ . 3 8 U        '.93
Total Civil Works                         8.54      46.89    48-97        23.47     2.63                        -     130.50
Equipment and Materials
By SRH (not ICB)                     0.70       2.97     3.80         1.36       _ -               -       -      11.9L
Operation and Maintenance             -         o.45     1.14         0.74                -        -       -        2.33
By SRH (ICB)                          -         1.53     1.83         2.32      -         -        -       -       1.68
Engineering and Administration             1.70      4.40     4.40         3.50      0,20       -       -       -       14.20
Rights of Way                              1.42      1.22      0.24         -         -        -        -       -2.8
Contingencies                              o-75      5.°o    11.90        11.19      0144      -        -       -       29.28
Extension Services                           -               _ _           0.81      0.91      0.82    0.81    0.17      3.52
Project Total (without Interest)          13.11     62.46    72.28        42.50      4.18     0.82    0.81    0.17   196.32
CD
0



ANNEX 10
Page 2
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Expenditure Schedule-Las Animas
Calendar Year              1973       1974       1975      1976       1977    19Th    1979    1980    Total
Civil Works Under ICB                       ------------------------------ US$ Millions --------------------------------
Diversion Cam                          0.47       1.40        _         _                                             1.87
Feeder Canal                           0.95       2.81        _         -          -                                  3.76
Storage Dam and Reservoir              0.90      10.00       4.09        -                                           14.99
Main Canals                            0.68       4.40       6.55      2.27                 -            -           13.90
Irrigation System                      0.34       2.00      1.80       1.25                              -            5.39
Drainage System                        0.34       1.60       0.80      0.11        _                                  2.85
Roads                                   -         0.40       1.20      1.03                                           2.63
Ditchrider Houses                       -          -         0.02      0.02                                           0.0o4
Telephone System                        -          -         0.10      0.05                                           0.15
District Offices                         -         -         0.06      0.06                                           0.12
Subtotal                               3.68      22.61      14.62      4.79         -        -       -         -     45.70
Civil Works Under Local Bids
Land Clearing                             -       0.50       1.20      0.43         -        -       -         -      2.13
Land Leveling                             -       0.80       2.50      0.93                                           4 _  _  4.23
Subtotal                                  -       1.30       3.70      1.36        _         -       _                6.36
Civil Works Under Negotiated Contracts
Access Road to Reservoir               0.35       0.08        -          -          -        -       -         -      O-43
Construction  ap                       o0.35      0.05        _          _          -        -       -        -       0.140
Subtotal                               0.70       0.13                   _-                                           0.83
Total Civil Works                          *T:W       214.014    18.32       6.1         -         -                      5-2.89
Equipment and Materials
Furnished by SRH (Not ICB)             0.20       1.20       0.90      0.17         -        -       -                2.37
Operation and Maintenance                -         -         0.40      0.32         -        -       -         -      0.72
Purchased by SHE (ICB)               _            0.23        -          -          -                                 0.23
Subtotal                               0.20       1.33       1.30      0.49         -        -       -         -      3.32
Engineering and Administration              0.90       1.60       1.60       1.35        -         -      -         -      5.45
Rights of Way                               0.80       0.60         -         -          -         -      -         -      1.40
Contingencies                               0.75       2.00       5.00       3.49        -         -      -         -    11.214
Extension Services                            -          -          -        0.22       o.36    0.36    0.36    0.06    1.36
Project Total                                7.03      29.57    26.22       11.70        0.36    o.3'6    0.36    0.06   75.66
Canuary 28, 1574



ANNEX 10
MEXICO                                        Page 3
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Expenditures Schedule-Pujal Coy
Calendar Year                   1973       1974      1975       1976      1977      1978     2979      1980     Total
-~~~~~~~~~-US$ M=llions                                       -------
-------------------- -------------U$MTTn  ---____-________
Civil Works Under IB
Diversion Dam                    0.30       0.15        -         -          -         -       -        -         ° 4'
Feeder Canal                     0.77       0.35                  -          -         -       -                    1°
Pumping Plant No. 1                -        1.60       0.14        -         -         -       -         -        1.74
Pumping Plant No. 2                -        0.20       D.57        -         -         -       -         -        0.77
Discharge Canals                   -        0.04        -                                      -         -        0.0 !
Regulating Reservoirs              -        1.40       0.143       -         -         -       -         -        1.P)
Main Canals                      1.30       6.oo     10.30       4.00       0.91       -       -         -       22.51
Irrigation System                0.50       2.50     14.80       4.70       0.20       -       -        -        1?.70
Drainage System                  0.35       1.65      1.65       1.60      O.)0        -       -         -        5.65
Roads                              -        0.25       1.25      1.00       0.11           -                       2.61
Offices                          0.09       0.03        -          -         -         -       -         -        0.12
Ditchrider Houses                  -        0.01      0.07       0.02        -        -        -        -         0.10
Telephone System                   -        0.03       0.07      0.04        -                 -         -         0.14
Subtotal                         3.31      14.21     19.28      11.36       1.62       -       _         _        15.7!
Civil Works Under Local Bids
Land Clearing                      -          o.60     1.00      1.00       0.38       -            -              2.36
Land Leveling                      -        1.00       2.00      2.00       0.63       -            -              5.6?
Subtotal                           -        1.60       3.00      3.00       1.01       -        -        -.6
Total Civil Works           3.1                 1-T531     22.236    T4.7              _ _ 3
Equipment and Materials
Construction Materials (iot ICB) o.146      1.22       2.20      1.14        -         -       -         -8.1
Operation and Maintenance
Equipment                    -        0.30      0.60       0.42        -         -       -         -        1.32
Equipment(ICB)                     -        1.30       1.80      2.32         -        -        -        -         1.2
Subtotal                         0.)16      2.82       4.60      2.99         -        -        -        -        10.87
Engineering and Administration         0.60      2.00       2.00      2.00       0.20       -        -        -         6.80
Rights of Way                          0.22      0.25       0.24        -                                _              0.71
Contingencies                           -        2.00     4140        7.00       0.li4      _ -               -        1 3.81
Extension Services                                -          -         o.0        0.36    0.36       0.35     0.09      1.56
Proj-ct Total                          1.59      22.88      33.52     26.75       3.63    0.36       0.35     0.09    92.17
January 28, 1974



ANNEX 10
Page 4
MEXICO
PANUG0 FIRST STAGE PROJECT
xpenditure Schedule - Chiasran
1973       1574       1975        1976       1977      1978      1979      1970        Total
Civ"3 Works Under ICB                                                                        ]]ions---------------------U--    -  -  --- - --
Paso de las Piedras Dam                      -        2.00       2.50        0.23        -         -          _         _          h.73
Main Canals                                  -        2.50       3.00        1.61        -         -          -         -          7.11
Irrigation System                            -        0.50       1.10        0.55        -         _         _         -           2.15
Drainage System                              -        o.60       o.40       0.12                             -         -           1.12
Road System                                  -        0.1C       0.21         _    -          -         -          -               0.31
Ditchrider Houses                            -        0.01       0.01        -           -         -         -         -           0.02
District  Offices                            -        0.06       0.02        -           -         -         -         -           0.08
Telephone System                             -        0.02       0.03         -          -         -         -          -          0.05
Subtotal                                -        5.79       7.27        2           -          _                                .7
Civil Works Under Local Bids
Land Clearing                                -        0.50       0.60        0.21        _         _         _                     1.31
Land Leveling                                -        (.50       0.50        0.24        -         -         _         _           1.24
Subtotal                                _        1.00       1.1-                    -         -          -         -
Civil Works Under Negotiated Contracts
Access Road to Dam                         0.65       0.05        _-                                                               0.70
Construction Camp                         0.20        0.20        _           -          -         _         _         _           °-4°
Subtotal                              0.5        0.25         _-                                                               1.10
Total Civil Works                                            .7.0                                  42 .                9 6 -  -  -  - 1 9.
Equipment and Materials
F'urnished by SRj-H (Not ICB)              c.04       o.65       0.70        0.05        _         _         _         _           1.44
Operation and Maintenance                   -         0.15       0.14         -                                                     0.29
Purchased by S5H] (IOB)                     _-                   0.03         _          _         _         _         _           0.03
Subtotal                              0-.Or4    -0° 0       07                                                     176
Engineering and Administration                  0.20       0.80        M.8O       0.15        -          -         -         -           1.95
Rights oS Way                                   C.40        0.37        -          -                                                     0.77
Contingencies                                    _         1.00        2.50       0.70        -          -         -                     4 1X.20
Extension Services                               -          -           -         0.19       0.19        0.10        0.10       0.02    o.60
PROJECT TOTAL                                   1.49       10.01      12.5)t      )4.05       0.19       0.10        0.10       0.02   28.50
January 28, 1974



ANNEX 1 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Schedule of Y;isbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
at end of Semester
Fiscal Year and Semester                                US$ Million
1974
June 30, 1974                                               3.0
1975
December 31, 1974                                          12.0
June 30, 1.975                                             24.0
1976
December 31, 1975                                          36.O
June 30, 1976                                              49. 0
1977
December 31, 1976                                          56. 
June 30, 1977                                              64.o0
1978
December 31, 1977                                          68.0
June 30, 1978                                              73.0
197''
December 31, 1978                                          76.0
June 30, 1979                                              76.4
198C)
December 31, 1979                                          76.6
June 30, 1980                                              76.6
1981
December 31, 1980                                          77.0
February L4, 1974



ANNEX 12
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECTS
Advance Contracting
1.        The Mexican Government has recognized the urgency of construction
of the Panuco First-Stage Project and has initiated construction of some
features on all three areas of the project. Some works such as access roads
to dam sites and construction camps are being accomplished by contracts nego-
tiated with individual contractors using standard unit prices established for
the particular items of work for the geographical location involved. For
example, the Mexican Department of Highways furnished the unit prices used in
the negotiations for access roads. The work let under negotiated contracts
is excluded from financing under the project.
2.        Construction work on certain other features has been initiated
under international competitive bidding procedures. The procedures followed
for seeking international bids have been the same as used on the four previous
Bank irrigation loans to Mexico. Bidding documents have been submitted to
the Bank for comment. Recommendation for award of contracts and copies of
contracts as awarded have been furnished to the Bank.
3.        Table 1 shows the status of contracts let under international bid-
ding procedures as of September 1, 1973. The anticipated contractor earnings
as of January 1, 1974 are shown as reflecting a possible date of loan signing
and also as a measure of the portion of the Bank loan which would be eligible
for disbursement if the Bank agrees to finance work let prior to loan signing.



MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Contracts Let Under International Bidding Procedures in 1973
Date                Contract                                                       Value of               Probable
Contract No                                        Work Item                                 Bids Opened              Date                         Contractor                       Contract,             Earnings
1973                                                                                ME$To
2                                                                                                             -M- nillion                                                                                              Jan 1974
n     Contracts Let Under ICB
Las Animas Unit
n1                 GIC-73-5              Feeder Canal-Diversion Dam  to Las Animas Reservoir              February 20         March 13        Mexico, Compania Constructora, S.A.                  32.293                 11.0
in                 GIC-73-6              Diversion Dam across Cuayalejo River                             April 10            April 30        Bufete Industrial Construcciones S.A.deC.V.    31.129                        9.0
GIC-73-21             Right Bank Main Canal Km 0+000 to Km 30+100                      July 24            August 7         Ingenieros Y Arquitectos S.A.
GIC-73-43             Storage Dam Las Animas                                           July 30            August31         Construcciones Integrales, S,A.
a                  GlC-73-56             Zone Irrigation Right Bank,  5,000 ha                            September 11       September 25  Constructora Regional del Bravo, S.A.                   26.432                 4.0
GIC-73-57             Zone Irrigation Right Bank, 12,000 ha                            September 11             1/        Ingenierios y Arquitectos, S.A.                      70.705                 10.0
Main Canal Left Bank Km 0+000 to Km 22 and 6,000 ha
1/                 of Irrigation                                                        1/                 1/                              1/                                1/                   4.0
Subtotal 47.0
pu jal Coy Unit
GIC-73-17             Diversion Dam San Jose del Limon  nd Feeder
Canal to ?.mping Plant                                        March 20               1/           Constructora Regional del Brevo, S;A.                30.C24                 12.0
GIC-73-23             Main Canal  Barrote Km 0+000 to Km 31+130                        July 30            August 14        Caminos and Vias, S.A.                               21.064                 6.5
GIC-73-36             First Zone Irrigation 4200 ha                                    June 19            July 4           Constructora Regional del Bravo, S.A.                13.577                 6.5
GIC-73-48             Main Canal Ebano                                                 October 30             1/                                  1/                               1/                  4.5
Dikes E and F (Regulating Reservoirs)                               _                   _                                                                                        4.1
Subtotal 33.6
Chicayan Unit
None                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
Total  80.6
Equiv. US$Million         6.4
1/  Data  not yet available                                                                                                                                                                                            12






ANNEX 13
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
General
1.        The only irrigation presently practiced on the project areas is
done privately by pumping directly from the streams, but records are not
available of costs incurred.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
2.        Long experience in operating irrigation projects in Mexico has led
SRH to relate general operating and maintenanc   costs to the amount of water
delivered. A unit cost of Mex$ 25 per 1,000 m has been adopted as average
for a fully developed project involving storage dams and typical irrigation
facilities. Any special costs such as th3se to cover pumping, as on Pujal
Coy, is additional. Makeup of the l,OOOm estimated cost is:
Amount
Function                      Percent            Mex$
Operation                        25               6.25
Engineering for Irrigation
and Drainage                  10               2.50
Maintenance                      40              10.00
Administration                   15               3.75
Other Costs                      10               2.50
100              25.00
3.        Pujal Coy is the only area for which water would have to be pumped.
SRH and the Electricity Commission would share the costs of building a trans-
mission line to bring electric power to the plants. The rate for power at
the plants is taken as Mex$ 0.12 per kwhr. The costs of pumping are then
estimated as follows:
Mex$ Million
Electric Energy  138   106 kwhr               16.359
Lubricants                                       .464
Maintenance                                     1.560
Labor                                            .458
Total                                    18.841



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        The annual operation and maintenance costs for each area are then:
Las Animas    Pujal Coy    Chicayan       Total
Water Diverted, Mm3           610             739          211       1,560
O&M, Mex$ Millions           15.25           18.47       5.28        39.00
Pumping Costs                  -             18.84        -          18.84
Tot.al, Mex$ Millions   15.25           37.31       5.28        57.84
US$ Millions                  1.22            2.98       0.42         4.62
Project Area '000's ha         48              72          17          137
Mex$ per ha                   318             518        311    Ave.  422
US$ per ha                   25.44           41.44      24.88   Ave. 33.76
Organization
5.        The typical organization pattern for operation and maintenance
would call for one District Chief in each of the three areas to direct all
such activities.  The district would be divided into four or five units, each
headed by a chief. The units would again be divided into four zones with a
supervisor. The zones, in turn would be divided into about four sections,
with a canalero (ditchrider) who would physically operate the turnouts in his
section to deliver water to the individual users. Staff would have to be re-
cruited and trained for these positions but many candidates would be available.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Agricultural Services
1.        Mexican agricultural services providing education, training, re-
search, extension and credit are reputed to be among the best in Latin
America. They have had an important bearing on Mexico's relatively rapid
agricultural development. They are, however, still insufficient to cope
with the growing needs of the country, but offer a sound basis for expansion.
Education: Professional Level
2.        At the university level, agricultural education has grown steadily
for more than a century and Mexico now has 15 undergraduate schools. Five
of the major schools show a combined enrollment of about 6,600 students, of
whom about 1,150 will graduate this year (Ingeniero Agronomo degree). It is
estimated that Mexico has about 9,000 agriculture graduates (Ingenieros
Agronomos) now practicing their profession.
3.        Three of the major agricultural schools have postgraduate courses.
The National School of Agriculture, Chapingo near Mexico City, is part of
the Ministry of Agriculture (SAG) and functions as a regional center for
agricultural education, research and extension. It is supported by the
Rockefeller and Ford Foundations, IDB, USAID, FAO/UNDP and Government.
Chapingo is the biggest and oldest postgraduate school and has nine depart-
ments offering Masters and two offering Doctors degrees. The Graduate School
has 230 students and, to date, 207 Masters degrees have been granted.
4.        Mexico also has nine veterinary schools, with a total enrollment of
about 4,200 undergraduate students, about 700 of whom graduate this year.
The Mexican National University is the only one having postgraduate courses
in Veterinary Medicine. There are about 3,000 veterinarians now practicing
their profession, the majority of whom work in clinics and animal disease
fields. Only a relatively small number are directly engaged in animal
production.
Education: Sub-Professional Level
5.        Currently seven technical agricultural and livestock schools
financed jointly by SAG and State Governments have a student population of
about 2,400 and a yearly output of about 700 sub-professionals. The role of
the sub-professionals as technical assistants to enlarge the effectiveness
of the professionals is being expanded, mainly by the Secretary of Hydraulic
Resources (SRH), Fondo de Garantia para la Agricultura, Ganaderia and
Avicultura (FONDO), the Banco Nacional Agropecuario System (BANAGRO) and
other official and private banks.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
6.        About 159 secondary schools offer three-year courses in farming,
animal husbandry, farm machinery and elements of rural management.
Training
7.        The National School of Agriculture, Chapingo also has continuing
special agricultural training courses. One special course of six-month
duration is for technicians of the on-going Plan De Mejoramiento Parcelario -
PLAMEPA - of SRH. Another special training course is for technicians from
the FONDO and public and private institutions associated with the Credit
Program of FONDO. FONDO has established an office at Chapingo to coordinate
activities of the various institutions engaged in agricultural and livestock
activities and to promote application of research findings at farm level.
Research
8.        Agricultural research is based on two main institutions:  Instituto
Nacional de Investigaciones Agricolas - INIA, and Instituto Nacional de
Investigaciones Pecuarias - INIP.  Administratively both belong to SAG -
INIA to the Under Secretary for Agriculture and INIP to the Under Secretary
for Livestock. However, there is little coordination between them. Govern-
ment and the Rockefeller Foundation have given significant support to agri-
culture research, especially since 1943. Under this support, some of the
high yielding varieties of wheat and corn have been developed and produced
in Mexico and are being exported to other countries as a part of the so-
called "Green Revolution."
9.        Other types of research are carried out by specialized institutions
such as the Mexican Institute of Technological Research of Monterrey, which
devotes particular attention to agro-industries; the Institute for Improve-
ment of Sugar Production; the National Forestry Service; SRH on hydrologic
research; the Mexican Coffee Institute; the Center for Agrarian Research;
the Universities, mostly in connection with graduate studies; and the Latin
American Association for Animal Production with headquarters in Mexico.
Extension
10.       Agricultural extension services to meet the needs of about three
million Mexican farmers are provided by:
-    Government through SAG, SRH, and State Governments;
-    Banking institutions; and
-    Private organizations.
11.       The Federal Service, the biggest of all, has some 1,900 officers,
80% of whom are graduates in either agriculture or veterinary science. The
remaining 20% are sub-professionals. Taking into account this number of
extension officers and the total number of farmers, a ratio of approximately



ANNEX 14
Page 3
one officer to 1,600 farmers is obtained, which is inadequate to meet far-
mers' needs by any standard. Government is in the process of correcting this
numeric deficiency and is also engaged in providing better facilities and
incentives to their Federal and State Services. Both SAG and SRH concentrate
in the irrigation areas while the rainfed cropping and ranching areas are
relatively neglected.
Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario (PLAMEPA)
12.       SRH has long had a section concerned with irrigation and drainage
problems in its usual irrigation district organization. These sections have
been concerned with improving irrigation practices and making more efficient
use of irrigation water in SRH districts. Over the years, this program
evolved into PLAMEPA, which now works with individual farmers (private as
well as colonos), ejidos, or ejidatarios to improve use of irrigation water.
While irrigation practices are given emphasis in the program, a full line
of extension services, including choice of seed variety, cultivation prac-
tices, and use of fertilizer and pesticides, is also provided. The project
would include an intensive four-year PLXMEPA effort as a development cost.
A program would be continued at a reduced rate after completion of the ini-
tial phase and be an annual cost to be borne by the Government. The timing
of the intensive program would be from 1974 to approximately 1978. This
would insure that all newly settled ejidatarios are given PLAMEPA assistance.
The proposed investment schedule is presented in Table 1 and would result
in a ratio of about one PLAMEPA employee to each 80 farmers.
Credit
13.       Agricultural credit to meet the needs of a complex farming com-
munity composed of about three million farmers and producers in Mexico is
provided by the official banks and private credit institutions.
14.       Official banks are those organized or created by Government.  To
serve the agricultural sector, Mexico has three official banks:
Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal S.A. de C.V. (BANEJIDAL),
which lends only to ejidatarios;
-    Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola (BANAGRICOLA) which
concentrates on lending to smallholders and colonistas
(colonos); and
-    Banco Nacional Agropecuario (BANAGRO), which lends to any
technically assisted type of farmer.
In addition, the FONDO de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia
y Avicultura (FONDO) was established in 1955 as a trust fund in the Central
Bank of Mexico (BANXICO), to carry out a program which provides financial



ANNEX 14
Page 4
support and agricultural technical services to official and private banks
active in agriculture. Financial support to the banking system is provided
through a rediscounting mechanism. 1/
15.       Private credit institutions dealing with agricultural credit are
commercial banks and "Financieras."  These have technical departments staffed
by loan officers who normally coordinate with FONDO technicians in matters
related to preparation and appraisal of farm development plans. Government
has announced its intention to guarantee at least 60% of the amDunt of long
term loans made by private financial institutions to ejedatarios and small
farmers.
1/   More complete and extensive information concerning the credit system is
given in the Appraisal Report of the Fourth Livestock and Agricultural
Development Project 133a ME dated May 25, 1973.



NEXI CO
PANUJCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSTON SERVICES
Investment Schedule
Las Animas------------------------------Pujal Cov------Chicayan-------------------  Panuco
Year    Year    Year    Year                     "ear  Year Year        Year              Ycar    Y                               Grand
l       2        3        4        Total         1     2      3         4    Total        l        2        3       4   Total  Total
ACTIVITIES                                       ______________________________________--_____________ Mex$'000   --__-________-________-_-__- ________-_-____-______
'topographic surveying                        600      840      -         -        1,440      300    600    900        360   2,160      240      273        -      -      513   4,113
Preparation of farm plans                     650      650    650        650       2,600      700    700    700       700   2,800       320      320      320    320  1,280   6,680
Sn1l and drainage stn,dies                    380      380    380        380       1,520      400    400    400       400   1,600        30       50        50     50    180   3,300
Laboratory tests                              310      310    310        310       1,240      350    350    350        350   1,400        30       50       50     50    180   2,820
Field demonstrations                           -    1,400  2,600    2,600          6,600      700  2,200  2,200   2,740   7,840           -      600   1,245  1,245  3,090  17,530
Artificial insemination                        30       40      40        40         150       40      50      50       50      190       20       20       30     30    100       440
o      Agricultural and livestock trials               -      100      00       100          300       50    100    100       100      350       -        50       50      50    150      800
ivMisceilaneous                                30       30      30        30         120       60    100    100        100      360       20       27       20     20      87      567
w           subtotal                               2,000   3,750  4,110    4,110         13,970   2,600  4,500  4,800   4,800  16,700           660   1,390   1,765  1,765  5,580  36,250
Procurement, Constructions and
s      Installations
Soils and water laboratory equipment          230       -       -        -           230      230    -        -        -       230        -      -          -      -      -        460
Laboratory and equipment for                                                          _
artificial insemination                      -        -                                     500    -        -        -       500        -      --                -      _500
Laboratory and equipment for
animal production                            -        _       _        _           -        500    -                         500        _      _          _      _      _        500
Land leveling equipmenit                      350                                    350      700    -                          700      350      -                       350   1,400
Agricultural and livestock equipment          700       -       -        -           700   1,050    -         -               1,050      350      -                 -     350   2,100
Vehicles                                      126        90    -         -           216      168    120    -                   288       84      -         _       _      84      588
Audio Visual aid  equipment                   105       -       -        -           105    105       -       -        -       105                -         -       - -           210
Irrigation equipment                            -       -       -        -           -        175    -        -                 175       -       -         _       _     _        175
01ice equipment and supplies                   80       30    30         30          170      t20     50      50       50      270       60       20       20      20    120      560
Trr.iing facilities                           too       100   100        100         400O     130    130    130    1,30         520       80       80       80      80    320   1,240
miscellaneous                                   59       30    10         10          109      97      75      20       20      212       41       10       10      10     71      392
Subto,al,                              1,750       250   :40        140       2,280   3,775    375    200         200   4,550      965      110      110    110  1,295   8,125
ToLal                                  3,750    4,000 4,250    4,250         16,250   6,375  4,875  5,000   5,000  21,250   1,625   1,500   1,875  1,875  6,875  44,375
Personnell/                                    ---------------------------------------------------------Numbers----------------_______- _______________-_________-______
Senior extension officer                         I        1       1         1          1         1       1      1        1        I        1        1        I       1       1        3
Extensioin officers                              3        5      9          9          9         L;      6     10       10       10        3        3        3       3       3       22
Suib-professional extension off cers             7      13      23        23         23          8     14      '4       24       24        7        7        7       7       7       54
Surveyors                                        1       2       3         3           3         2       3      4        4        4        1        1        1       1       1        8     -9
Research assistants                              2        1       7         7          7         3       5      8        8        8        2        2        2       2       2       17
Secretaries                                      1        2      3         3           3         2       3      4        4        4        1        1        1               1        8
Workers                                          9       15     24        24          24        10      16     25       25       25        9        9        9       9       9       58     -
Total                                     24       42      70        70         70        30      48      76       76      76       24       24       24      24      24      170
1/ Salaries included in activities



I



ANNEX 15
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Assumptio.- cn irons Areas. Labor. Yields. -Farmgate Prices and Cost of Production
Years                                                          Years
0         1          2          3         4                    0         L          2          3          4
Unit        Withoot --------      With Project------------                  Without ---------      lWith Project-----------
Project                                                        Project
Soybeans                                                                                                      Cotton
Area                                         ho     1,200   10,000      19,500    30,000    30,000                  2,000    9,000    17,00C    25,000    25,000
Labor requirements                  sas-days/ha          3        10         14         16         16                  30        35         4C         45         50
Yields                                 tons/ha           O,q       1.5        2.0        2.5        2.5                  1.5       2.0        2.5        2.5        2.5
Rural price                            Mex$/ton     1,900    1,900       1,900      1,900      1,900                2,700    2,700       2,700      2,700      2,700
G.ross production  -alue               Mem$/ha      1,710    2,850       3,800      4,750      4,750                4,050    5,400       6,750      6,75)      6,750
Cost                                   Meon/ha      1,000    1,300       1,600      1,900      1,900                2,700    3,000       3,800      3,800      3,800
Net vaiue of production (NV:P)         Men./ha         710    1,550      2,200      2,850      2,850                1,350    2,400       2,950      2,950      2,950
Incronental NVP                        Mea$/ho        -         840      1,490      2,140      2,140                  -       1,050      1,600      1,600      1,600
Vegetables and Melons                                                                                         Safflo-er
Area                                        ha      4,800    6,000       7,000      8,000      8,000                8,000   12,000      17,000    20,000    20,000
Labor requirements                man-days/ha           90      150        220         280       280                     3       14         15         15         15
Yields                                 tons/ha          11        13         15         18         18                   0.7        1.0        1.5        2.0        2.0
Rural price                            Mex$/tan    1,800    1,800        1,800      1,800      1,800                1,800     1,800      1,800      1 800      1,800
Gross prod-etion value                 Mea$/ha    19,800   23,400    27,000        32,400    32,400                 1,260     1,800      2,700      3,600      3,600
Cost                                   Me.$/ha      6,000    9,000    12,000    15,000    15,000                      700    1,000       1,200      1,400      1,400
Net value of production (NVP)          Me.$/ha    13,800   10,400    15,000        17,400    17,400                   560       800      1,500      2,200      2,200
Incremental NVP                        Mex$/ha        -         600      1,200      3,600      3,600                  -         240        940      1,640      1,640
leans and Pulses                                                                                             Sorghum
Area                                         ha     2,000    2,500       3,500      4,000      4,000               11,000   14,000      19,500    30,000    30,000
Labor requirements                 nan-days/ha           3        10        14         16          16                    6        17        10          19         19
Yilds                                  tons/ho           1.0       1.2        1.4        1.5        1.5                  1.8       3.0        4.0        5.0        5.0
Rural price                            Meo$/ton    1,800    1,800        1,800      1,800      1,800                  750       750        750         750       750
Grass production value                 Mee$/ha      1,800    2,160       2,520      2,700      2,700                1,350    2,250       3,000      3,750      3,750
Cost                                   Mex$/ha         860    1,200      1,500      1,600      1,600                  720    1,200       1,400      1,600      1,600
Net value of production (NVP)          Me.$/ha         940      960      1,020      1,100      1,100                  630    1,050       1,600      2,150      2,150
Inccemental NVP                        Mea$h/a        -          20         80        160        160                  -         420        970      1,520      1,520
Rice                                                                                                         Sugar Cane
Area  /                                      ha        -     3,000       6,000      6,000      6,000                  400    1,500       2,500      3,000      3,000
Lbur/i qucrce.ents                 -an-days/ba         -        20          22         23          23                  30        35          40        45         45
t   YeJKs5                                  toes/ha        -          3.0         4.0        5.0        5,0                 60        75         90        100        100
. I price                              Meal/tan    1,400   1,400         1,400      1,400      1,400                   80         80         80        80          80
Gross production value                 Meal/ha         -     4,200       5,600      7,000      7,000                4,800    6,000       7,200      8,000      8,000
Cast                                   Mem$/h.         -     2,400       2,600      2,800      2,800                2,200    2, 00       2,800      3,000      3,003
Net eulue of production (NVP)          Mem$/ha         -     1,800       3,000       i,200     5,200                2,600    3,400       4,400      5,000    51,00
Incremental NVP                        Mex$/ha        -      1 800       3,700      5,200      5,200                  -         800      1,800      2,400      2,400
Pasture,
Beef/
Corn                                                                                                         Pattening
Area.                                        ha    11,000   8,000        4,001      4,000      4,000               37,100   38,000    39,000    39,000    39,000
Labor  requirements                man-days/ha          10      20           22         22         22                    1         2          3          3          3
Yield                                  ton.s/ha          1        2           3          3          3                    0.245     0.49       0.98       1.47       1.47
Ru.ra  price                           Mex$/ton        900     900         900         900       900                9,000    9,000       9,000      9,000      9,000
Gross production value                 Mex$/ha         900   1,800       2,700      2,700      2,700                2,205    4,410       8,820    13,230    13,230
Cost                                   Mex$/ba         850   1,200       1,700       1,700     1,700                2,000    4,000       8,000     11,700    11,700
Net value of produetiou (RVP)          Mex5/ha          50     600       1,000       1,900     1,000                   205      410         820      1,530      1,530
Incretnentsl (HOP)                     Mel$/ha         -       550         950        950        950                  -         205        615      1,325      1,325
- ---- -- - ---- - --- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- - ----- -- - -- -Years ----- -----------______--_-_-__-_-__-_-__-_-_--_-_--_-_--_-_-
Freit Trehs                                                        1           2          3          4              5    6          7          8          9          10
Area                                         ha.       700   2,500       5,000      6,500      8,000
Labor requirements                 man-days/ha          90      100         110        120        130
Yields, existing                       tons/ha           8       12          16         20         20
Yields, mes                            tons/ha           0        0           0          0          C            2    5          8         12         16          20
Rural price                            Men$/too    2,000   i,000         2,000      2,000      2,000
Gross prodnction value                 Mex$/ha    16,000  24,000        32,000    40,000    40,000
Cost                                   Mea$/ha      5,000   7,000        8,000       3,000     9,000
Net value of production (NVP)          Mex$/ha    11,000  10,000        24,000    31,000    31,000
Incremental  (NYP)                     Mex$/ha         -     6,000      13,000    20,000    20,000
September 18, 1973






MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PR9JECT
Detailed Production Costs    >
Without Proiect
tMx    prha) 
Soybeans    Vegetables    Beans and    Rice    Corn    Cotton    Safflower    Sorghum    Sugar Cane    Fruit Trees    Pasture/
and Melons     Pulses           -
Operating Cost3
Without Project . Present Situation
Contract Cultivation                        410             700           320           -       240      340          330         230             350            1,100            50
Seeds and Planting Materials                210             260           230           -        60       70           50          50              -               -              -
Pesticides and Weed Control                 100             /130            60          -        40      925                        90             80              300            20
Fertilizers and Inoculants                   25             700             -           -        -        -            -            -             190               60            -
Implements and 'ools                         20             140            20           -        20       3510                     10              60               80            !0
Harvesting Supplies                          40             250             40          -        50       40           40          40              80              340            -
Labor                                        90           2,700             90          -      300       900           90          180            900            2,700            30
Repairs and Maintenance                       -              -              -           -        -        -            -            -             200              -              LO
Animal Health                                                                            -                                                          -              -              1O
Mineral Salts                                 -              -              -           -        -        --                                                                      10
Livestock Purchase                                           -              -           -        -        -             -           -               -               -          1,800
Miscellaneous                                105            820            100          -       140      390           180         120             340              420            60
Total                                  1,000           6,000           860           -       850   2,700           700          720          2,200            5,000         2,000
Soptember 10, 197,
M 2:
M o



ANNEX 16
Page   2
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Detailed Production Costs
Perennial Crops and Livestock with Project (Includes Investnient Cost)
(Mex$ per ha)
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Sugarcane
Machinery                              1,760       -          -                 1,760
Planting material                        6c0       -          -         -         660
Fertilizers                              190       -          -         -         190
Insecticides                              80       -          -         -          80
Other materials and tools                -         -          -         -
Labor                                  1,170       -          -         -       1,170
Miscellaneous                            240       -          -         -         240
Total                            14,100       -          -         -       4,100
Fruit Trees
Machinery                              1,430    1,120      1,120      1,120     4,790
Planting materials                     3,500       -          -         -       3,500
Fertilizers                               40       140       250        300       730
Inrsecticides                            270       270       270       270      1,080
Other materials and tools                230       180        80         80       570
Labor                                  2,280    1,090      1,550      2,000     6,920
Miscellaneous                            250       200       230        230       910
Total                             8,000    3,000      3, 500    4 ,oo     18e,500
Livestockl/
Pasture, beef fattening
Pasture establishment                  1,450       -          -         -      1,450
Fixed fences, Mex$3,500/Ikm               70       -                              70
Electric portable fences Mex$2,500/km    20        -          -         -         20
Corral and additional structures          70       -          -         -         70
Miscellaneous                             90       -           -        -         90
Total                            1,700       -    -               -      1,700
1/ Investment cost estimates based on a one-thousand hectares ejido cooperative
ranch but figures refer to 1 ha.



MEXICO
PANXUO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Detailed Production Costs
Annual Crops with Project
Beans                                                                                  Pasture,
Operating Costs                          Soybeans     Vegetables       and      Rice      Corn     Cotton      Safflower     Sorghum      Sugar    Fruit      Beef]
With Project, at Full Development                  and melons      Pulses                                                              Cane     Trees     Fattening
Contract cultivation                   500           900          430      600      400        500          400           450        400    1,200
Seeds and planting materials           265           310          300      300        75       170            75           95          -       -            -
' Pesticides and weed control            120          1,500          70      360        80       620            50          100         100      600          20
Fertilizers and inoculants             175          1,200          70      340       185       300            70          120         250    1,000         230
Implements and tools                    30           800           30      100       60        100           45            35         150      300          10
Harvesting supplies                     70          1,400          70      150        80       100            60           80         150      700          10
-  Labor                                  480          8,400         480      690       660     1,500           450          570       1,350    3,900          90
Repairs and maintenance                 -             -            -        -         -        -              -            -          100      400          30
Animal bealth                                         -            -        -         -        -              -            -           -       -            60
Mineral salts                           -             -            _        _         _                                                -       -            50
Supplements                                           -            -        -         -        -              -            -           -       -           250
Livestock purchases                     -             -            -        -         -        -              -            -           -       -        10,800
Miscellaneous                          260           490          150      260       160       510           250          150         500      900         150
Total                         1,900        15,000        1,600    2,800    1,700      3,800        1,400         1,600       3,000    9,000      11,700
September 13, 1973
X






ANNEX 17
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Production, Cosis.and Net Value of Production
Without Proide 
Produc-              Gross
tion      Prices   Production Production Costs  Net Value
Area       Yields   (retric   (Mex$/    Value          (ex$      (Mex$    Production
Croos                                      (ha!       (kg/h.       t)       ton)   _        (MX000)   ha)   '000)   (Mex$'000)
Las Animas
Soybeans                               1,200        900      1,080      1,900    2,052        1,000      1,200          852
Corn                                   5,000      1,100      5,500        900    4,950          850      4,250          700
Cotton                                 1,000      1,500      1,500      2,700    4,050        2,700      2,700       1,350
Safflower                             6,000         700      4,200      1,800    7,560          700      4,200       3,360
Sorghum                               5,000       1,800      S,000        750    6,750          720      3,600       3,150
Subtotal rainfed                  18,200       1,169    21,280       1,192   25,362          876    15,950        9,412
Pastures, rainfed                  5.500         245      1,348     2,000   12.132         2,000    11,000        1.132
Vegetables and melons irrigated    1,200    1.1,00C    13,200           1,800   23,760        6,000      7,200      16,560
Sugar cane irrigated                     400    60,000    24,000           80    1,920        2,200        880        1,040
Fruit trees irrigated                    200      8,000      l,O00      2,000    3,200        5,000      1,000        2,200
Subtotal irrigated                 i1,80      21,556    38,800         744   28,880        5,044      9,080      19,800
Native vegetation                 "z,5Jj         -      -_ -            -                    - -                     -
Total                             43,033      1,279    61,422        1,081   66,374          750    36,030       30,344
Cropping intensity, %:                53
Puiaal Coy 
Beans and pulses                       2,000      1,000      2,00C0    1,90G    3,800            860      1,720       2,080
Corn                                   6,000      1,10o      6,600        900    5,940           850     5,100          840
Cotton                                 1,000      1,500      i,50C.     2,700    4,C50        2,700       2,700       1,350
Sarflower                              2,000        700      1,401      1,800    2,520           700      1,400       1,120
Sorghum                               6,00G      J,800    1 908          _ 750     ,100          720     4,320        3,780
Subtotal rainfed                   17,000      1,312    22,300                24,410          896    15,240        9,170
Pastures, rainfed                 22,000         245      9,390i     9,000   48,510        2,000    T44,000       4,510
Vegetables and melons irrigate8    3,500    1I,00M)    38,1MCC          1,800   69,300        6,000    21,000        43,300
Fruit trees irrigated                    50U    _8,3a OCt      00       2 000    8 000        2,000      2,500        5,500
___ ~~~~~                     __                    L,                      __
Subtotal irrigated                   4,000      1,063    42,501i      1,819   77,300        5,875    23,500        53,800
Native vegetation                     29,012        --                -             -            -          -           -
Total                             72,012         975    70,190       2,140  150,220        1,149    82,740       67,480
Cropping intensity,  ,                 60
Chicayan
Pasture, rainfed                       9,600        245      2,352      9,000   21,168         2,000    19,200        1,968
Subtotal irrigated                       100    11,000       1,100       1,800    1,980        6,500        600       1,380
Native vegetation                      7,300        -          -          -                      -          -           -
Total                                 17,000        203      3,h52      6,7C6   23,143         1,165     19,800       3,348
Cropping intensity, %:                57
SUTMMARY
Rainfed                               35,200      1,238    43,580       1,1i2   49,772           887    31,190       18,582
Pastures, rainfed                    37,100         245      9,090      9,000   81,810        2,000    74,200         7,610
Irrigated                             5,900    13,966    32,40(0        1,313  108,160        5,624    33,180        74,980
Subtotal                              78,200      1,727   135,070       1,775  239,742         1,772   138,570    101,172
Native vegetation                     58,845        -          -                     -
Grand Total                      137,045         986   135,070       1.775  239,742        1,011   138,570    101,172
_              =                    =            --,,_-
Cropping intensity, ,                    57
September 19, 1973



MEXTCO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Crop2p_n  Pattern, Production, Costs and Net Value of Production
----th--ro-----t------------------------------            P-----------------------------------------------_
Gross Production                                    Net Value of    Incremental net
Area    Yields    Production    Prbies--        Value                   Productitr,i Costs          Production        value of production
Crops                      2      (kg/ha)       eic ton)  (Mex$/ ti)    (Mex$ 00   _t_ex   h                     eox$00          Ne xL'00           IXSflD0)
Las Animas
Soybeans                 12,500   2,500         31,250       1,900             59,375           1,900            23,750          35,625            34,773
m      Vegetables and melons   3,000  18,000           54,000        1,800            97,200           15,000           45,000          52,200             35,640
Beans and pulses          1,500   1,500          2,250       1,800              4,050           1,600             2,400           1,650              1,650
n-t    Rice                       2,000   5,000        10,000        1,400            14,000            2,800             5,600          8,400              8,400
Corn                      1,500   3,000          4,500         900              4,050           1,700             2,550           1,500                800
o      Cotton                     9,000   2,500         22,500       2,700            60,750            3,800            34,200         26,550             25,200
Safflower                 9,000   2,000         18,000       1,800             32,400           1,400            12,600          19,800            16,440
Sorghtum                 12,500   5,000         62,500         750            46,875            1,600            20,000         26,875             23,725
Sugar cane                  500 100,000         50,000          80              4,000           3,000             1,500           2,500              1,460
ID      Truit trees               3,000  20,000         60,000       2,000            120,000            9,000           27,000          93,000             90,800
Pasture beef fattening 10,000   1,470           14,700       9            -  132,300           11.,700          117,000          15,300            14,168
Total                64,500               329,700                        575,000                           291,600         283,400            253,056
Cropping Intensity, %: 134
Pujal Coy
Soybeans                 15,500   2,500         38,750       1,900             73,625           1,900            29,450         44,175             44,175
Vegetables and melons   4,000  18,000           72,000       1,800            129,600          15,000            60,000          69,600             21,300
Beans and pulses          1,500   1,500          2,250       1,800              4,050           1,600             2,400           1,650               (430)
Rice                      2,000   5,000         10,000       1,400             14,000           2,800             5,600           8,400              8,400
Corn                      i,500   3,000          4,500         900              4,050           1,700             2,550           1,500                660
Cotton                   15,000   2,500         37,500       2,700            101,250           3,800            57,000          44,250            42,900
Safflower                 9,000   2,000         18,000       1,800             32,400           1,400            12,600          19,800             18,680
Sorghum                  15,500   5,000         77,500         750             58,125           1,600            24,800          33,325             29,545
Fruit trees               4,000  20,000         80,000       2,000            160,000           9,000            36,000         124,000            118,500
Pasture, beef/
fattening             22,000   1.470         32,340       9,00011,700                                       257,400          33,660             29,150
Total                 90,000                372,840         _             868,160              _             487,800        380,360            312,880
Cropping intensity, %: 125
Chicayan
Soybeans                  2,000   2,500          5,000       1,900              9,500            1,900            3,800           5,700              5,700
Vegetables and melons   1,000  18,000           18,000       1,800             32,400           15,000           15,000          17,400             16,020
Beans and pulses          1,000   1,500          1,500       1,800              2,700            1,600            1,600           1,100              1,100
Rice                      2,000   5,000         10,000       1,400             14,000            2,800            5,600           8,400              8,400
Corn                      1,000   3,000          3,000          900             2,700            1,700            1,700           1,000              1,000
Cotton                    1,000   2,500          2,500       2,700              6,750            3,800            3,800           2,950              2,950
Safflower                 2,000   2,000          4,000       1,800              7,200            1,400            2,800           4,400              4,400
Sorghum                   2,000   5,000         10,000          750             7,500            1,600            3,200           4,300              4,300              m z
Sugar cane                2,500 100,000        250,000           80            20,000            3,000            7,500          12,500             12,500              m x
Fruit trees               1,000  20,000         20,000       2,000             40,000            9,000            9,000          31,000             31,000
Pasture, beef
fattening              7,000   1,470         10,290       9,000             92,610          11,700            81.900          10.710              8.742
Total                 22,500                334,290                        235,360                           135,900          99,460             96,112
Cropping intensity, %   132
Total                177,000              1,036,830                     1,678,520                            915,300         763,220            662,048



MEXICO
PAtlUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Cropping Pattern. Production. Costs and Net Value of Production
-------------------- Summsary with Project -
Gross Production                                         Net Value of   Incremental Net
Area      Yields       Production      Prices          Value                    Production Costs               Production   value of Production
Crops                               (ha)       (g/iha      (metric t       nE  $/ton     _MexV 000)             jha)             !2900            0              (Mex$'000)
oa Soybeans                             30,000      2,500         75,000          1,900         142.500                1,900           57 000            85,500            84,648
X Vegetables and melons                  8,000     18,000         144,000          1,800        259,200               15,000          120,000           139,200            72,960
* Beans and pulses                      4,000       1,500           6,000         1,800          10,800                1,600            6,400             4,400             2,320
a. Rice                                 6,000       5,000          30,000         1,400          42,000                2,800           16,800            25,200            25,200
.i Corn                                 4,000       3,000          12,000           900          10,800                1,700            6.800             4,000             2,460
a Cotton                                25,000      2,500          62,500         2,700         168,750                3,800           95,000            73,750            71,050
Safflower                            20,000      2,000          40,000          1,800         72,000                 1,400          28,000            44,000             39,520
Sorghum                              30,000      5,000         150.000            750         112,500                1,600          48,000            64,500             57,570
-. Sugarcane                             3,000    100,000         300,000             80         24,000                3,000            9,000            15,000            13,960
Fruit trees                           8,000      20,000        160,000          2,000         320,000                9,000          72,000           248,000            240,300
Pasture, beef fattening              39,000       1,470         57,330          9,000         515,970               11,7,00        456300             _59670.  52,060
Total                          177,000    _     _       1,036,830         __          1,678,520                               915,300           763,220            662,048
Cropping intensity, 7:             129



MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Produtction. Costs qnd Net Value of Production
Growing Season and Physical Areas in ha
---           Dry Season -------------    -------------------- Wet Season -             --------           --- Dry Seasoni ---
Crops                        JanugSa     February    March  Mari I          y    June    July    August    September    Oct.ober    November    December
Soybeans                                                                     =====30,000===========        --= --===-30, 000O-=_==  =---
,   Vegetables and melons            -  -- =          ==      8,000==================                                                                         - 8000-
3   Beans and pulses                = = ====            -----4, 000===                                                                                       -=4,000=
1S
Rice                                                                                  006,0  =======--  ==== ---6,000 -- ======
Corn                                                                             =-4,000=======-========----=4, 000=== ==  ==---
'0
u   Cotton                                             =====2      ==-=5 ,0OO'==                                 =    25, 000=="  ==-=-          -      =-=25, 000==
Safflower                                                   000=================20,=000=--20,000                                                     ----20,000==
Sorghum                         - =-        =     ==='30,000==                                                                                            30,000=
Sugarcane                                                                                                    ----,0  3,0  _  3,000-==-==3===== ==      ==3,000-
Fruit trees                      -    a-8,000                                                                  5,...........00...,===8000==
Pasture, beef fattening                                                                                    - ---  -3= == =39-,000= =39,000==  -= 39,00-==-==-====---- -39,000-=
Physcial areas in ha                                   137,000                    110,000                         115,000                                 137,000



ANNEX 18
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
The Outlook for Cotton
1.        Cotton is produced in varying quantities in more than 80 countries.
Roughly one-third of the world crop is produced for export in raw (fiber)
form and significant amounts are exported by producing countries as textiles.
The United States, the USSR and the People's Republic of China are the world's
three largest producers, accounting together for about one-half of the world
output. The bulk of the remainder is produced by a large number of develop-
ing countries.
2.        The United States remains the world's leading cotton exporter,
although its share in the world cotton trade has been declining historically.
During the past ten years, U.S. exports accounted on the average for 22 per-
cent of the world's total exports. Over the same period, centrally planned
countries accounted for another 13 percent and developing countries for the
remaining 65 percent. (See Table 1.)
3.        World cotton prices in current terms are forecast to decline by
some 10 percent from recent high levels (1969/70-1971/72) by the end of
the seventies. In terms of Mexican SM 1-1/16," a representative grade of
medium-long cotton which normally accounts for more than 60 percent of
total world cotton output, ithis points to a 1980 price of about 30.0 U.S.
cents per pound, c.i.f. Liverpool. (See Table 2.)
4.        The expected downward trend reflects a number of assumptions:  (a)
that the current high prices are temporary and reflect a demand-supply im-
balance caused largely by a temporary supply shortage; (b) that in the
absence of a decline in prices production will tend again to outpace con-
sumption by the late seventies; (c) that inter-fiber competition will con-
tinue to limit the growth of cotton consumption but that no major break-
through in man-made fiber technology will greatly accelerate recent substi-
tution trends; and (d) that price adjustments will take place within the
framework of a relatively freer, more competitive market. This, in turn,
implies continued competition among some 60 exporting countries (many of
them heavily dependent on cotton exports); absence, in future U.S. price
support and cotton export policies, of the elements which made that coun-
try a residual supplier in the world market and led to recurring stock ac-
cumulation in the United States; and, finally, no international cotton
agreement.
5.        The future growth of world cotton production depends not only on
the natural supply response to change in price but also - and quite cru-
cially - on the cotton policies of the major producers. The United States
and the USSR account together for almost 39 percent of world cotton pro-
duction. The production policies necessarily influence the growth path of



ANNEX 18
Page 2
wolrld cotton supply. In our supply projections we have taken U.S. cotton
output at about 13 million bales and USSR total output at about 11.5 mil-
lion bales. The combined production share of the two countries would
therefore remain roughly the same as during the past five seasons. Should
the U.S. cotton policy change and output stabilize around 10 million bales
and the USSR output remain at about 10.5 million bales, the projected sur-
plus situation would turn, other things being equal, into one of rough
demand-supply equilibrium and lead to prices 5 percent higher than those
forecast in paragraph 3.
6.        Demand uncertainties, however, call for a certain degree of pru-
dence in forecasting cotton prices. World cotton consumption is projected
to grow at an average annual rate of 1.6 percent during the next ten years.
Even this modest growth rate of cotton consumption presupposes some further
improvement in the quality composition of cotton and progress in promotional
activity and, furthermore, that no new breakthrough in the production of
man-made fibers would occur - and lead to a faster displacement of cotton
by man-made fibers.
7.        World cotton demand remained weak throughout the late sixties, par-
ticularly in developed countries, where the general stagnation of the textile
industry and strong competition from man-made (especially non-cellulosic)
fibers led to a decline in the consumption of cotton. The increase in the
utilization of cotton in developing and centrally planned countries only
partially offset the overall decline in developed countries. Between 1966/
67 and 1971/72, world cotton consumption grew at an average annual rate of
0.9 percent, compared to the 2.2 percent per annum of the preceding 11 years.
8.        Competition from synthetic substitutes, moreover, is by no means
restricted to developed countries. In Central America, South America and
Asia, synthetic fibers have already penetrated the market and further in-
roads are expected during the next decade. During the past ten years, while
cotton's share of world total fiber market fell from nearly 66 to 44 percent,
the market share of man-made fibers increased from 29 to 50 percent. Inter-
fiber competition hinges upon two main factors: relative prices and product
performance. Prices of man-made fibers (especially polyester fibers) de-
clined considerably in the past five years, thereby moving price parities in
favor of man-made fibers. Recent high cotton prices, moreover, are likely
to accelerate the trend in substitution of cotton by polyester fibers, par-
ticularly in developed countries. The quality or product performance of
man-made fibers is superior to cotton in some crucial end-uses (e.g.,
apparel) where cotton lacks the "easy-care" properties characteristic of
synthetic fibers (alone or blended with cotton). Although further sharp
declines in the prices of the most important non-cellulosic fibers do not
appear very likely in the short run, the possibility of increased competition
from these fibers still remains strong, given the technical advantages that
man-made fibers have in new high-speed spinning and weaving machines. This
could seriously affect cotton demand and slow down its growth to a very modest
1 percent per annum over the next ten years.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
9.        At projected equilibrium levels of demand, supply and price for
the mid-seventies, world raw cotton exports would experience a growth rate
of around 1.2 percent per annum between 1967-69 and 1975, although develop-
ing countries' exports may grow at a higher rate (between 1.5 and 2.0 percent
per annum). Assuming that world cotton prices move in the late seventies
toward long-term equilibrium levels, world raw cotton exports may continue
to grow throughout the late seventies at approximately the same rate en-
visaged for the earlier period. Export shares, however, become more diffi-
cult to predict, given their dependence on possible future policy actions
by major producing and exporting countries such as the United States and
the US,R.
10.       The export performance and prospects of individual developing
countries will continue to vary depending, inter alia, on availability of
land, trends in yields, quality and marketability of cotton grown, domestic
consumption trends and cotton textiles trade balances. Competition among
producing countries is expected to continue and small producing countries
with limited production alternatives are likely to push output and succeed
in expanding their small shares.
11.       Mexico is a medium-size cotton producer.  It accounts for about
3 percent of world production and 5 percent of world exports. Cotton pro-
duction in Mexico has been declining since the mid-sixties. (See Table 3.)
Substantial reductions in acreage - particularly intense in some growing
areas such as Mexicali, Altamira, Matamoros and Delicias - were responsible
for the fall in cotton output. Yields, on the contrary, increased regularly
throughout the past 20 years and somewhat offset the decline in cultivated
areas. (See Chart 1.) Cotton production in Mexico appears to be constrained
by severe competition for land coming from alternative cash crops (e.g.,
soy beans, wheat). In 1972/73, in spite of the sharp rise in cotton prices,
acreage increased only marginally over 1971/72 and output actually fell with
respect to the past year. Cotton prices, relative to those of competing
cash crops, will to a great extent determine the future amount of land under
cotton cultivation.  Other factors, such as availability of water, will also
have some influence over the choice of crop. Total acreage under cotton
has tended downward throughout most of the post-war period.  (See Chart 1.)
Even considering the fact that recent years may have shown a fall in acreage
below the historical trend and assuming continued government encouragement
to cotton cultivation, total area under cotton is projected to be by 1980
only about 1.1 million acres. Yields on the contrary are expected to in-
crease and to reaclh by the end of the seventies 893 pounds per acre. Total
production of cotton is therefore projected to be by 1980 only slightly
above 2 mi.Llion bales. (See Table 3.)
12.       Domestic consumption of textile fibers in Mexico has increased
at over 5 percent per annum during the past 20 years. Man-made fibers
consumption grew faster (at some 7.5 percent per annum) but still consump-
tion of cotton also expanded at over 4 percent per annum throughout the



ANNEX 18
Page 4
period. Based on income projections for the seventies and income elasti-
cities of demand derived from regression analysis, 1/ cotton consumption in
Mexico can be forecast to grow at an average of 2.0 percent per annum
throughout the seventies and to reach 1 million bales by 1980. (See Table
3.) Exportable supply of cotton can therefore be estimated to be by 1980
at about 1.0 to 1.1 million bales, only slightly above the average of the
past three seasons and considerably below the levels reached throughout
the late fifties and most of the sixties. Mexico's share of world exports
is expected to remain unchanged with respect to the past three seasons.
1/   Income elasticity of demand for all textile fiber was found to be 0.85,
for man-made fibers 1.60, and for cotton 0.50. Cotton consumption was
forecast individually and as a residual after forecasting total textile
fiber coasumption and man-made fiber consumption by 1980. All estimates
converged within a fairly narrow range.



.PAMNEX 18
Table 1
Table IJ  COTTON: RECEmn TRENDS IN WORlD PPODUJUION, iYi'ELIATION AND PRLDE
(rd llion bales)
Average
Year Beginning               1958/59-   1963/6Z   1964/65   1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71    1971/72
Aueust 1                  1962/63
0onsum.tionn
Urnited States               8.7         8.6       9.2       9.5       9.5        9.0       8.2       8.0        8.1        8.0
Western Europe               7.5         7. A      7.2       7.3        7.1       6.7       6.8       6.8        6.8        6.4
Japan                        3.0         3.2       3.ZJ      3.2       3.3        3.11      3.5       3.4        3.2        3.4
Oe.her (excl. c.p.c.)       12.1        13.8      1Zu.5     1Z,.6     15.1       15.8      16.5      17.2       17.3       18.2
Centrally Planr.ed          lS.l       1ZJ.       16.1      17.1      1B.5       18.9      18.9      190        19.6       20.0
.brld Conurtinn            6b         7i.7         7      52.0      53.5        38                 5 1131     55.0
Produc tion
United States               1Z.0        15.3      15.2      14.9       9.9        7.2      11.0      10.0       10.3       10.3
'ther (excl. c.p.c.)        19.0       22.2       23.0      23.7      22.9      2Z.0       26.5      25.9       23.5       28.0
COntrally Planined          1J5        12.9       14.8      16.1      17.3       17.8      17.0      16.4      18.7        18.7
World Production          116.5    5 T          53.0         7  5 0.1   4 99.0           3IJ       52.3                 757.0
Export!
Ur1 ted States               5.0        5.7        4.1       2.9       4.7       4.2        2.7       2.8        3.7        3.2
Cther (excl. c.p.c.)         9.0        10.4      10.6      11.6      10.7       10.3      11.6      12.3       11.2       12.3
Centrally Planned            1.8        1.8        2.1       2.4       2.5       2.6        2.2       2.4        2.6        2.9
Wb~rld Exports a   9        W        17.9         W       zb9       17.9      17. f      6         17.5      17.58
I.a2orts
Japan                        3.1        3.2        3.4       3.1       3.6        3.5       3.1       3.5        3.7        3.6
Western Dvrope               7.0        7.2        6.5       6.8       6.8       6.5        6.5       6.1        5.9        5.9
O+'ier (excl. c.p.c.)        2.8         3.3       3.3       3.4       3.8        3.9       3.7       4.1        4.7        ZJ.5
Centrally Planned            3.         ZJ.0      11.3      1I.2       3.9       3.8        3.7       1.4 41.11               3
'd I rts                 16.2 1718 17.7       iT7        7         i85        17.7      17.8.1-             18.7
Storks Ll
!r-i ted States              8.0       11.2       12.11     114.3      16.9    12.5         6.5       6.5       5.8         4.3
Other Net Exporters          3.7         3.8       3.8       11.2      Z .5      4.7        5,3       6.8       6.8         5.6
Imt Lporters (ex.c.p.c.)-  5.9          5.8        6.8       6.2       5.9       6.1,       7.0       6.6       6.1         5.8
-ent rally Planned           3.1        2.5        3.        1.6       1j.0      11.1       4.1       3.8       3.1
World Stocks              20.7        23.3       60       23        31.3       27.7      22.9      23.7      2
N,-e:  World totals may not add exactly due to rouncing.
/1 August 1 of first year shown.
/2 Including India and afloat.
13  Stocks on August 1, 1972, are estimated as follow3 (in million bales) :  United States, 3.3; other net exporters, 6.5;
net ir:porters, 6.5; centrally planned countries, 3.9; and world total 20.2.
Source:   International Cotton Advisory Committee, C tt)n World Statistics, variouis issues.



ANNEX  18
Tfable 2
Table 2.  COTTONi RECENT TRENDS IN WORLD PRICYS - C.I.F. 14t0TATIuNS AT LIVERPOOL
(U.S. cents per pound)
Origin               Speoification                 1965/66     1966/67     1967/68      1968/69     1969/70     1970/71      1971/72
United States     Orleans/Texas MI"                  26.1         25.1        27.5        26.6         26.3        29.7         35.8
Urn t-ed States   Memphis SM 1-1/16"                 29.3         28.7        33.8        30.4         29.2        31.8        36.6
United Statea     California Sm 1-3/32"              33.14        n.a.        39.8 /I     33.9         31.3        33.3         38.3
Mexico            SM 1-1/16"                          28.3        29.3 /I     31.9        28.9         29.3        33.1         38.2
Brazil            Sao Paolo Type 5, 1-1/32"           25.0 /      24.8        27.8 /1     24.5 /1      24.7 A      30.3 /1      34.8
Pakistan 2        289 F Punjab s.0.                   28.0        26.0        26.3        26.1 /1      27.5        31.3         34-7
Turkey            Isnir St. I Wite, 1-1/16" RG        28,8        28.3        31.5        29.1         27.4        30.7         36.9
Syria             SM 1-1/16"                          n.a.        28.2        32.2        30.6         28.4        31.1         38.8
Iran              Sx 1-1/16"                          28.1 /1     29.0        32.0 /I    30.1 /A       28.2        31.4         38.5
Nicaragua         SM 1-1/16"                          27.1        27.6        30.4         27.4 /1     27.3        31.0         36.0
Creece            SM 1-1/16"                          29.1 /1     28.9 /1     31.4        31.4         28.4        31.3         38.7
Uganda 12         B.P. 52                             31.9        32.0        36.7         36.0        31.2        33.9 /1     n.a.
t;SSR             SM 1-1/16'                         29.0         30.0        33.2        30.4         30.7        33.0        38.2
India /2          Bengal Desi Choice                  25.9        21.8        214.1 /I    26.6         27.4        31.9         30.1
Peru              Tanguis Type 3                      34.0        39.0        37.9        32.6         32.9        38.5         44.2
Peru              Pima No. 1, 1-9/16"                 41.2 1I    143.9        h7.7 /1     148.1        48.0 /I     47.4 11     49.3
Sudan /2          a 5 L                               38.9        33.9        35.2        37.7         38.7        38.8        39.6
Sudan 7           a   S                              43.8         38.2       140.7 /1    144.3         44.0        45.2 L      46.1
'JAR              Dendera F.O.                       39.6         40.4        44.7  -    49.3          49.3        48.5        55.2
UAR               Menoufi F.0.                       49.8         51.3        55.8        62.5         63.2        61.2        64.9
n.a. - no t available.
/1 Averages for lees than twelve months.
/2 From 1967/68 on, shipmont via Cape.
-ce:  International Cotton Advisory Conmittee, Cotton - World Statisttcs, various issues.



ANNEX 18
Tablc 3
Table 3:  MEXICO'S CO7&0UJ SU£PPLY A3IIJ)  ).nTph
1T71/52 TO 1971/72 AND r71l0J1ECfCT10NTJ  * 1980
Area          Yield       Production      I i u!n tion   E.-po rts
(1,000 acres)   (lb./acre)   (...         l,oo bales ...........
1951/52      2,182           280           1,280          315          981
1952/53      1,937           308           1,250          330          988
1953/54      1,863           312           1,215          330          948
1954/55      2,278           380           1,810         385         1,248
1955/56      2,617           410           2,2142        U5          2,018
1956/67      2,157           1,16          1,877          1470       1,304
1957/58      2,264           445           2,106         118o        1.,411
1958/59      2,553           442           2,359          480        1,800
1959/60      1,863           426           1,660          485        1,298
1960/61      2,234           449           2,100          500        1,602
1961/62      1,972           482           1,990         510         1,488
1962/63      2,058           557           2,400         515         1,888
1963/64      1,949           511           2,085         56o         3,1419
1964/65      1,941           587           2,385         600         1,608
1965/66      1,959           638           2,615         650         2,118
1966/67      1,733           618           2,2140        670         1,386
1967/68      1,703           562           2,000          710        1,233
1968/69      1,787           655           2,1t50         685        1,623
1969/70      1,296           646           1,750         o/35        1,221
1970/71        995           692           1,1,140        75           756
1971/72      1,134           723           1,715          735          905
1980/81
(projected)  1,100           893           2,050         900         1,100
Source:  International Cotton Advisory Cormiittea, OotlIon - Wnrld
Statistics (various issues); and IDIRD, ECUonor|!Lc hnalysis
and Projections Department.






ANNEX 18
Chart 1
CHART 1: COTTON, PLANTED AREA AND YIFLDS IN MEXICO
(1951/52- 1971/72)
THOUSAND ACRES                                                                                                                             LB/PER ACRE
2800                                                       -1000
2600 -900
2400 -                                                                                                                                      00
2200 -                                                                                                                                     700
AREA  (Left Scale)
2000                                                                                                                                    - 600
1800                                                               /                                                                       500
1600                           YIELD (Right Scale)                                                                                      - 400
1400                                                                                                                 \_3
1200                                                                                                                   \                   200
1000                                                                                                                                       100
of..ILLILi    I .     I                  I     I      II              I._                       I    I                  I              01 
1951  '52   '5   '54   '55  '56   '57   '58   '59   '60   '61   '62   '63   '6465    '66   '67   '68  '69   '70   '71
'52  '53   '54  '55   '56  '57   '58   '59   '60   '61   '62   '63   '64   '65   '66   '67   '68   '69   '70   '71   '72
World B-nk-7852






ANNEX 19
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Markets and Marketing
Markets
1.        The project would give rise to an increased production of soybeans,
vegetables and melons, beans, rice, cotton, safflower, sorghum, sugarcane,
fruits and beef, as against a reduction in the output of corn from the area.
An analysis of the estimated national production, projected demand and supply
position in 1982 and the comparative position of the proposed project incre-
mental production is given at Table 1. This shows that only in the case of
rice does project incremental production at full development represent more
than the 20% of the gap between projected national demand in 1982 and esti-
mated national production in 1973. Project incremental production of soy-
beans, rice, cotton, sorghum, fruits, vegetables and beef would go towards
meeting expected internal market deficiencies in these products. Only in
the case of safflower is current production above the projected national
demand level for 1982; but the extra output of safflower should not pose
marketing problems since it is interchangeable with other oilseeds for which
an overall deficiency is projected.
2.        According to the national projections given in Table 1, export
surpluses may arise in the case of corn and beans; the project would in fact
decrease the supply of corn and have a minimal effect on the future supply
of beans. It should also be noted that there is an export element in the
1982 demand projections for cotton and sugar, but, these are traditional
Mexican export crops. The annual average of unrefined sugar exports for the
period 1970-1972 was 580,000 tons and this is expected to increase to 820,000
tons by 1976. The cotton situation is analysed in detail in Annex 18, which
concludes that by 1980, Mexican lint exports are likely to be about 1.0 to
1.1 milllion bales (or slightly above the average of the past three seasons)
representing about 5% of world exports. No export market problems for the
likely project production of these crops are anticipated.
Marketing
3.        General.  Adequate attention must be given to the marketing, storage,
processing, and related aspects so that the additional production can be
handled. The present storage capacity in the area is insufficient, and,
while a regional initiative can be expected to correct the situation, efforts
must be coordinated. Government should review marketing and processing re-
quirements and take the necessary steps to meet the needs. The following
paragraphs review briefly the existing facilities and explore the areas that
require study and action.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
4.        Cattle are usually sold "on the hoof" to packing plants in Mexico
City and Monterey. Sugarcane and cotton are the only crops processed in the
region; soybean and safflower are sold to processing mills in the large
cities outside the region. Some initial attempts to export mangoes are under-
way; they are graded and packed in the region and trucked directly to the
border either by the farmers or the packing plant operators.  Transportation
companies provide non-refrigerated truck-ing services for the movement of
produce.
5.        Apart from direct sales by producers of seed cotton, sugarcane and
rice to processing plants, thte normal marketing channels are provided by
middlemen-truckers. These buyers, who collect at the farm gate, frequently
provide credit to farmers, and the prices they pay reflect the cost of the
services they render. Government annually fixes guaranteed prices for key
commodities such as maize, sorghum, safflower, soya and beans, and acts as
residual buyer through the Compania Nacional de Subslstencias Populares
(CONASUPO). For these operations, CONASUPO has warehouse space in Tampico
(15,000 tons capacity) and in Mante (3,500 tons),
6.        Storage.  At present levels of agricultural activity, the Panuco
Region has insufficient storage capacity at certain periods of the year de-
spite the fact that, since the cotton industry peaked in the mid-1960's and
then declined because of pest attacks and bad weather, two out of seven
cotton gins have been left idle and are now used for grain storage. Pre-
liminary and tentative estimates suggest that, >when the project is fully
operational, additional storage capacity of the order of 120,000 tons would
be needed.
7.        Processing.  Of the 487 classified industria.l etablishments in the
vicinity of the project area, maost are in {ante, Paniico, Tamuin and Valles
and are concerned with processing cottonI, sugar and foodstuffs such as tortilla
flour and bakery products.  Owing to tile decii.c in pioduction of seed cotton
and sugarcane, there i.s a surplus ginning and sugar reafning capacity in the
area, which, with improvements and modernJzat on, should be able to handle
easily the expected increase in production ov" these crops under the project.
8.        There are no plants in the region for thte processing of oilseeds
(safflower, soybean and cotton seed) despite the high internal demand for
vegetable oils and cake (as animal feed). With t:>e participation of Nacional
Financiera and Banco Agropecuario, a feasibility report is being prepared
for a group of farmers who are contemplating establishing an oilseed mill
with a processing capacity of 20,000 tons of soybeans per year at a total
capital cost of Mex$12 million (US$1.0 million).  rhis evaluation will have
to take into account the fact that existing milling capacity in other regions
is in excess of current needs and believed to be adequate to meet national
requirements up to 1980, By that date, the growth of oilseed output from
the project (which, at full production, is expected to reach 74,000 tons of
soybeans, 33,000 tons of cottonseed and 34,000 tons of safflower), should
be sufficient to warrant expansion of processing facilities in the project
area.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
9.        Abbattoirs and meat packing plants.  To meet the projected rise in
the regional demand for meat, based on population growth and higher per capita
consumption levels, not only would production have to be increased (as en-
visaged under the project) but also the existing slaughter-houses and the
one meat packing plant in the region would have to be improved and enlarged,
or new units established. This would call for considerable investment. For
example,to modernize the installation at Tampico to enable it to handle 600
head per day would cost an estimated Mex$20 million (US$1.6 million).
10.       Fruit and vegetable packing and processing.  The region has two
small fruit packing establishments, dealing chiefly with mangoes, and two
vegetable packing plants, mainly for tomatoes and onions. Their indivldual
capacities range from 50 to 100 tons per day with storage from 1,200 m to
1,800 m . To handle the increased output expected from the project, this
through-put capacity would have to be increased, and the investment cost is
preliminarily estimated at Mex$14 million (US$1.2 million).
Conclusion
11.       The expansion of output proposed under the project would call for
an expansion and improvement of the storage, transport, packing and processing
facilities (and related managerial capabilities) existing in the Panuco region,
except in the case of sugar and cotton, where there is at present surplus
processing capacity. It is, however, difficult to determine the exact facil-
itie$ that would be required seven to eight years from now. Moreover, it is
assumed that the private sector will, of its own initiative, provide for ex-
pansion of these services, as it has done in other parts of Mexico. Since,
as indicated above, the total investment requirements, particularly in the
processing sector, are likely to be considerable. Government assistance, by
way of credit or otherwise, may well be necessary. If sufficient private
capital is not forthcoming, Government should be prepared to authorize public
investment to ensure that the development of marketing facilities parallels
the growth of production under the project.



I



MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Analysis of Estimated National Production, Projected Demand and Supply and the Project Production
Projected
Estimated             Projected             Projected       Surpluses and   Gap              Project            (6) as
National              National              National   2   Deficiencies    Between           Incremental        percent of
Production 19731'   Production 19821/   Demand 1982-'    1982-4/             (3) and (1)   Production              (5)
(1)                   (2)                (3)               (4)             (5)              (6)              (7)
----------------------------------------------Metric '000 tons-------------------------------____________
Soybeans               6/             240                   488                 609              (121)            369               74              20
Vegetables and melons-              1,140                 1,417               1,7663/            (349)            626               91              14
Beans                               1,060                 1,447               1,205               242             145                4               3
Rice                                  410                   546                 541                 5             131               30              23
Corn                                9,950                13,250              12,385               865           2,435               -               -
Cotton (Fibers)                       400                   555                 9603/            (405)            560               20               4
Cotton (seeds)                        680                   898               1,664              (766)            984               33                3
Safflower                             460                   312                 288                24            (172)              34              20
Sorghum                             2,410                 4,188               4,2053/8/           (17)8        1,7958              130               7
Sugarcane                          33,570                52,7638-            57 '773           (5,010)§/      24,203-              276                1
Fruits7/                              700                 1, 2809/            1,6909/            (410)-           986              154               16
Beef                                1,080                 1,570               2,026              (456)            946               48                5
l/.  Mission estimation, net of waste
2/.  Source:  Mission estimation and Caracteristicas de la Agricultura Mexicana by M.R. Cisneros
3/. Including domestic and external demand
41. (2) minus (3)
5/. According to the Production Table Chapter VI
6/   Tomatoes were chosen as the representative vegetable
7/. Avocado, mango, guayava, papaya and tamarind were chosen as the representative fruits
8/. Conversion factor of 12.5 was used in order to express unrefined sugar in raw sugarcane equivalent
9/. The projections are 1990, since only by that time the project fruits would reach full production.
November 5, 1973






ANNEX 20
Table 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Projected Income  o        Ejido Farms
Without Project      With Project at Full DeveLc2 er.t
Cropped Area N.V.P.        Cropped Area E,.V.P
Crops                                (ha)      (Mex$)           (ha)              (wvex$)
Soybeans                             0.25        178            3J40              9,6o
Vegetables and melons                1.00    13,800              0.90            15,660
Beans and pulses                     0.o3        404            0.45                495
Rice                                  -          -               0.75             3,900
Corn                                 2.40        120            0.50                500
Cotton                               0.43        580             3.00             8,650
Safflower                            1.73        969            2.60              5,720
Sorghum                              2.40      1,512            3.40              7,31C
Sugarcane                             -          -              0.30              1, 50o
Fruit trees                          0.01        110             0.70            21,700
Pasture beef-fattening               1.35        277             3.40             5,202
Total cropped area               1C.00    17,950            19.140            80,597
Native vegetation                 7.00 ,
Total farm size                  17.00                      15.00
Cropping intensity, %                 57                         125
Without       With
Farm Income                                   Project     Project    Increment
-------------  Mex$   -------------
Net value of Production (NVP)                 17,950      80,527      62,577
Anrnual Interest on short-term credit
at 12% p.a.                                  1 ,213     12 038      10,825
Farm family benefit                           16,73751,75



ANNEX 20
Table 2
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Projected Income on 20 ha Private Farms
Without Project               With Project at Full Developmei:t
Cropped Area  N.V.P.               Cropped Area         N.V.P.
Crops                           (ha)       (Mex$)                 ((ha)exS'i
Soybeans                     1.50        1,065                  4.5              12,825
Vegetables and melons        5.00       69,000                   1.2             20,880
Beans and pulses             2.50        2,350                  0.6                 660
Rice                          -            -                     1.0              5,200
Corn                        13.50          675                  0.7                 700
Cotton                       2.50        3,375                  4.0              11,800
Safflower                    9.50        5,320                  3'5               7,700
Sorghum                     13.50        8,505                  4.5               9,675
Sugarcane                    0.05          130                  0.4               2,000
Fruit trees                  0.05          550                  0.9              27,900
Pasture, beef-fattening    7.00          1,435                  4.5               6,885
Total cropped area      55.00       92,405                  25.8             106,225
Native vegetation       42.00                                 -
Total fair. size         97.00                              20.0
Cropping intensity, %         57                                129
Farm Income
Without       With
Project    Project   Increment
-Mex$ -------------
Net Value of Production (NVP)                    92,405    106,225    13,820
Ainual Interest on short-term credit
at 12% p.a.                                   6j673        16,009      9,336
Farm family benefit                              85,732      90,216      4,484
September 24, 1973



ANNEX 20
Table 3
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Projected Income on.20 ha Colono Farm
Without Project     With Project at Full Development
Cropped Area N.V.P.       Cropped Area      N.V.P.
(ha)      (Mex$)          (ha )         (Mex$)
Soybeans                              0.50         355           4-5           12,825
Vegetables and melons                 2.20       30,360          1.2           20,880
Bean and pulses                       0.94         884           0.6              660
Rice                                    -           -            1.0            5,200
Corn                                  5.30         265           0.7              700
Cotton                                O.94       1,269           4.0           11,800
Safflower                             3.80       2,128           3.5            7,700
Sorghum                               5.30       3,339           4.5            9,675
Sugarcane                             0.01          26           0.4            2,000
Fruit trees                           0.01          110          0.9           27,900
Pasture, beef-fattening               3.00         615           4.5            6,885
Total cropped area                22.00      39,35            106,22
Native vegetation                 17.00
Total farm size                   39.00                      20.0
Cropping intensity, %                  57                        129
Without     With
Farm Income                                   Project    Pro.ect    Increment
----------- Mex$ --------------
Net value of production (NVP)                 39,351      106,225     66,874
Annual Interest; on short-term  credit
at 12% p.a.                                  2 669       16 009     13 34°A0
Farm family bernefit                          36 682       90,216     53,534



ANNEX 20
Table  4
PANUCO FIRST STAGE PROJECT
Farm Budget
One Thousand ha 1Livesto-ck Cooperative Farm
Years (1)       (2)        (3)        (4)         (5)       (6-10)
W.sthout                            With Project-------------------
Project
Basic Assumptions
Carrying Capacityr, Al7/ha/year                       1.(        1.3         2.0        3.0        3.0        3.0       3.0
Turnover/ha/year-                                     1.0        1.5         2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0
Number of animal onits per ha per year                1.0        2.o        4.0         6.0        6.0        6.0       6.0
Live weight after fattening, kg/AU                     450         450         450        450        450        450       450
Live weight at purchases, kg/AU                         200        200         200        200        200        200       200
Total live weight sold kg/ha                            450        900       1,800      2,700      2,700      2,700    2,700
Total live weight before fattening kg/ha                200        400         800      1,200      1,200      1,200    1,200
Balance                                                 250        500       1,000      1,500      1,500      1,500    1,500
Losses due to various causes  27.                         5         10          20         30         30         30        30
Net live weight, kg/ha                                  245        490         980      1,470      1,470      1,470    1,470
Farmgate price, live weight, Mex.$/kg                     9          9           9          9          9          9         9
-*--------------------Thousand Mex. $--------------------------
Gross Production Value                                   2,205      4,410       8,820    13,230    13,230    13,230   13,230
Investment costs based on Annex 17, page 2              -       1,700          -          -          -          -         -
Operating costs based on Annexes 15 and
17, pages 1 and 3                                    -        4,000       8,000    11,700    11,700    11,700   11,700
Total production costs                                2,000      5,700       8,000    11,700    11,700    11,700   11,700
Net Value of Production                                    205    (1,290)         820      1,530      1,530      1,530    1,530
Incremental net value of production                     -       (1,495)        615      1,325      1,325      1,325    1,325
NOTES: 
I.  In the case of an ejido farm the area v7ould group 100 ejidatarios for 1]0 ha farm each, or about 67 ejidatarios of
15 ha farm each, but also applies to Colonos and private farmers.
2.   The ejido farm would operate as a cooperative closely supervised by technicians from the PLIMAEPA Extension Service.
3.  AU:  animal units.
1/.  Without the project annually one young steer is bought per ha and sold after fattening.  With the project
in year two, twice a year a young steer is fattened and sold in the year of purchase.
October 19, 1973



ANNEX 20
Table 5
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Agricultural Taxation
Statel/.L/    Feea2i 
Crops                                     Taxes          Taxes         Total
------------Mex$l ha------------
Soybeans                                    36             55            91
Vegetables and melons                      621             -            621
Beans                                       38             52            90
Rice                                        92             -             92
Corn                                        40             75           115
Cotton                                     171             -            171
Safflower                                   41            108           149
Sorghum                                     38             52            90
Sugarcane                                   78             -             78
Fruit                                      216             -            216
Pasture                                    150             57           207
1/ Membership fee to the Associations of the private farmer which is Mex$15
per ha is not included.
2/ Includes sowing license, land, state and crop production taxes.
Note: Current collection of agricultural taxes in the Panuco region is almost
negligible. The Mexican authorities intend to take steps to improve
the situation following the implementation of the project and will
establish proper administrative procedures. The above table shows the
taxes per ha according to current law.






ANNEX 21
Page 1
MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The rate of return -rom the project to the economy has been calcu-
lated on the following assumptions:
(a) Agricultural Output Prices. For export and import - substitution
commodities, i.e. soybeans, rice, corn, cotton lint, cottonseed,
safflower, sorghum, sugarcane and beef, international prices for
1980 1/ have been used. After calculating the equivalent FOB
or CIF prices, al:Lowances were made for local port expenses,
transportation costs and processing costs in order to arrive at
the econonic farmgate price.  The only destination considered
for vegetables and fruits was the domestic market; consequently,
low prices and suitable marketing constraints were imposed to
reflect the situation.  The assumption is a fairly conservative
one, since the export of some fruits and vegetables is considered
as a possibility in the future. The following Table shows the
farmgate prices used in the calculation of both economic rates
of return, and farm budgets.
Farmgate Price Assumptions
Commodity                         Economic           Farm Budget
Rate of Return   (based on Prevailing Prices)
-- - - - --Mex$/ton- ----------
Cotton                                2,750                      2,750
Rice                                  1,100                      1,400
Corn                                    580                        900
Sorghum                                 800                        750
Beans                                 2,500                      1,800
Soybeans                              1,200                      1,900
Safflower                             1,450                      1,800
Vegetables and melons                 1,500                      1,800
Fruits                                1,600                      2,000
Sugarcane                                80                         80
Beef                                  9,000                      9,000
1/   As projected by the Commodity and Export Projections Division of the
Economic Analysis and Projections Department of the Bank.



ANNEX 21
Page 2
(b) Labor Costs. In view of the considerable under-employment
existing in the Mexican rural sector, official wage rates are
considered to be higher than the opportunity cost of labor.
For this reason a shadow price of 50% of the official wage
rate for farm labor was used in the economic rate of return
calculation 1/.
(c) Development Schedule. Physical construction of the Las Animas
and Chicayan Projects would be completed in four years and
Pujal Coy in five years. Agriculture benefits would start to
accrue immediately after termination of physical construction
and would reach full development by the eighth year for Las
Animas and Chicayan and by the ninth year in the case of Pujal
Coy. In the case of fruits, however, production would not
start until the fifth year after completion of construction
works and would not reach full development until five years
later.
(d) Project Costs. The investments and their timings are as
shown in Annexes 8 and 10. To give the economic investment
cost, the items for land acquisition and price contingencies
have been excluded. Incremental operational and maintenance
costs corresponding to the area to be irrigated under the
project in each year have been included in the calculations.
(e) Project Life. For economic analysis purposes, the Project life
has been taken as 40 years.
(f) Project Benefits. These have been calculated considering the
economic farmgate prices and the development schedule (Annex 15).
Project economic benefits are defined as the increments over the
benefits obtainable without the project. Only direct benefits
and their corresponding costs were considered. Annex 15 shows
the incremental net value of production based on current farm-
gate prices. These values have been adjusted for the economic
farmgate prices for produce outlined in this Annex eliminating
the taxes paid from the production cost used in Annex 16 and
making the adjustment mentioned above in labor costs.
Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
2.        Calculated on the basis of the assumptions detailed in para. 1,
the economic rates of return are estimated to be 19% for Las Animas, 20% for
Pujal Coy and 22% for Chicayan. The cost and benefit streams involved in
this calculation are shown in Table 1.
1/   Nacional Financiera uses the same  criteria in its evaluation of
similar projects.



ANNEX 21
Page 3
3.        T'o test the sensitivity of these results to variations in basic
assumptions, the following tests were made:
Rate of Return
Assumption      Change                Las Animas    Pujal Coy        Chicayan
(a) Construction period extended
by one year, investment costs
increased by 20% and incre-
mental benefits starting one
year later                            15%           16%            18%
(b)  Benefits decreased by 25%             12%           12%            14%
(c) Full farm labor costs valued
at official salary rate              18%            19%           21%
(d)  Benefits increased by 25%            25%            26%            29%
(e)  Combined (a) and (b)                  10%           10%            11%
The above mentioned results show that, within a reasonable range of circum-
stances, the risk of not achieving an acceptable rate of return for the
proposed project is low. Cases (b) and (e) are unlikely to happen since the
output price assumptions are already very conservative.






MEXICO
PANUCO FIRST-STAGE PROJECT
Project Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
(Mei$ million)
------------------------------------------------------Years---------------------------------------------------
1     2      3     4      5     6      7      8     9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17          18-40/
Las Animas
Without Project
Production Net Value         36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36    36                  36
With Project
Production Net Value/2       36    36    36    36    76   221   279   283   285   291   301   313   328   322   355   361   361                 361
Investments                  73   348   294   137       4    -       -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -        -
O & M Costs                  -      -      -     -    8.3  11.7  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3              15.3
Incremental Stream          -73  -348  -294  -137    28   173   228   232   234   240   250   262   277   271   304   310   310                 310
Pujal Coy
Without Project
Production Net Value         99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99    99                  99
With Project
Production Net Value/2       99    99    99    99    99   196   409   472   481   482   485   495   511   528   512   566   577                 577
Investments                  55   260   394   297    48    -         -      -     -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -        -
O & M Costs                  -      -      -     -      -   22,6  28.8  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3             37.3
Incremental Stream          -55  -260  -394  -297   -48    74   281   336   345   346   349   359   375   392   376   430   441                 442
Chicayan
Without Project
Production  Net Value        22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22                  22
With Project
Production Net Value/2       22    22    22    22    45   108   134   138   139   142   146   150   156   127   164   164   164                  164
Investments                  14   115   144    44        2    -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -
0 & M Costs                  -      -      -     -       3.9   4.9   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3               5.3
Incremental Stream          -14  -115  -144   -44    17    81   107   111   112   115   119   123   129   100   137   137   137                 137
/1.  Values in this column are slightly lower in the 24th and 34th years for Las Animas and Chicayan and the 25th and 35th years for Pujal Coy
because assumed replacements are taking place in those years.
/2. Gross value of production minus agricultural investment and production costs.
November 6, 1973






MEXICO
Organization of SRH
THE PRESDENT OF THE REPUBLiC
S.ECREAR  OF THE WATER RESOURCE
TAR  11EORMIOIN OF PAPALOAPAR_ 
T    PRIVATE SECRETARY        _    _       TECHOICAL SECRETARY
THE oOUAIISE10N OF THE BA".3 SAS R VER                                   |AIR TRANSPORTATION
THE CORARISSIOS OF THE FUERTE RISER                                                                           IN ,TERNAL COMMS510N OF TlE1
I                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOMINISTRATIOR   |
THE COMM1SSION OF TRIJALTA
WATER COM-ISSION OF TOE BASIN OF MEXICO VALLEY                            DIRECTOR OF TEE PRESS                  CMISO  O PIRLIC
|TOE CORMISSON OF THE STOSIES OF T-E IANOCO RIVER
V ECOSICAL CONSULTATIVE
TOE COOMMIOON TI TEE UTILIZATIOTN OF SALINE WATES
GENERAL COMPTROLLER        |
A| I SUESCRETARY OF P                                                   SUES-SECRETART OF                                                      0T|R:-SSORETOOY OF                                                       SEIROFCA
| PAN ItI                                                                      l  OSR'To,                                                     VE   IY
P-NNING                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEN C. 0Or  IAL
iGP SHAT IG1 S-C
P RIV A T E   T E E R NIC A S   F OIV O T E   T E C O NIC A L                    P RIV A T E         T E C O NIC A L                                    P RIV A T E          T E C A NIC A L~~~~~~~~ft ld   7 4






PRESIDEPOF MEXICO
MINISTER OF HYDRAULIC
RESOURCES, PRESIDENT
OF THE                        N MMISSION
LEGAL ADVISER    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~               AUDVIERMISTRFRPANG
OTHER PUBLIC AND PRIVATE OFFICOA PLANNINGNSTRCMNAIO
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, DEPT.                                                               IO N      OPETTION
AGRARIAN AFFAIRS, BANKS, EO                                                                             ADMiNISTRATION
GENERAL M NA:NER FOR
_  I RRGIGRTION ACTIING
-                      PRESIDENT~~~lu    OF PANUCO
STUDY COMMISSION
ADMINISTRO                     I        N D      T IN URESIDENT/ RRIPRESENTATIVE  |
|            F            |            ]       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN MEXICO CITYl
LEGAL ADVISER            i                     lGADVISER
REGIONAL PLANNING      !    _.                .            RADIO AND|
S A A COMMUNICATIONS        l
|   1    AGRICULTURAL     _IRRILGATlI_OWN
LEN               l      AO                AND RIVER   l       FOR RURALX              PUXLLC UTILTE        OPERTION AND         STTSTC AN            LAN  TENURE
ADIADATION                IRIATO  DISTRICTS               IRRIGATION NT
GNRLSRVICES.
World Bank-8110






Ti  . viii To r  iiA2 GV5 T I Vn;T
>°t,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E  -\  iTe  TAE
-NW PrpsdSoaeRsror
-~~~~ ~ ~ - -.,"b Pnde Canals.,~ : .
DAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEVA
.,ff/z%/aYf      .  0 : -.   . N LAS ANIMAS 
AND RESERVO/|0 1'0  :0''< 4eheo
PROJECT 
PUJAL- COY
ToTns
StatRoadore St-gvvvvi---
0~  r - m   pl t
m-~~ ~                        _     <-e              b 0                                              ,
F..d. C.-                               I:                                                         _      _
X X ' f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iL O               T R
/  5bOJC11e761Z ,f,>as7% ', ' \ \< g ' '' ' 't CH'  AYAN                      DAM   AN
7   - :t WS  <sAX'}t  /                                                 /gA40 tv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REEROI
PRJCkdE. ANS.6COXPOJC  
---  t  Feeer Cal--                   TI     I- ' H-~[ 'r  ',~ '                                                   So}
3= RlVerS KlLOMETERS ' 0 .. , , C//ICAVA~~~~~~~N DAAN
-   h'oods                                                      ,; ,4_ f  : RESERWAR~~~~~~~~~~Chy-.



