RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                Report No. P-659
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT. CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR
GENERAL CONSULTANTS TO THE EAST PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
December 24, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOOIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR GENERAL CONSULTANTS TO THE
EAST PAKISTAN WATER AND POWER DEVELODMENT AUTHORITY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $2 million
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, to finance approximately 50% of the
foreign exchange costs of hiring general consultants for the East Pakistan
1W1ater and Power Development Authority (EPWAPDA) for an initial two year
period. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Special Fund will
join the International Development Association (IDA) in financing this
project. The proposed UNDP Special Fund grant amounts to US $1.9 million
equivalent.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        IDA has financed three water development projects in East
Pakistan; these are Dacca-Demra (11-PAK), US $1 million, Brahmaputra
Embankment (39-PAK), US $5 million, and Chandpur Flood Control (4O-PAK),
US $5.25 million. In each case EPWAPDA, a statitory semi-autonomous body
created by the Government of East Pakistan in 1958 to bring about the
coordinated development of the water and power resources of the Province,
has been the beneficiary. Each project has suffered from essentially
similar problems: poor project preparation, difficulties in acquiring land,
inadequacy of local funds, delays in construction, increased costs and lack
of planning for the rapid utilization of completed works. The Dacca-Demra
and Brahmaputra Enbankment projects have now been completed, but the success
of future projects depends upon resolving these difficulties and, in par-
ticular, on improving the administrative capacity of EPWAPDA.
3.        For the past eight years EPWAPDA has employed general consultants
financed by U.S. AID. In 1965 the Bank, at the request of the Government of
Pakistan, reviewed a Master Plan for water and power development drawn up
by the consultants. The review concluded that the rate of water development
during the next several years contemplated in the Plan could not be achieved
in any case, but that in order to maximize the rate of progress immediate steps
should be taken to improve EPWAPDA's capacity to prepare and implement water
development projects. The Bank and the Government of East Pakistan sub-
sequently reached agreement on a strategy to implement a program of agricultural
and water resources development and the Bank undertook to establish a Bank
Group to assist in carrying it out.



- 2 -
4.        In a atatement to the Executive Directors of September 8, 1967,
recommending assistanee to the Government in the development of its lWater
and Agricultural Development Program and the establishment of a Bank Group
for this purpose, Mr. Woods said .... "the Bank's task will be to assist
the East Pakistan Government and its agencies in determining priorities,
reviewing and advising on development measures and in identifying, preparing
and implementing development projects. Though the Bank's assistance will
be essentially in the field of assistance in program implementation, tech-
nical assistance of many kinds will be necessary and a great deal is already
being provided. Coordination by the Government of the multilateral and
bilaterial technical assistance from numerous sources so as to make the most
of it, will be an important area in which the Bank hopes to be able to
help."
5.        EPWAPDA came to the conclusion that a change in consultants was
desirable and has notified the present consultants that their term of
employment would not be extended beyond February 1969. The problems of
water resource development in East Pakistan are among the most difficult
and complex of their kind in the world and EPWAPDA realizes that it still
needs the services of expatriate general consultants to assist in the
preparation and implementation of the program of works which should be carried
out in the next few years. Furthermore this program is expected to yield
a substantial flow of projects with high priority for Bank Group financing.
It appears appropriate, therefore, that the Bank Group should be associated
with the selection, preparation of the terms of reference and supervision
of the work of the new consultants, particularly as it has been ascertained
that assistance from U.S. AID was unlikely to be available for a further
extended period. As noted above, agreement has been reached with UNDP for our
joint financing of these requirements.
6.        The project, which consists of consulting services to EPWAPDA,
was appraised in April, 1968 and negotiations for the proposed credit took
place between November 4, 1968 and November 6, 1968 with a delegation
comprising Mr. G.A. Madani (Chairman, EPWAPDA), Mr. A.R. Bashir, Economic
Minister, Embassy of Pakistan, and Dr.A.-uz Zaman, Economic Secretary,
Embassy of Pakistan.
7.        The Bank has made 26 loans to Pakistan totalling $517 million
of which 17 are fully disbursed. The Association has made 24 credits
totalling $330 million, of which 6 are fully disbursed. The following
is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Pakistan as of
October 31, 1968:



-3-
Loan/
Credit   Year    Borrower          Purpose                Amount (US $ million)
No.                                                    Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
266     1960   Islamic
Republic of Indus Basin (Mlulti-
Pakistan      Purpose)                  90.0             40.4
(Pakistan)
22     1962   Pakistan      Khairpur Ground Wiater
and Salinity Control             18.0       6.L
39     1963   Pakistan      Brahmaputra Flood
Ehbankment                        5.0       0.3
40      It    Pakistan      Chandpur Irrigation                5.2       0.6
hi            Pakistan      Dacca Wlater Supply and
Sewerage                         13.2      11.6
42            Pakistan      Chittagong Water Supply
and Sewerage                      7.0       5.2
376     1964   Trustees of
the Port of Port Development            17.0             10.2
Karachi
382      '     PICIC         Industrial Development     30.0              0.O
49      "     Pakistan      East Pakistan Education            4.5       1.6
50      It    Pakistan     Wlest Pakistan Education            8.5       5.3
53            Pakistan      East Pakistan Highway             22.5      20.6
54            Pakistan      West Pakistan Highway             17.0       9.1
56            Pakistan      Pakistan Eastern Railway          10.0       2.6
57            Pakistan      Pakistan Western Railway          24.4       0.1
65            Pakistan      Inland Woater Transport            5.2       0.4
76     1965   Pakistan      Agricultural Development
Bank                             27.0       1.1
421      0r I0CIC            Industrial Development     30.0              7.4
63     1966   Pakistan      Foodgrain Storage                 19.2      13.9
87      "     Pakistan      Second East Pakistan
Education                        13.0      12.4
S-1      i     Pakistan      Project Preparation Credit
(Highway Engineering)             1.0       0.3
488     1967   K2SG          Karachi Electric Supply    21.5             12.4
106            Pakistan      Lahore Water Supply,
Sewerage and Drainage             1.8       1.4
496            Pakistan      Pakistan Western Railway   13.5             11.4
509            PICIC         Industrial Development     35.0              29.9
548     1968   Pakistan      Tarbela (Multipurpose)     25.0              25.0
117            Pakistan      Second Agricultural
Development Bank                 10.0       9.6
549      "     Dawood
Hercules     Fertilizer Project         32.0             32.0
Loans/Credits fully disbursed                 222.9  118.0
Total (less cancellations)                  516.9  330.5
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                                114.0
Total now outstanding                       402.9
Anount sold                   21.9
of wihich has been repaid   16.5            5.1    _
Total noaw held by Bank and IDA              397.8  330.5
Total undisbursed                           169.2  1027T      271.7
NOTE: Loan No. 5h9-PkK in the amount of $32.0 million, of which $950,000 has
been agreed to be sold, is not yet effective.



8.        Difficulties of implementation in respect of a number of projects,
particularly in East Pakistan, have made necessary several revisions and
postponements, In general, satisfactory progress is now being made. Approxi-
mately $30 million of the undisbursed amount of $271.6 million is committed.
Of the undisbursed amount approximately $65 million remain in the Indus Basin
(266-PAK) and the Tarbela (548-PAK) Loans. In the current fiscal year
the Second Agricultural Development Bank Credit amount to $10 million
(117-PAK) and a Fertilizer Project Loan (549-PAK) amounting to $32 million
were made. Disbursement of funds in the early months of t-hese two projects
was not contemplated.
9.        Further Bank operations envisaged for the current fiscal
year include a proposed loan of $40 million to the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation. Loan agreements have also been
negotiated for a second fertilizer plant in West Pakistan, $28 million,
and for an associated project to provide natural gas transmission facilities,
$12 million; however their presentation has been deferred as the sponsors
of the fertilizer project are reconsidering its timing. IDA operations
under consideration for the current fiscal year include proposed credits
of $16 million for a telecommunications project and about $20 million for a
third Agricultural Development Bank project. A West Pakistan railway
project, $15 million, is being appraised for presentation when IDA funds
become available.
10.       IFC has made ten commitments in Pakistan totalling $21.8
million. The outstanding commitment, net of repayments, cancellation and
sales of loans is about $17.7 million. IFC is presently considering in-
vestment applications for additional fertilizer projects. The IFC
operations in Pakistan are proceeding satisfactorily.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
11.       Borrower:                     Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:                 East Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority.
Amount:                      Various currencies equivalent to US $2
million.
Purpose:                     To assist in financing the employment
of general consultants for the East
Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority.
Amortization:                 In 50 years including a 10 year period
of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments of 1/2 of 1% from February 15,
1979 through August 15, 1988 and of
1-1/2% from February 15, 1989 through
August 15, 2018.
Service Charge:              3/4 of 1% per annum.



PART III - THE PROJECT
12.       A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
Appraisal Report entitled "General Consultants, East Pakistan Water and
Power Development Authority - Pakistan" (TO-691a) dated December 19, 1968.
13.       EPWAPDA is responsible not only for water resources development
but also for power development and it is important that the general con-
sultants should assist EPWAPDA in discharging its responsibilities for both.
Power development accounts for about half of EPWAPDA's expenditures and con-
siderable assistance is still needed in the fields of construction, coordi-
nation and in improving power market survey techniques. Furthermore,
assistance required to improve EPWAPDA's management and organization should
relate to the central organization controlling the separate water and power
wings as well as to each of the wings. The United Nations Development
Program (Special Fund) has indicated that it would be prepared to finance
the foreign exchange cost of employing the management consultants and
the power wing consultants amounting to US $1.9 million. The Bank would
be Executing Agency for the UNDP.  The proposed IDA credit would cover
the foreign exchange costs of the consultants for the water wing at a
cost of about US $2 million.
14.       The immediate task of the consultants will be to provide EPWAPDA
with specialist staff to carry out those tasks which are at present beyond
its capacity. It is intended that EPWAP.DA's personnel shall be closely
associated with the consultants in the performance of their duties. The
longer range objective is to assist EPWAPDA to build an organization capable
of implementing efficiently its prescribed functions so as to enable its
dependency on consultants to be reduced progressively. This will involve
establishing development priorities, initiating and coordinating basic
data collection and reviewing the reports, studies and recommendations to
EPWAPDA with a view to shaping them into an effective and workable
program.
15.       The planning and implementation of large water projects in East
Pakistan involve the coordination of the development plans of Government
Agencies other than EPWAPDA. A primary function of the consultants will
be assistance in such coordination from the earliest stage of project
development. This approach has been discussed with, and accepted by,
the Government of East Pakistan and the agencies concerned with agricul-
tural and water development. Coordinating the technical assistance being
received by EPWAPDA from outside sources will also be carried out by the
general consultants. It has been agreed to by both the Government of East
Pakistan and EPWAPDA that close liaison between the Bank, and in particular
the Bank's East Pakistan Group, and the general consultants should be
maintained.



- 6 -
16.       The general consultants have been selected on the basis of proposals
requested from a list of consulting firms selected in consultation with
the Bank. Because of the wide variety of technical disciplines required,
the selected firms were asked to submit proposals as the leaders of
consortia. The chosenconsortium, headed by Acres International of Canada,
has completed detailed negotiations and a contract satisfactory to the
Association has been agreed, and is expected to be signed shortly after
the signing of the proposed IDA credit.
17.       The estimated cost of the project is US $6.6 million equivalent)
US $4 million in foreign currency plus PRs. 12.4 million (US $2.6 million)
in local currency. The estimated foreign exchange costs allow for the
employment of the general consultants for a period of two years. The local
funds would be provided by the Government of East Pakistan.
18.       Although, as noted above, the work of the general consultants
should accelerate the flow of projects suitable for financing by the Bank
Group, it will not be related directly to the preparation and engineering of
specific projects, for which individual project consultants will be responsible.
It is proposed, therefore, that the credit should be on the usual IDA terms,
rather than on the shorter terms usually adopted for pre-investment credits
related to specific projects.
19.       EPWAPDA will probably need to employ general consultants for a
period longer than the two years covered by the current proposal.
Arrangements for the further employment of consultants will be reviewed
with the Government in the course of supervising the proposed credit.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AMD AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the draft Project Agreement between
the Association and the Province of East Pakistan, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Pirectors separately.
21.       Except for the terms of lending the draft legal documents
contain provisions generally used for technical assistance projects. The
documernts provide for relending of the proceeds of the credit to EPWAPDA.
22.       Tile Development Credit Agreement provides that the Association
may suspend disbursements and, after a stated period, may premature the credit
should the UNDP suspend the assistance to be provided by it.



- 7 -
PART V - THE ECONOiAY
23.        A Report on the Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Pakistan (AS-136a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 22,
1968. A review of more recent developments is included in the President's
Report for a Second W,1est Pakistan Highway Project (P-651) of November 13,
1968.
PART VI - COI,LIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
2A.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI! - RECOPZEvTDATION
25,       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan in an amount equivalent to US $2,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million United States dollars
(US $2,000,000) to mature on and prior to August 15, 2018,
to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Development
Credit Agreement (Technical Assistance Project - General
Consultants to EPWAPDA) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
and the Association and Project Agreement (Technical Assistance
Project - General Consultants to EPIITAPDA) between the Association
and the Province of East Pakistan, -which have been presented to
this meeting.
Robert S. NcNamara
Attachment                                        President
by J. Burke Knapp
December 24, 1968



