4P- S
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-691a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
GENERAL CONSULTANTS
EAST PAKISTAN WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORJTY
PAKISTAN
December 19, 1968
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1. 00        =  Rupees 4. 762
Rs. 1.00        =   US$0. 21
Rs. 1 million   =   US$210,000
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
EPWAPDA     East Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
GOEP        Government of East Pakistan
IECO        International Engineering Company
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for
International Development



PAKISTAN
GENERAL CONSULTAINTS
EAST PAKISTAN UATER AND POWER DIEELOPMENT AUTHORITY
TABLE OF CONTEN\ITS
Page No.
I.        SUTT4ARY ..............   ..................          1
II.        BACKGROUiD ..........   ...................          1
III.       GENERAL CONSULTANTS FOR EPI.TAPDA   ........         4
A.  Introduction .......     ................         4
B. Scope of 1WJork and Relations with
Bank  Group  .......  ................         5
C.  Staffing Pattern ......     .............         6
D.  Cost Estimates and Financing      .......         6
E.  Type of Credit .....................              7
F.  Selection of General Consultants    ...           7
IV.       RECOMMENDATION,S ........    ................         8
ANNEX 1    Scope of General Consultants' Services
ANNEX 2    General Consultants' Staffing
ANNEX 3    Cost Estimate
ANNEX h    List of Selected Firms
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Mission to Pakistan in
April 1968 consisting of Messrs. Beach and Kirpich, and on the findings
of missions to Pakistan in December 1967 and April 1968 under the East
Pakistan Agriculture and Wrater Development Program.    The report was pre-
pared by iiessrs. Kirpich and Naylor.



PAKISTAN
GENERAL CONSULTANTS
EAST PAKISTAD WATER ADM POTJER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
I. SUIVARRY
1.01      The Government oI' Pakistan has requested assistance in financing
the General Consultants to the East Pakistan liTater and Power Development
Authority (EPMAPDA) and it is recommended that the Association approve a
credit of US $P2 million for this purpose under normal IDA terms.  The pro-
ject would be financed jointly by IDA and the United Nations Development
Program (Special Fund) wThich would provide US $1.97 million in addition to
the IDA credit.
II.  BACKGROUND
2.01      IDA has so far financed three water development projects in
East Pakistan with a total of US $11.25 million of credits. The first of
these (ll-PAK) was in 1961 for the Dacca-Demra project for US 's1.0 million.
The physical works of this project, which will provide partial flood pro-
tection and irrigation in an area of 15,000 acres, are completed and some
of the benefits are being obtained. The second (39-PAK) was for the
Brahmaputra Embankment project in 1963 for US $5.0 million to provide flood
protection to an area of 580,000 acres. Of this, US $4.67 million had
been disbursed by late September 1965. The 135 miles of embankment and
appurtenant structures are now completed and are providing flood protection
to most of the project area. The third credit (40-PAK) of US $9.0 million
was made in 1963 for the Chandpur Project, a combined irrigation and flood
protection scheme covering 127,000 acres. The irrigation features were
dropped in late 1965 and the credit reduced to US $5.25 million. Total dis-
bursements are now US $4.6 million. The remaining proceeds of the credit
are being used to hire consultants to assist in the preparation of a revised
project which would include irrigation. All these projects have been beset
by rather similar problems of poor project oreparation, difficulties over
land acquisition, lack of local funds with consequent lagging construction,
rising costs and lack of planning for rapid utilization of project works
when completed.  Successful implementation of future projects depends on
resolving these difficulties and in particular on improving the implementation
capacity of EF.TAPDA.
2.02      ERPWAPDA is a statutory semi-autonomous body created by the
Government of East Pakistan in 1958 to bring about the coordinated develop-
ment and utilization of the uater and power resources of the Province.   The
work is divided between two 'wings', one for water and one for power,
under the overall direction of the appointed Chairman.   It now has a



regular staff of about 15,500 plus another 16,000 temporary workers.
The "Power lVingi" lhas about o,200 regular employees. and the "Wiater WTing"
about 7,300. Actual expenditures by the W%ater "Ting during the years
1960-65 was Rs 1.2 billion.  The allocation for the rater 'iing for the
Third Five-Year Plan (1965-70) is Rs 2.0 billion, although it appears
that actual expenditures jill be perhaps one-third less.  The total value
of assets and current works in hand for the Power Ting as of June 1965
was about Rs 1.0 billion.  The proposed Third Five-Year Plan expenditure
for the Power ling is Rs 1.8 billion. Although in relation t'o proposed
expenditures EPWAPDA's staff is quite large, the implementation of
projects and programs has been seriously inadequate.
2.03      In late 1963 the Government of Pakistan requested the Bank to
organize a comprehensive study of the water resources of East Pakistan.
In March 1964, the Bank agreed to carry out a review of a Master Plan for
water and power development in East Pakistan then being prepared by
EPWAPDA's General Consultants, the International Engineering Co. Inc.
(IECO). The Master Plan, which was received in the Bank in mid-1965,
outlined a vast program of development involving the investment over a
20-year period of US $1.8 billion 1/ in water development projects and a
further US $1.4 billion 1/ in power projects. By 1985, the Mlaster Plan
contemplated that out of 21.6 million acres of cultivated land, about
eight million would be protected from floods.  Within this protected area,
about half would be provided with irrigation facilities and, in areas
not requiring flood protection, irrigation would be provided for four
million acres. In power, the M*'aster Plan estimated the 1985 demand at
2,352 mw as compared with 100 mwi in December 196h; practically all
generation would be from fossil fuels, either natural gas or imported oil.
2.04      The Bank's review of the Master Plan concluded that while the
ultimate objectives and scope of water development envisaged were
physically possible, the rate of development that it would be practicable
to achieve during the next several years was bound to be much less than
contemplated in the M,aster Plan.  The review recommended that immediate
steps should be taken to improve EPWAPDA's capacity to prepare and im-
plement projects and to collect hydrologic and other data as a basis of
long-range planning for gradual regulation of the very large rivers in-
volved. 'iith respect to power the review concluded that the entire
strategy for developing power facilities was based on too optimistic a
projection of demand and was dubious about the basis of the cost estimates.
It recommended that a second opinion should be sought about the market
for power and that alternative methods of power development and trans-
mission should be properly costed before deciding on a future investment
program.  In addition the review stressed that EPWAPDA's administrative
inexperience and shortage of technical personnel imposed a considerable
restraint on the pace of investment in both water and power development.
2.05      Following this review of the Master Plan the Bank and GOEP
reached agreement on a development strategy for carrying out the plan.
1/   Total equivalent.



- 3 -
The Bank for its part agreed to establish a Bank Group to assist East
Pakistan in carrying out this strategy except that assistance to power
development was excluded. The President's statement to the Board on the
East Pakistan Agriculture and 1-ater Development Program dated September 8,
1967, recommended establishment of the Group and summarized its functions
as follows:
". . . . The Bank's task will be to assist the East Pakistan
Government and its agencies in determining priorities, review-
ing and advising on development measures, and in identifying,
preparing and implementing development projects. Though
studies will be required for particular projects and purposes,
the Bank's assistance will be essentially in the field of
assistance in program implementation.   Technical assistance
of many kinds awill be necessary and a great deal is already
being provided. Coordination by the Government of the multi-
lateral and bilateral technical assistance from numerous sour-
ces, so as to make the most of it, will be an important area
in which the Bank hopes to be able to help.'"
2.06      The main subjects in the water field where it was expected that
the Bank Group would assist GOEP were:
(1) reviewing and recommending steps required to expedite com-
pletion of ongoing projects;
(2) assisting in identifying priority projects for execution
during the Fourth Plan period;
(3) advising on execution of feasibility studies;
(4) reviewing the program of data collection;
(5) reviewing organizations and institutions operating in the
field of water development; and
(6) assisting in formulating a workable program for flood con-
trol and the optimum developliient of the water resources of
the Province.
2.07      The Bank also considered that EPRJAPDA's eYisting General Consultants
were failing to provide EPUJAPDA with adequate advice and assistance. Apart
from the fact that they were prevented by the terms of reference and scope of
work under which they operated from effectively influencing EPWAPDA's over-
all policy (for example, management and organization matters were excluded),
the quality of their personnel was inadequate to the need, and the range of
specialties they covered was too smiall to be effective over the whole of
EPWAPDA's program. Overall guidance of the consultants was not effective.



ERTAPDA recognized these deficiencies and decided to hire new consultants
when the contract wJith IECO expired. As a result ERJAPDA and the Bank
Group held discussions during the course of the first mission of the Bank
Group in November-December 1967 concerning the future scope of work of the
new consultants and the staffing requirements to carry it out. Proposals
were prepared and subsequently elaborated by further contracts with EPWAPDA
over the followfing few months. The final proposals are set out in the
"Scope of General Consultants' Services" which is attached as Annex 1.
2.08      IECO's contract iwith ERPWAPDA expires in February 1969.  Subject
to approval of the credit it is planned to have initial staff of the new
General Consultant in position in East Pakistan during January 1969.
III.  GENERAL ("ONSULTANTS FOR ERIAPDA
A. Introduction
3.01      The following steps are being initiated writh the objective of
improving the performance of the new General Consultants:
(a)  improving liaison between the Bank, in particular the Bank's
East Pakistan Group, and the General Consultants.   This
liaison will be much closer than was the case with the pre-
vious General Consultants. Such close association has been
agreed to by both GOEP and ERPAPDA and is an essential pre-
requisite to the success of the project;
(b) drawing up, in agreement with ERP!APDA. new detailed Terms of
ReLerence for the General Consultants. ERFAPDA has been
assisted by the Association in the selection of a suitable
group of firms to act as General Consultants, and the staff
selected for assignment to East Pakistan are subject to ap-
proval by the Association;
(c) requiring that the General Consultants provide assistance
in management and organization in addition to strictly tech-
nical fields such as engineering and a-riculture. The
previous General Consultants did not provide this;
(d)  coordinating the technical assistance being received by
ER.AAPDA from outside sources, e.g. UNDP, FAO and other bi-
lateral agencies. In the past this assistance has not been
effectively coordinated.
3.02      Although the agreement between the Bank and the Government of
East Pakistan (para. 2.05) was confined to agriculture and water and ex-
cluded power development, it is not desirable to confine the work of



5-
EPFIAPDA's General Consultants to the 'J^ter "Jing alone. On the one han&
the need for consultants is as great in the Power as the l%ater Wing.
Power development accounts for about half of all IEFJAPDA expenditure.  On
the other hand, assistance in irmproving E1irAPDA's management and or-aniza-
tion must cover both the WTater and Power W4ings and cannot be confined to
the Wlater Wing alone. For this reason it was required, in the Request for
Proposals, that the firms who presented proposals should form a consortium
covering the several disciplines involved, hydraulic engineering and agricul-
tural (for the Water !Wing), power (for the Power ,ling) and management (for
both IlTings).
B. Scope of 7!ork and Relations with Bank Group
3.03      Tne immediate task of the consultants will be to provide ERM1APDA
with specialist staff to carry out those tasks which are beyond EPWAPDA's
capability either by reason o F' insufficient personnel or lack of specialized
skills.  It is intended that EPWJAPDA personnel shall be closely associated
with the consultants' personnel in these tasks.   And in certain functional
areas, as specified by E17JAPDA, assistance by the staff of the General Con-
sultants will be performed in a counterpart capacity within the organiza-
tion of the Authority.
3.04      The ultimate lon-range objective of the General consultants is
to assist EPWAPDA to build an organization capable of carrying out
efficiently its prescribed functions and progressively to reduce its depen-
dence on consultants. Before this position is reached, however, the General
Consultants will mainly be engaged in assisting EIPJAPDA to develop and im-
plement sound policies and programs.   This will involve establishing de-
velopment priorities, initiating and coordinating studies or basic data
collection where necessary to support priorities or programs, and in general
reviewing all the reports, studies and recommendations of all previous con-
sultants to ENAPDA with a view to coordinating them into an effective
workable program, and advising how best to implement these recommendations.
The General Consultants would not themselves carry out feasibility studies
for individual projects.
3.05      The planning for and implementation of large water projects in
East Palistan involves coordination of the development plans of Government
Agencies other than ERPAPDA. Until now the degree of coordination at the
planning and implementation stages of project development has been virtually
nonexistent, although the Governmental machinery for this purpose exists.
A primary function of the General Consultants would be the facilitation of
coordination from thle earliest stage of project development through imple-
mentation. This approach has been discussed at various levels of GOEP
and with all agencies concerned with water project development and operation
and the need for coordination has been fully accepted.
3.06      On the power side there has been considerable overestimation of
future electric power demands and overbuilding has resulted, so that the



-6-
capacity of generating plant now in operation and under construction will
probably cover system requirements until about 1974. ERWAPDA needs assis-
tance in improving power market survey techniques in order to prevent over-
building in the future. Assistance is also required in the fields of con-
struction coordination and of operations.
3.07      The financing by IDA/UNDP of consultants working within EPWAPDA
would impose additional responsibilities for supervision upon that part of
the Banlk's East Pakistan Group concerned ivith EPJAPDA and with water pro-
jects. (See 3.01(a).) Although the Bank Group's responsibilities are much
wider than dealing only with EPIJAPDA, it is important that the Group main-
tain close contact with the General Consultants, particularly on that part
of their work which deals writh determining priorities, advising on develop-
ment measures and identifying and studying projects. These are matters of
common concern as well as aspects which will affect the future course of
Bank: Group lending to East Pakistan.
C. Staffing Pattern
3.08      The selected consultants will initially provide a staff of
39 resident experts, of which 20 would be in the Water Wing, 13 in the Power
Ing and 6 (for coordination and management) serving both IJings. A list of
the positions is given in Annex 2. The initial staffing list was prepared
after discussion between the Association and EFW,APDA, and with consultants
presently assisting EFJAPDA and after visits to projects now in operation
or under construction. The final list given in Annex 2 represents the initial
staffing agreed to between EPWAPDA and the selected consultants with the
concurrence of the Association.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.09      The estimated cost of the provision of General Consultants ser-
vices for a two-year period is detailed in Annex 3. This estimate is sum-
marized below:
Rupees (million)       US $ (million)
Item                            Local  Foreign  Total   Local  F'oreign  Total
Resident Staff                   9.28   13.04   22.32    1.95    2.7h     4.69
Hlome Office Staff               0.37    2.05    2.h2    0.08    0.h3    0.51
Pakistan Staff                   1.20     -      1.20    0.25     -      0.25
Other Costs and Contingencies    1.75    3.84    5.59    0.37    0.80     1.17
Total Project Costs             12.60   13.93   31.53    2.65    3.97     6.62
3.10      The proceeds of the Credit would be relent by the borrower to
the Government of East Pakistan on the same terms as it obtains the Credit
from the Association.  In turn the latter will relend to EFTAPDA on the



-  7  -
same terms. Finance from UJNDP is on a grant basis. ERJAPDA has made pro-
vision to meet local currency costs out of its annual bud-et which is pro-
vided by the Government of East Pakistan. EPFWAPDA would also provide counter-
part personnel and facilities such as oflice space.
3.11      Disbursement of foreign currency by the Association would be
based on monthly billings of the General Consultants with respect to per-
sonnel and overhead costs and on actual invoiced costs for other items.
3.12      The services ol- the General Consultants may be needed for as
long as 10 years. The proposed Credit covers an initial two-year period
only.  If supervision of the Credit indicates that the General Consultants
are performing their duties satisfactorily and demonstrably improving the
implementation capacity of EPJAPDA, proposals for financing the employment
of consultants for an extended period would have to be considered.
E. Type of Credit
3.13      Because the scope of the work is so broad, resembling much more
closely the assistance to the Pakistan Planning Commission being given by
the Hlarvard Advisory Group, who are now financed by UiDP, than the usual
sector and feasibility study, it is proposed that the terms of Credit should
not be those of a normal technical assistance Credit. It is accordingly
recommended that the proposed Credit be considered for normal IDA financ-
ing.
3.14      The United Nations Development Program (Special Fund) has stated
that it is prepared to finance the -foreign exchange cost of the management
consultants and the Power l'ing consultants at a cost of about US $,1.97
million.  The Bank would be executing Agency for UNDP. The IDA Credit
would cover the foreign exchange costs of the consultants for the !UTater
l-ing, at a cost of about US $2 million.  The UNDP funds will be adminis-
tered by the Bank, who -will account to UNDP for their disbursement. They
will be disbursed under the same procedures as followed for IDA disburse-
ments (see para. 3.11).
F. Selection of General Consultants
3.15      EPWAPDA's "Request for Technical Proposals" was sent to a list of
firms prepared in consultation wzith the Association.  This list is attached
as Annex b. The firm finally selected by LRJAPDA, with the concurrence of
the Association, was Acres International (Overseas) Ltd.   Because of the
several technical disciplines involved in the scope of work, and because
EIThL'\PDA requested that tire work should be done by a consortium of firms
rather than by a single firm, Acres International will be joined in pro-
viding General Consultants services to E?U:JAPDA by International Land
Development Consultants N.V. (ILACO) of Arnhem, Holland and Booz Allen and
Hamilton Inc., lianagement Consultants of UWashington, D.C.



- a -
3.16      Ne-otiations over the Contract between EPWAPDA and Acres
International are substantially coio,,pleted. Subject to the signing of
this Contract, to thle approval of UHiDP financing by the Governing Council 1/
and to approval o-f" the Credit, it is olanned to start positio-ning staff
in Dacca in January 1969 in order to ihave a period of overlap writh the
outgoing General Consultants.
IV. REMO1,EHNDATIONTS
4.01      The proposed project of teclnical assistance is soundly con-
ceived and w*ould form an adequate basis for an IDA Credit of US $2.0 million
on nor^,mal IDA terms. An adequately qualified group of firms headed by
Acres International (Overseas) Ltd. has been selected by ER'IAPDA to carry
through this assistance and they have been approved by, the Association.
The Credit effectiveness would be contingent upon approval of U\DP financing
by the Governing Council.
4.02      During negotiations, it was agreed that:
a)  the Government of last Pa'.;istan would provide such local
Junds as were necessary to carry out the project;
b)  the Government would concliude a contract t,'ith the General
Consultants satisf'actory to the Association;
c)  the Government of Pakistan would pass on the proceeds of
the Credit to the Government of E st Palkistan on the same
terms as they were received from the Association and that
they would be relent to EP.'APDA on the same terms.
1/   The Governin.- Council will meet from January 9 to 23, 1969.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
GETERAL CONSULTAINTS
EAST PAKISTAN NiATER AND PO1EMR DEVELOPM1ENT AUTHORITY
SCOPE OF GENERAL CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
A. General
1.        The General Consultants will act in an advisory capacity to
EPW1APDA at all levels. The General Consultants will be primary advisers
to the Chairman and the Authority with full access to the Chairman for
review of all programs and technical policy-matt-ers-;----E-PIAPDA will keep
the General Consultants fully informed where assistance is necessary, while
the General Consultants will keep the Authority advised, through the
Chairman, where actions, changes or decisions appear necessary.
2.        The ultimate long range objective of EPV4APDA's Consultants is
to assist EFWAPDA to build an organization capable of carrying out
efficiently its prescribed functions and to progressively reduce its
dependence on consultants.  Thile efforts and functioning of the General
Consultants shall be directed to the accomplishment of this long range
goal, the immediate need will be to accomplish those functions which are
beyond the capability of the Authority by reason of insufficient personnel
or lack of specialized skills. Personnel of the General Consultants and
the Authority will be associated in the closest possible arrangement to
meet these requirements.   Training of EP5IJPDA personnel will be of the
on-the-job type through seconding ERWAPDA personnel to the General Consultants
or by other means.
3.        In carrying out these services, the General Consultants will
review all the reports, studies and recommendations of all the consultants
who have been advising EPJAPDA, with a view to coordinating them into an
effective workable pattern and advising on means of implementation of the
recommendations.
4.        For certain functional areas as may be specified by the Authority,
assistance by the staff of the General Consultants wiill be performed in a
counterpart capacity within the organization of the Authority. The counter-
parts will be integrated into specified functional areas but at the same
time they will retain their identity as members of the General Consultant's
staff. Counterpart arrangement will mean providing necessary assistance by
the General Consultants' staff directly to the appropriate staff of the
organization to which he is attached.
5.        The General Consultants will provide such services in their home
office as necessary to support the permanent field staff in East Pakistan.
If the General Consultants, at the request of the Authority, provide
supplementary staff in East Pakistan in addition to the permanent staff,
this wzould be covered under a separate contract.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        The General Consultants jointly with the appropriate staff of
the Authority will be responsible for co-ordinating the work of other
specialized consultants including monitoring and evaluating consultants
activities and advising the Authority on problems and progress.
B. Scope of Work
The General Consultants will furnish the following services to
EPWAPDA:
1.  Authority.  Advise and assist in:
a) Formulation of basic policy in water and power development.
b)  Formulation of plans and programs for implementation of
long range developments including such revisions as may
be appropriate in the M4aster Plan.
c) Developing general programs and priorities for immediate
requirements in the fields of water and power development.
d) Preparation of the annual development budget program, five-
year plans and estimates of foreign exchange requirements.
e) Preparation of economic studies and reports.
f) Preparation of loan applications in proper form for the
purpose of negotiating foreign financial assistance in the
preparation of documents for Government actions.
g) Negotiations with international organizations such as the
World Bank, USAID, Export-Import Bank, United Nations and
others.
h) Training. General Consultants shall assist the Authority
in the following training program:
(i) In-Service Training: The General Consultantst
personnel shall exercise effort to impart knowledge
and techniques to Authority personnel by close
association in carrying out the development program.
(ii) Special Training: The General Consultants shall
initiate special program training programs in
specific subjects as circumstances will warrant.
The General Consultants shall participate in the
development of technical training programs to
include identification of needed categories, skills
and numbers, methods and means. The General Consultants '
personnel as available may be selected to conduct
training in specific subjects at the Kaptai Engineering
Academy and similar institutions.



ANTNEX 1
Page 3
(iii)  Foreign training:  The General Consultants shall
administer a program of training for selected
personnel sent to foreign countries for special
training as requested by the Authority. The General
Consultants shall be responsible for training of
Authority personnel at its home offices.
2. Service Wing. (Mechanical Equipment, Stores and Dredger
Organization.)
The Service Wing is responsible for EPWAPDAts Mechanical Equipment,
Stores and Dredger Organization. This includes management, training,
purchasing, maintenance and operation, training of technicians, storing and
handling of spare parts and storage and handling of material and equipment
of the lWater and Power IWings.
a) Provide assistance in the management and operation of
materials and supplies handling and control systems.
b) Provide assistance in developing appropriate rental rates
for use of mechanical equipment.
c) Provide assistance in the selection and monitoring of
other consultants engaged by EPWAPDA to support the
Service W4ing.
d) Identify problem areas and impediments in the operation
of the Service WTing and develop means to overcome these
difficulties.
e) Provide other Consultant services as may be required for
the efficient and effective operation of the Service Wling.
3. Water Wing.
The Water Wing is responsible for flood control, drainage,
irrigation, prevention of saline water intrusion and reclamation, in a
co-ordinated program for the development and control of East Pakistan's
water resources.
a) Management and Organization
(i)  Provide assistance in developing an efficient
organization to plan, finance, construct, operate
and maintain water development projects to meet
the needs of the province.
(ii)  Provide assistance in the selection and direction of
other consultants engaged by EPtWAPDA to support the
program of WMater Wing.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(iii) Provide assistance in developing a program-control
and project-control system to furnish construction
and operating data to management on a regular basis.
b) Basic Data Collection
(i)  Advise and assist the organization responsible for the
collecting, analyzing and publishing of data on hydro-
logy, floods, flood damages and related functions.
(ii) Provide advice and assistance to directorate responsible
for activities in groundwater and engineering geology.
(iii) Provide advice and assistance relative to mapping and
aerial photography which involves liaison with the
Survey of Paldstan.
(iv) Provide assistance to the testing and engineering
laboratories in developing their technical capabilities
in the areas of water development.
c) Project Planning
(i)  Provide assistance in planning the program of capital
projects to provide viable, economic and workable
plans for the management of the rivers and other
Nater resources of East Pakistan including but not
limited to irrigation, drainage, flood protection and
river training.  This may include revision and/or
updating of existing projects and plans such as the
Master Plan referred to in the Introduction.
(ii) Provide assistance in soils technology, agronomy and
agricultural economics related to planning, developing
and operating water projects.
(iii) In cooperation with the Bank Team, develop criteria for
economic evaluation of projects including their phasing
so as to achieve optimum economic results.
d) Engineering Design
(i) Provide assistance in developing the organization and
technical capability to design and prepare plans and
specifications to carry the foregoing program.
e) Construction
(i) Provide assistance in the establishment and development
of a project management organization for the construction
of water projects.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(ii)  Review recommendations with respect to award of
construction contracts if required and develop
construction standards.
f)  Operation and I4aintenance
(i) Provide assistance in establishing and developing an
organization responsible for operation and maintenance
of completed water projects.
(ii) Develop and review operation and maintenance instructions,
procedures and manuals for completed water projects,
where necessary.
(iii) Provide assistance in evaluating the utility of completed
and operating water projects.
g) Other
(i) Identify problem areas and impediments in the operation
of the Water Wing and develop means to overcome these
difficulties.
(ii) Provide other consulting assistance necessary to the
efficient and effective operation and development of
the EPWAPDA Water Wing.
4. Power Wing.
The Power Wiing is responsible for the planning, financing,
budgeting, engineering and design, construction, operation and maintenance,
commercial operations and business management of the supply of electric
power by East Pakistan WAPDA. This includes procurement, storage, handling
and control of equipment, material supply and spare parts, training and
development of personnel, accounting, establishment of rates, meter reading,
billing and collecting, etc.
a) Management and Organization
(i)  Provide assistance in developing an efficient
organization to plan, finance, construct, manage,
operate and maintain EAFAPDA's electric power
system in accordance with sound utility practice to
meet the needs of the Province, efficiently and
economically.
(ii)  Provide assistance in the development and installation
of an accounting system adequate to provide operating
data and otber information to the management on a
daily, monthly and yearly basis. This would include
the preparation of annual operating statistics to permit
a critical review of operating efficiency.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(iii) Provide assistance in developing a purchasing
department and an inventory control system.
(iv) Provide assistance in the selection and monitoring
of other consultants engaged by EPWAPDA to support
the program of the Power Wing.
(v) Provide assistance in establishing rates and rate-
making policies, rules and regulations pertaining to
the provisions of electric service.
(vi) Provide assistance in devising an effective system
of billing and collection and commercial business
offices for the marketing of power.
b) Engineering
(i) Provide assistance for the building up of a proper
planning organization capable of planning the
continuing development of the power system in East
Pakistan, including continuous updating of existing
plans, with special emphasis on the correlation of
planned development with the system's requirements
as determined by systematic power market research.
(ii)  Provide assistance to the Central Engineering Design
Organization to improve its design capability.
During the initial two-year period such assistance
should be limited to the design of distribution
system and transmission lines, to the establishment
of construction and equipment standards and to the
preparation of standard designs and specifications.
(iii)  Provide assistance to the local engineering offices
in design and supervision of construction of service
connection facilities and locally constructed
distribution extensions.
c) Construction
(i)  Provide assistance in developing a project management
organization for the construction of power projects,
including development of inspection manuals and
procedures.
(ii)  Review recommendations with respect to the award
of construction contracts if required and develop
construction standards.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
d) Operation and Maintenance
(i) Provide assistance in the efficient operation and
maintenance of generating facilities, existing and
under construction.
(ii) Provide assistance in developing transmission,
distributicn and substation operation and maintenance
divisions at the local level.
(iii) Develop operation and maintenance instructions,
procedures and maruals for generating stations,
transmission and distribution equipment and systems,
substations and equipment including laboratory and
workshop facilities.
(iv) Provide assistance in establishing and developing a
power system control organization, including a load
dispatching center, system protection division and
power plant operation division.
(v) Provide assistance in developing the organization and
skill for the testing, calibration, repair and
installation of meters and relays.
e) Other
(i) Identify problem areas and impediments in the operations
of the Power W,ing and recommend means to overcome
these difficulties.



AiNTEX 2
Page 1
GEINERAL CO]:SULTA-NTS
EAST PtIKISTAN W1ATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
GE'-.ERAL CONTSULTANTS' STAFFING
The following staff positions would be provided by the General
Consultant:
A. General lianager's Office
1. General Manager     .,-,                            1
2.  Office IManager
B. iManagement Specialists
1. Senior Hanagement Specialist
2. Trainin,, Specialist
3. Accounting Specialist
4. Program Control and Coordination
Specialist
C. Construction Management, 1Water ',ing
1. Chief Construction Engineer
2.  Construction Engineer
3.  Equipment Specialist
D.  Planning, W later Wing
1. '.W.Tater Section IIead
2. River Control Engineer
3. Irrigation and Drainage Engineer
4. Irrigation and Drainage Engineer
5.  Senior Hydrologist
6.  Hydrologist
7.  Regional Planner
8.  Regional Planner
9.  Senior Economist
lO._ A,,ricultural Economiist
<l2. Agronomist.
13. Survey and.1Mapping Engineer
E.  Engineering Design, W.ater Win-
1. Chief Design Engineer
2.  Civil Engineer
3. Soils and Foundations Engineer
4. Mechanical Engineer
_       _



2-                            ANINEX 2
Page 2
.Poer ''ing,
1.  Power Section Head
2.  Economist (Powjer Engineering)
3. Utilities Management Engineer
4.  System Planning Engineer
5. Commercial Engineer (Power Rates and Tariffs)
6. Generation Engineer (Construction/Operation)
7. Engineer (Electrical Design and Standards)
8. Stock and Inventory, Control Expert
9. Transmission and Distribution Engineer
10.  Contracts and Snecification Engineer
11.  Protection Engineer
12   Engineer (TIeters, Relays and Protection
Services)
13. M4aintenance and Safety Engineer
N.B.  UiIDP financing covers costs associated wJith A, B and. F.
IDA financing covers costs associated iwith C, D and E.
We                 /          ('
-             39                        - 3 s1-   2  1
7 j-2~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I
Rs~                                  -' Y.  1   2 * I _1
_ ~~A. _ . s. 
'l-~~~~~~ -.-- 
~~~~~~3
c~~~A



ANINEX 3
Page 1
GEI.NERAL COl\JSULTAfTTS
EAST PAKISTAN W^lATER AITD PO'.T7R DEVELOPilNIJT AUTHORITY
COST ESTIIATE
A. Foreign Currency and Allocation Between UNDP and IDA:
Us $
UTMDP         IDA        TOTAL
Resident Lx' arts /                       1,421,800   1,317,600  2,739,400
Home Office Backup  210 man months 2/       214,200     214,200    428,400
Travel                                       35,500      37,6002/  123,100
Household appliances for resident staff        -         50,000     50,000
Freihbt                                      45,800      45,800     91,600
Aircraft                                       -        150,000    150,000
Vehicles                                     90,000        -         90,°00
Niscellaneous and contingencies             116,500lo/  18h,800    301,300
Total $         1,973),800  2,000,000  3,973,300
B.  Local Currency                                    Runees
Resident Experts 832 man months Q Rs 11,150           9,280,000
Visiting Experts  83 man months !3 Rs  4,500            370,000
Pakistani supporting staff                            1,200,000
Aircraft M.intenance and Operation                    1,000,000
Travel                                                  250,000
Contingencies                                           500,000
Total Rs.                  12600O00
1/ Allocated between UNDP and. IDA as shaown in Annex 2.
_/ Divided equally between UNDP and IDA.
3! E-AA2D wrill pay part of ':!ater !-.1ing Staff travel costs in rupees.
T~/ Including US $36,000 for Banlc expenses as UIRDP Executing Agency.



ANNEX h
Pa-e 1
GEHERRAL 'AOJ.,SULTAJUTS
EAST PAK",ISTAN WATER I: POUZR DEVgLOPNENT AUTHORITY
LIST OF S7ELCTED FIRMS
In view of the several disciplines involved, the request for
Proposals required that the General Consultants slhould be provided by a
consortiurm of firms rathler thlan a single firm.  The followsing firms were
selected. as capable o_ leading a consortiuri and were invited in mid--lay
1968 to submit proposals.
Acres International, Co.nada
Developnierit and Resources Corporation, U.S.A.
Harza Tigineering Company International, U.S.A.
Italc on.su].t, Italy
Nedeco, The Net'hierlands
Sir IIurdoch lNcDonald, U.K.
Tippetts-Abbett-ic Carthy-Stratton, U.S.A.
Proposals wrere received from all these firms except Italconsult
and Tippetts-.Abbett-i:lcCarthiL'-Stratton.
In August 1968oi, Kooks and RIhein-Ruhr, Germany, were also invited
to submit proposals by October 1.



