CREDIT NUMBER 136 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project-
General Consultants to EPWAPDA)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 136 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project-
General Consultants to EPWAPDA)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1969


﻿Brurtop~ment Tlr6itArrun
AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1969, between the
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President
(hereinafter ;alled the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DE-
VELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
TWHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association
and the United Nations Development Programme (Special
Fund) to assist in the financing of a technical assistance
project to provide consulting services to the East Pakistan
Water and Power Development Authority (EPWAPDA)
in the Province of East Pakistan;
WHEREAS the United Nations Development Programme
(Special Fund) has indicated that it will assist in financing
the cost of consultants' services to the Power Wing of
EPWAPDA and management consultants' services to
EPWAPDA;
WHEREAS the Province of East Pakistan will, with the
Borrower's assistance, cause the East Pakistan Water and
Power Development Authority to carry out the said Project
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Province of East Pakistan the proceeds of
the development credit provided for herein and the pro-
ceeds of the grant to be made to the Borrower by the
United Nations Development Programme (Special Fund);
and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a develop-
ment credit available on the terms and conditions provided
herein and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and the Province of East Pakistan;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended Febru-
atry 9, 1967, ith the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said Development Credit Regula-
tions No. 1 as so modified being hereinafter called the
Regulations) :
(a) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
the Project Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement".
(b) Paragraph 5 of Section 9.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan, acting by its President."
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a) "Province" means the Province of East Pakistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and the Province of even date herewith,
providing for the carrying out of part of the Project and
shall include any amendments thereof made by agreement
between the Association and the Province.
(c) "Special Fund" means the United Nations Develop-
inent Programme (Special Fund).
(d) "EPWAPDA" means the East Pakistan Water and
Power Development Authority established under the East
Pakistan.. Water and Power Development Authority Ordi-
nance, 1958.


﻿5
(e) "Consultants" means the consultants referred to in
Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement.
(f) "Foreign currency cost" means expenditures in cur-
rencies other than the currency of the Borrower.
ARTIOLE II
The Credit
SECTIox 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a devel-
opment credit in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the Regulations and in accord-
ance with the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agree-
ment, as such allocation shall be modified from time to
time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by
further agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account:
(i) such amounts as shall have been expended for the
reasonable foreign currency cost of goods required
for carrying out the Project; and
(ii) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required to meet payments to be made for
the reasonable foreign currency costs of goods re-
quired for carrying out the Project.


﻿6
(b) No withdrawals by the Borrower from the Credit
Account shall be made on account of expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement.
SEcTION 2.04. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1o) per amum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTIoN 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15
and August 15 commencing February 15, 1979 and ending
August 15, 2018, each installment to and including the
installment payable on August 15, 1988 to be one-half of
one per cent (  of 19{) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per
cent (1 V 7) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SEciON 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit
Agreement.
SEcrIoN 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods, other than services of the Consultants,


﻿7
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
as set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits", published by the
Bank in February 1968, and in accordance with such other
procedures supplementary thereto as shall be agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, and (ii) any con-
tract for the procurement of such goods shall be subject
to the approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively iii carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound financial and administrative prac-
tices and shall make available, promptly as needed, all
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action which shall be
necessary on its part to enable the Province to perform all
its obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not
take any action that would interfere with the performance
of such obligations by the Province.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to the Province on the same financial
terms as those of the Credit except that the principal
amount of, and service charges on, the credit provided for
in such relending shall be payable by the Province in the
currency of the Borrower.


﻿8
(b) The Borrower shall make available to the Province
the proceeds of the grant to be made by the Special Fund
to the Borrower for the carrying out of the Project.
SECTIoN 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall p)romptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere wilh, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTiox 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from  all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.05. This Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations or in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)
of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower,
then at any subsequent time the Association, at its option,
may declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and p)ayable immediately, and upon any such
declaration such principal shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in this Development Credit Agree-
ment to the contrary notwithstandino-
SECriON .02. The following are specified as additional
('Vents for the purposes of paragraph (k) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations:
(a) The Province shall have failed to perform any cove-
nant or agreement under the Project Agreement;
(b) The Special Fund shall have suspended all assistance
to be provided by it under the Plan of Operation re-
ferred to in Section 6.01(b) hereof, or the Special
Fund or the Borrower shall have given notice of an
intention to terminate pursuant to Section 9.02(b)
of the Plan of Operation.
(c) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or dis-
establishment of EPWAPDA or for the suspension
of its operations, without the consent of the Asso-
ciation.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b) of the Regulations:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Province have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b) the Plan of Operation betwe(  the Borrower, Spe-
cial Fund and the Bank has been duly executed and
has become fully effective and binding on the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized and ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Province and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Province in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Plan of Operation referred to in Section
6.01 (b) hereof has been duly authorized and rati-
fled by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding obli-
gation of the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. If this Developmenc Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and e,Tect by April 30, 1969,
the Development Credit Agreement and all the obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Asso-
ciation, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Soetion.


﻿11
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and
the Province of such date.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1971,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 7.03. The Secretary to the Government of Paki-
stan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated for the pur-
poses of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿I
12
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ISLAMIC RFPTBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. R. BASHIR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                        Dollar Equivalent
L Consultants' Services for Part A
of Schedule 2 of this Agreement          1,700,000
II. Aircraft and Equipment                    200,000
III. Unallocated                               100,000
Total          2,000,000
1. If the estimated cost of the items included in either
of the Categories I or II shall increase, an amount equal
to such increase will be reallocated by the Association, at
the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Cate-
gory III, subject, however, to the requirements for con-
tingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect of
the cost of the items in the other Category.
2. If the estimated cost of the items included in either
of the Categories I or II shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for, such
Category will be reallocated by the Association to Category
III.


﻿I
14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project consists of:
1) the formulation, development and implementation by
EPWAPDA with the assistance of General Consult-
ants of a basic policy, as well as plans and programs,
for water and power development; and
2) the development by EPWAPDA with the assistance
of General Consultants of an efficient organization to
plan, finance, construct, operate and maintain water
and power development projects to meet the needs
of the Province.
The General Consultants' assistance on the Project is
divided into the following parts:
A. Services to the Water Wing of EPWAPDA with the
objective of providing assistance in the following fields:
i) management and organization;
ii) basic data collection in the fields of engineering,
hydrology, agriculture and mapping;
iii) project planning and program formulation for irri-
gation, drainage, channel improvement, flood pro-
tection, river training and agricultural develop-
ment;
iv) engineering design;
v) project construction;
vi) operation and maintenance of completed projects;
vii) economic evaluation of project plans and programs;
viii) co-ordinating the work of other consultants of
EPWAPDA; and
ix) other matters relating to the efficient administration
and operation of the Water Wing.


﻿15
B. Services to the Power Wing of EPWAPDA with the
objective of providing assistance in the following fields:
i) management and organization;
i) engineering planning and power market survey
techniques;
iii) project construction;
iv) training of engineers and operating personnel;
v) operation and maintenance of completed projects;
vi) economic evaluation of project plans and programs;
vii) co-ordinating the work of other consultants of
EPWAPDA; and
viii) other matters relating to the efficient administra-
tion and operation of the Power Wing.
C. Services to all parts of the EPWAPDA management
with particular reference to:
i) in service and other special types of staff training;
ii) improvements in accounting procedures and inven-
tory control for management information; and
iii) development of a program-control and project-
control system to furnish construction and oper-
ating data for management.


