CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 343 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 15, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 343 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 15, 1972


﻿A
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 15, 1972, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) On March 6, 1969 the Association agreed to make available
a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 145) to assist in the financing
of a project (hereinafter called  the Telecommunications Project) for the
modernization and expansion of telephone facilities partly in areas which are within
the territories of the Borrower-
(B)   On December 29, 1971 withdrawals from the credit account opened
by the Association under Credit No. 145 were suspended with reference to those
parts of the Telecommunications Project which were to be carried out in the
aforementioned areas;
(C)   The Borrower has requested the Association to resume its assistance
for the continuation and completion of the aforementioned parts of the
Telecommunications Project, as modified as hereinafter set forth, and to include
therein provision for repayment to the Association of part of the principal amount
of Credit No. 145 withdrawn from the credit account opened by the Association
thereunder; and
(D)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof


﻿4
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional term has the following
meaning:
"T & T" means the Telegraph and Telephone Department of the Ministry
of Communications of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million three hundred thousand
dollars ($7,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for the purposes set forth
in paragraph 5 of such Schedule and for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in  semi-annual installments payable   on  each  June 15   and  December 15
commencing June 15, 1983 and ending December 15, 2022, each installment to
and including the installment payable on December 15, 1992 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Opciations of T & T
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices, and shall make available, promptly as needed,
all funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's obligations uinder
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to T & T on the basis of reimbursement by T & T over a period of
twenty-four years from the Effective Date, including therein a period of grace of
four years, and subject to charges to be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association after the accounting system referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall have been established.
Section 3.02.    The Borrower shall cause T & T at all times to conduct
its operations, including its financial operations, in accordance with sound
management and financial practices and under the supervision of competent and
experienced management.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the reports, plans, specifications,
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause T & T to maintain records adequate
to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and the operations, including financial operations, of T & T; and
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, T & T's properties
and equipment including the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents.
(c)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause T & T to furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit, the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the management and operations, including
financial operations, of T & T.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall at all times cause T & T to operate and
maintain its plants, equipment and property, and to make promptly all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial
and public utility practices.
Section 3.05. Until the establishment of the accounting system referred to
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall effect no reduction in its
telecommunications tariffs without the agreement of the Association.
Section 3.06. After the accounting system referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall have been established, the Borrower shall promptly establish
and thereafter maintain telecommunications tariffs which shall provide revenues
sufficient to (i) cover T & T's operating expenses, including taxes and levies, if
any, adequate maintenance and depreciation, and (ii) produce a reasonable return
on the realistic value of T & T's total net fixed assets in operation, as shall be
established from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall promptly pay to the account of T & T's
revenues, on a current basis, all charges incurred by the Borrower or by any of
its departments, agencies or instrumentalities in respect of telecommunications
services furnished by T & T.
Section 3.08. (a) Until the establishment of the accounting system referred
to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the financial arrangements between the
Borrower and T & T applicable at the date of this Agreement shall continue to
be applied and any change in such arrangements will be subject to agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿7
(b)   After the accounting system   referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall have been established,
(i)         long-term debt of T & T other than under development credit
agreements entered   into  with  the Association, including
long-term debt entered into for the benefit of T & T to be
separated from the capital-at-charge, shall be repaid by T & T
to the Borrower out of T & T's operating revenues under the
terms and conditions applicable to such debt, and
(ii)        the Borrower shall cause T & T to pay annually to the Borrower
out of its operating revenues a contribution to be established
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section, (i) the term "operating revenues"
shall mean all revenues from T & T's telecommunications operations and other
revenues incidental thereto: (ii) the term "long-term debt of T & T" shall mean
all debt incurred for the benefit of T & T which will mature by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred: and (iii) the term
"capital-at-charge" shall mean the aggregate of all funds placed by the Borrower
at the disposal of T & T, the principal of which is not repayable to the Borrower,
but which is subject to annual interest payments by T & T.
Section 3.09. (a) Until the establishment of the accounting system referred
to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall submit to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the annual budget accounts relating to T & T.
(b)   After the accounting system   referred to in Section 4.01 of' this
Agreement shall have been established, the Borrower shall (i) cause the accounts
and financial statements (balance sheet, operating statement and sources and uses
of funds statement) for each fiscal year of T & T and of any other departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out or operating the Project
or any part thereof to be audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by competent and experienced auditors acceptable to the
Association- (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said accounts and financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
a signed copy of the report of such audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from  time to time
reasonably request.


﻿8
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to: (i) the administration,
operations and financial condition of T & T and of any other departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof
and (ii) financial and economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower,
including its balance of payments, and the external debt of the Borrower, of any
of its political subdivisions and of any agency of the Borrower or of any such
political subdivision.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from     time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of T & T and
of any other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform       the Association of (i) any
proposed material changes in the structure, organization, powers or responsibilities
of T & T and (ii) of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by T
& T to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.12. Prior to the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that major expansions of telecommunications facilities other than as provided
in the Project shall only be undertaken after consultation with the Association.


﻿9
The term "major expansion" shall mean any expansion scheme or project the total
expenditures for which are expected to exceed the equivalent of two million dollars
($2,000,000).
Section 3.13. (a) After the accounting system referred to in Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall have been established, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt for the benefit of T &
T, or cause any debt to be so incurred, unless T & T's net revenues for the preceding
fiscal year or for any later twelve-month period, whichever is the greater, shall
be at least as many times the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt including the debt to be incurred as shall be established
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   For the puiposes of this Section:
(i)         Debt incurred for the benefit of T & T means all indebtedness
incurred by the Borrower or others for the purpose of financing
the operations or investments of T & T, including debt for the
service of which T & T is responsible, which will mature by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(ii)       The term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and delivery
of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt or for the refinancing of such debt.
(iii)      The term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of T & T's tariffs in effect at the time
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all operating, maintenance and overhead
expenses and provision for the contribution to the Borrower
defined in Section 3.08(b) above, but before provision covering
depreciation and debt service requirements.
(iv)       The term    "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt.


﻿10
Section 3.14. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Reorganization of T & T
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall establish a program satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association designed to ensure that T & T shall be in a position
to operate its telecommunications services effectively and on the basis of sound
financial and management principles; such program shall be implemented according
to a timetable to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association and
shall include the following elements:
(i)         the form of control exercised by the Borrower over T & T and
its operations shall ensure that the chief executive officer of
T & T shall have such financial and operational responsibility
as shall be required to enable him to manage the activities and
operations of T & T on the basis of sound financial and
management principles;
(ii)        T & T shall be provided with an effective accounting system
which would supply to T & T's management all information
necessary for effective planning of T & T's operations and
services, including expansions thereof, as well as for efficient
control over T & T's current operations;
(iii)      the relationship between T & T and the Telephone Industries
of the Borrower shall be placed on a fully commercial basis.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section  7.01. The date January     15, 1973 is hereby    specified for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02, 3.04,
3.06, 3.08(b), 3.09(b), 3.10(c)(i) and 3.13 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 24 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Chief of the External Resources Division of the Planning
Commission of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A.M.A. Muhith
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Vice President, Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
1.    Microwave and coaxial          5,100,000             100% of foreign
cable systems and                                    expenditures
multiplex equipment
for Part I of the
Project
1I.   Retention payments               114,000             100% of foreign
for Part II of the                                   expenditures
Project
III.  Repayment in part of           2,086,000
principal amount
withdrawn under
Credit No. 145
(as provided in
paragraph 5 of this
Schedule)
TOTAL          7,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and
in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿14
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made under Category I or II in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above;
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under Category II shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor may be reallocated by the Association, at the request of the Borrower,
by increasing correspondingly the amount of the Credit allocated to Category I;
and
(b)  if the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in Category I is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.   The Association shall, on the Effective Date or as soon as possible thereafter,
withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association an amount equivalent
to $2,086,000 in repayment in advance of maturity of part of the principal amount
of Credit No. 145 withdrawn from the credit account opened by the Association
thereunder, it being hereby agreed and recorded that, for the purpose of determining
the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid by the Borrower, in accordance
with Section 4.03 of the General Conditions, this withdrawal shall be deemed to
have been made as of the respective dates of the aforementioned withdrawals under
Credit No. 145.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is:
Part I
The installation of microwave systems between Dacca, Mymensingh and Bogra
and between Dacca and Sylhet, and the installation of coaxial cable systems between
Kushtia, Natore and Rajshahi and between Bogra and Rangpur, as well as the
provision of multiplex equipment.
Part II
The completion of the installation and extension of the local subscriber's
distribution network, the provision of lines to public call offices, and the
improvement of the international high frequency radio system.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods
1.   Gøods in CategorY A of, Schedulie I to tlis Ai eement shall be procired
on the basis nf international coi pet ition under proedures consistent wit h Ihe
Guidelines Inr Procurement under WNrld Bank Loans and IDA Credits published
b the Bank in April        kl72: identical or similar iteis to be procnred shall be
grouped together wherever praflioable fr the purposes of hidding and procurement,
aid sc   grnuping  i itens shall be su b iect  the apoprval If the Association.
-.   Wit respect tn al rocurement contracts involving expenditures expected
to e\ceed the equivalent of U50,000, the Borrower shall cause T & T to comply
w\ i th the follkx ing procedures:
I n i tat inons to bid, spcifications, the prøposed te rim s a ndI conlitiotns
nt contracts, and all otlier tender documents will be submitted i tle Associaitn
for review and approval prior to tie issuaone of' nvitations to bil, together wxithl
a desript inn of the advertising procedures to he iolowed
b)   A fiter bids has e been received and atnaly ed, le analfsis ni bid s and
F & T's prop->sals for anards, together with the reasons for suc  proposals will
he subniiitted to the Association or review atd apnprovl prior to makini an award
(l  contract  or  issuiing  an\  letter of  intent.
(c)  I   tlhe  fin«al  contract  is  to  differ  substantiali  irom  tlie  ter s  and
nd itions eontatine1d in tle respectie  Iouientis apprøved bN tle Assciation
uder paragraphs (a) and (b) above, th e te\t  f tbe p roposed clines w ill be
s umte  to th e Assfoiatinn for ilts re'iew ad aptpal ptrir i tle execu tin
t suhu cnotrael ni isstance of suc  letter o, intenit.
(L)   One conformed Cop\ of tianx letter of intent issued and of any Contract
exeCuted tnder tbis paragraph 2 shall be seit to tile Association promlptly uo
its issuaøne nr execttioii.
3.    Witli respect to ilts or groups 'of itetiis expected to cost tle eqtivalent
o  S t0,000 or less, C)pies 'of all tender Llocettntts, includi inviations to hil,
hid analyses and evaluatins, as xveil as one conformed copy nf a n contract or
letter of intent relating to tbe procurement of  such itenis or groups of itens, shll
be senit to the Association promptly: after tlie execttion of' any sueli contract or
iss     olue ni any such letter of in tenit and prior to tihe submission to tle Associat1ion
of the first applieation io wifthdawal of lunLds fro1 te C(relit ACC1ount in respeCt
of any steli contracts or letters of intent.


