CREDIT NUMBER 136 PAK
Project Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project-
General Consultants to EPWAPDA)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 136 PAK
Project Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project-
General Consultants to EPWAPDA)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1969


﻿pTrojert Argmutut
AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1969, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN, acting
by its Governor (hereinafter called the Province).
WUEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agree-
ment) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
development credit in various currencies equivalent to two
million dollars ($2,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement but only
on condition that the Province agree to undertake certain
obligations to the Association as hereinafter in this Project
Agreement set forth;
WHEREAS the Province in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth; and
WIEREAS the United Nations Development Programme
(Special Fund) has indicated that it will assist in financing
the cost of consultants' services to the Power Wing of
EPWAPDA      an(] management consultants' services to
EPWAPDA;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms


﻿4
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Regulations (as so defined) shall have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Province
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Province shall cause EPWAPDA
to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound financial and administrative
practices and shall at all times make available, promptly
as needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Province shall make available to EPWAP.DA
the proceed,s of the grant referred to in Section 4.02(b) of
the Development Credit Agreement as a grant.
(c) The Province shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to EPW YPDA on the same financial terms as those of the
Credit except that the principal amount of, and service
charges on, the credit provided for in such relending shall
be payable by EPWAPDA in the currency of the Borrower.
(d) The Province shall cause EPWAPDA to employ
qualified and experienced General Consultants acceptable
to the Association to assist in carrying out the Project upon
such terms and conditions, including terms of reference,
as shall have beon approved by the Association.
(e) The Province shall cause EPWAPDA to cooperate
fully with the Consultants in the performance of their
services for the Project and make available to them all
information relevant to the Project.
(f) The Province shall cause EPWAPDA not to amend
or waive any of the terms and conditions of employment
of the Consultants, or grant any material extension of time
or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof
or substitution of personnel of the Consultants, or suspend


﻿D
payments under, or terminate, any contract with the Con-
sultants without the prior agreement of the Association.
SECTION 2.02. (a) Upon request from time to time by the
A ssociation, the Province shall cause EPWAPDA to fur-
nish to the Association documents prepared by the Con-
sultants for the Project, in such number as the Association
shall request.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views with respect to the evaluation and
implementation of the recommendations and other conclu-
sions contained in the documents referred to in subsection
(a) hereof.
SECTIOA 2.03. The Province shall cause EPWAPDA to
maintain records adequate to identify the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project and to record the progress of the
i roject (including the cost thereof) and the operations and
acOlnts of EPWAPDA ; shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods and any
relevant records anid doumnents; and shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
exlenlditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the
goods aiid the operatiolis and accounts of EPWAPDA.
SECTIoN 2.04. (a) The Province and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the Project. The Province
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition


﻿6
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
performance by the Province of its obligations under this
Agreement or which shall increase or threaten to increase
materially the estimated cost of the Project.
SECTION 2.05. Except as the Association and the Province
shall otherwise agree, the Province shall cause EPWAPDA
to insure with responsible insurers all imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against ma-
rine, transit and other hazard-, incident to acquisition,
t.ransportation and delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Province to
replace or repair such goods.
SrcTioN 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Province shall cause (i) all goods financed in
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project; and
(ii) all such goods to be procured in accordance with the
methods and procedures provided in Section 3.02 of the
Developmont Credit A greement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date when the Development Credit Agreemeni
shall become effective as provided therein.
SECTION 3.02. [f the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate pursuant to Section 6.03 thereof, the Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Province of this event,
and, upon the giving of such notice, this Project Agreement
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
SECTION 3.03. This Agreement and the obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate: (i) on the date when


﻿7
the Development Credit Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms; or (ii) on the date the Prov-
ince shall have repaid the full amount of the proceeds of
the Credit to the Borrower, whichever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the Province:
Chief Secretary
Government of East Pakistan
Dacca, Pakistan
Cable address:
East Pakistan
Dacca


﻿8
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the
Province may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary
to the Government of East Pakistan or such other person
or persons as the Province shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Province shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Province, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Province pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Project Agreement and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused
this Project Agreement to be signed in their respective
names by their representatives thereunto duly authorized
and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
By   /s/ A. R. BAsum
Authoriz'ed Representative


