Report No. PID6993
Project Name                     Bolivia-Sustainability of the National (@)
System of Protected Areas
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Agriculture
Project ID                       BOGE60474
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
Implementing Agency
Address SERVICIO NACIONAL DE PARQUES Y
AREAS PROTEGIDAS (SERNAP)
SERNAP
Avenida 20 de Octubre, No. 2782, esquina
calle Campos
Contact Person: Luis Pabon Zamora
Tel: (591) 2-434472
Fax: (591) 2-434540
Email: lpsainz@mara.scr.entelnet.bo
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 22, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             January 5, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Bolivian BiodiversityBolivia has one of the richest biological heritages
in the world. Both endemism and species richness are high in Bolivia,
much of which is associated with the existence of numerous and varied
ecoregions which cover extensive areas of three out of five of South
America's most important bio-geographic regions - the Amazon, the
Andean-Patagonian association, and the Chaco. Bolivia also hosts one of
the world's biologically richest and most endangered terrestrial
ecoregions: the Tropical Andes hotspot, notable as a major center for the
domestication of plants. Intact natural formations also form important
corridors with neighboring countries, though there is little information
on their importance. Bolivia's biota is one of the most diverse in the
world, with 2,500 known species of vertebrates and approximately 18,000
vascular plants. The actual numbers are likely to be higher because
Bolivia has been one of the least studied countries in the Neotropics.
Bolivia's ecoregions are under increasing pressure from land use changes,
deforestation, the replacement of forestry agriculture, and the
contamination and degradation of aquatic ecosystems as a result of mining
and other extractive activities. Over the last ten years, about 400,000
ha per year of forests have been lost to the advance of the agricultural
frontier (including coca cultivation) and uncontrolled fires. The current
situation has serious implications for biodiversity loss, the environment,
poverty alleviation and tourism.Government Policies on Protected Areas in
BoliviaThe GOB has taken several steps to establish a policy framework to
support biodiversity conservation and to link conservation with social
development and poverty alleviation. The National System of Protected
Areas (SNAP) was established by the Government of Bolivia in 1992. To



date, the SNAP consists of 16 areas officially established and
administered by SERNAP, but with varying levels of management
effectiveness.  These areas represent about 12t of the country's surface.
During the first phase of the proposed program, an additional four
protected areas will come under SERNAP management and by the end of the
program, the SNAP is expected to consist of 22 protected areas of national
interest (representing 17 percent of the Bolivian territory). Currently,
protected area management is the responsibility of SERNAP (Servicio del
Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas) within the Vice-ministry for
Environment, Natural Resources, and Forest Development of the Ministry of
Sustainable Development and Planning.Bolivia is a signatory of the
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and ratified it through Law 1580
on 25th July 1994. The conservation of biodiversity has been identified
as one of the few environmental priorities by the GOB in its National
Action Plan (1997-2002). It is to be addressed through the consolidation
of the national system of protected areas; an emphasis on utilization of
market instruments to make resource management activities self financing;
and the decentralization of decision making and management of the PAs.
With the support of the UNDP, the GOB is currently preparing a National
Biodiversity Strategy (NBS), which prioritizes the strengthening of SNAP
as one of its key instruments. The NBS shall be completed by December
2000. "Parks with People"The total estimated population living within and
around the 22 protected areas of the SNAP is 40,000 people distributed in
150 communities. Nearly all of these people live in conditions of
poverty. The GOB recognizes the communal rights of local people to the
access and use of PA natural resources to support their traditional
lifestyles and therefore adopted the principle of "parks with people." In
order to address potential conflicts of interest, protected areas will be
demarcated, zoned and categorized through participatory planning closely
involving these communities. Therefore, the management of protected areas
becomes an opportunity to provide additional protection to traditional
lifestyles.
2. Objectives
Corresponding to Phase I of the program, the development objective of this
Project is to establish and strengthen the policy, legal and institutional
frameworks, the knowledge base and the financial instruments to secure the
long-term management and the sustainability of the National System of
Protected Areas (SNAP). The project aims to contribute to this objective
through: (i) improving the capacity of the National Service for Protected
Areas (SERNAP) to plan, implement and monitor an effective system of
protected areas; (ii) strengthening the planning and management capacity
of individual protected areas; (iii) consolidating the legal and
regulatory framework for protected areas; (iv) enhancing the financial
capacity of the SNAP through a Trust Fund managed by an independent
foundation (FUNDESNAP), (v) monitoring biodiversity and management
effectiveness in the protected areas and piloting sustainable,
biodiversity-related, income generating activities within PAs and their
buffer zones.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank brings to this project its experience of similar programs
both regionally and worldwide, as well as the ability to provide a
comprehensive framework for coordinating the efforts of the national and
international partners working to conserve Bolivia's biodiversity. The
- 2 -



value-added of Bank support includes the ability to mobilize international
experts, supervision capacity, technical support for preparation of
subsequent phases, coordination with similar efforts in other countries,
networking with other sources of expertise and financing, and a continuous
policy dialogue on sustainable development. The Bank procurement,
contracting, disbursement, and disclosure procedures provide a framework
for transparency and accountability in project activities. GEF funding
provides a permanent endowment capital for FUNDESNAP that will help to
cover recurrent operational costs of integrated conservation management of
the SNAP, in addition to GOB resources. This is a critical catalyst for
other donors' contributions. Also, the GEF support provides credibility
and creates a framework for other donors' activities.
4. Description
Project Component 1: Policy and Institutional Development - US$2.945
million (GEF component cost)This component aims at consolidating SERNAP's
role as the regulatory agency in the SNAP, through strengthening its
policy, planning and management capacities, and its ability to operate as
an autonomous institution. It will also articulate a national strategy for
protected area management in the long-term, taking into account Bolivia's
national policies and sustainable development objectives. Main
sub-components include:(i) developing a Master Plan to orient SERNAP
long-term actions, through an analysis of the representativity gaps and
proposals to demarcate existing and new SNAP protected areas; (ii)
preparing a Strategic Institutional and Financial Plan for SERNAP,
including a medium-term financial strategy;(iii) identifying mechanisms
for generating internal revenues, such as service fees collection (through
tourism, income from carbon sinks, and environmental easements and
concessions)(iv) strengthening SERNAP technical, managerial and
operational capacity; and (v) setting up the Project Coordination Unit to
support all project activities.Project Component 2 : Management of
Priority Protected Areas - US$5.923 million (GEF component cost)This
component aims to strengthen the planning and management capacities of the
22 protected areas of the SNAP, including GEF support to 10 priority areas
selected according to their financing needs, long-term funding potential,
planning needs, presence of significant biodiversity, potential for
participatory management, and potential for sustainable use of resources.
In addition, other donors will sponsor the remaining 12 areas, thus
covering the entirety of the SNAP under this effort. The precise
activities to be supported within each area were defined through an
in-depth analysis of existing capacities, threats, and minimum needs to
ensure effective management over the next 5 years. In addition, these
activities will strengthen management sustainability through enhanced
participation of local communities in decision-making and PA management on
a continuous basis. This component includes two main sub-components,
namely: (i) Strengthening of SNAP's Operational Capacity at Specific
Protected Areas, and(ii) Strengthening of Local Participation and
Inter-Institutional Coordination in the SNAP.Project Component 3: Legal
and Regulatory Framework - US$0.065 million (GEF component cost)This
component aims at establishing an adequate legal and regulatory framework
for biodiversity and the management of the SNAP. Main tasks identified
include:(i) prepare and approve the Protected Areas law, and support the
approval of the Biodiversity Law; (ii) review and propose amendments, as
needed, to cross-sectoral laws and regulations, (iii) prepare specific
SNAP regulations for PA management, including: PA zoning, environmental
-3 -



impacts, environmental services, tourism and other activities within
PAs.Project Component 4: Sustained financing - US$5.170 million (GEF
component cost)This component aims at strengthening the financial capacity
of the SNAP, and identifying the mechanisms to ensure its long-term
sustainability. During project preparation, FUNDESNAP has been
established as a private foundation through a public-private partnership,
to manage trust funds and other donations to finance the protected areas.
FUNDESNAP is a private non-profit organization, with transparent
procedures and an elected Board of Directors representing donors, PA local
communities, NGOs, private sector and the government. It's main role is
to mobilize and disburse funds for supporting the SNAP. The project will
establish and capitalize a Trust Fund account under FUNDESNAP to finance
recurrent costs of managing the protected areas, with an initial priority
to cover the needs of the 10 selected areas for the program's first
phase. The initial capital for this trust fund will come from a GEF
endowment of US$5.0 million provided through the project, and the transfer
of donor funds (US, Switzerland and UK) currently held under FONAMA. The
Trust Fund will be established outside of Bolivia under professional asset
management. The income generated from the trust fund will finance the
recurrent costs of the protected areas, under annual work programs
prepared and executed by SERNAP, in partnership with the PA management
committees, NGOs and local organizations. Further details on the
establishment of FUNDESNAP, its capitalization, and strategic and
operational approaches are described in the Project Appraisal
Document.Project Component 5. Biodiversity Management and Monitoring in
Protected Areas - US$0.897 million (GEF component cost)This component will
consolidate and complement ongoing efforts in resource management and
monitoring in and around protected areas. With the support of the GEF
grant, SERNAP will work closely with those organizations (GTZ, FAN, WWF,
WCS, CARE and others) carrying out activities directly related with this
component, in order to broaden the information available and develop
models that are consistent with country conditions. Occasionally, SERNAP
will assume the role of facilitator with regard to resource management
issues as some projects may be implemented by other institutions working
in the selected protected areas. This component includes two
sub-components, namely: (i) Development of models for biodiversity and
natural resources management in PAs, based on the ongoing work by the
MAPZA/GTZ team in the buffer zones of three protected areas. (ii)
Monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity conservation, involving the
design, piloting and implementation of a SNAP monitoring system.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost               43.69
6. Implementation
Overall Project management: The project will be implemented over a five
year period by two institutions: SERNAP and FUNDESNAP. The National
Service for Protected Areas (SERNAP) is an autonomous government agency
under the Vice-Ministry of Environment within the Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Planning, which has the responsibility for developing and
implementing a national system of protected areas. Component 4 - the SNAP
Trust Fund - will be executed by the Foundation for the Development of the
National Protected Areas System (FUNDESNAP) a private foundation created
through a partnership among the government, NGOs, private sector and the
- 4 -



donor community. FUNDESNAP will be the recipient of an associated Trust
Fund grant. Project Coordination: SERNAP will establish a small Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) in its central offices in La Paz to coordinate
project activities. This Unit will provide overall project management,
procurement and administrative support, and will act as the interface
between SERNAP and FUNDESNAP. Each component will be headed by a
Technical Leader selected from SERNAP staff and consultants. SERNAP will
be responsible for executing most of the work under the project, with the
exception of Component 4, to be executed by FUNDESNAP and headed by its
Executive Director. Ministerial oversight of the project will be provided
by the Vice-Ministry of Environment and Biodiversity within the Ministry
of Sustainable Development and Planning.The project staff of SERNAP will
be supported by a technical assistance team of national and international
consultants, both short- and long-term. Subject matter specialists will
likely include ecologists, community participation specialist, protected
areas management specialists, an environmental law specialist, a
sustainable finance specialist and a monitoring and evaluation
specialist. Budget resources will be provided for other short-term
specialists as necessary. Flexibility in the final use of short-term
technical assistance is expected.The management of the protected areas
will be executed by the PA Directors and supported by park rangers and
administrative personnel. A Management Committee will be established for
each PA, comprised by representatives of SERNAP (the PA Director), key
staff from local and provincial governments, NGOs (such as environmental
groups, indigenous associations and trade unions), the local communities
living within and around the area, and local private sector. These
Committees will participate in the preparation of the PA Management Plan,
and will prepare the Annual Action Plans for the PAs. They also provide a
mechanism for assisting in the resolution of PA management problems.Donor
Coordination: A Donor Coordination Group has been established by SERNAP as
a mechanism to provide advice and coordinate the technical and financial
cooperation related to SNAP. It is composed of representatives of all the
donors actively supporting the SNAP under the leadership of the Director
of SERNAP. The Donor Coordination Group will meet at least semi-annually
to review program progress, and ad-hoc as necessary. In addition, joint
supervision of this project will be undertaken by the World Bank, GTZ/KfW
and the Dutch Cooperation whenever feasible, and at least once a year.
Financial management: SERNAP will be responsible for the financial
management, reporting, and auditing related to the project, except for
Component 4, to be managed by FUNDESNAP. The Bank has supported
installation of a uniform accounting system (LACI) in Bolivia for all Bank
projects. SERNAP has been certified as a LACI user, and therefore is
eligible for PMR based disbursements. SERNAP will administer its GEF
grant funds through the PCU, and will be responsible for disbursement of
these funds. FUNDESNAP will retain professional asset manager(s) for the
Trust Fund Account following international selection procedures to invest
the endowment. FUNDESNAP will disburse the income generated from these
invested funds under procedures to be defined during discussion at the
Board level of the new Trust Fund and according to the GEF Grant
Agreement.    FUNDESNAP will be responsible for financial management,
reporting, and auditing of GEF proceeds, following procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Initially, SERNAP will provide financial management services
to FUNDESNAP until the Foundation gets its LACI certification.SERNAP and
FUNDESNAP shall jointly appoint an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank. The auditor shall be responsible for the annual audit of the
- 5-



financial statements, and provide an opinion on the eligibility of
expenses on the basis of SOEs and transactions for the Special Accounts.
The audited financial statements, together with audit reports, SOEs and
the Special Accounts shall be submitted to IDA within four months of the
end of the Project's fiscal year. The audit shall be conducted within
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank and under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. Appointment of an auditor will be condition of
effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
The proposed program would contribute to the sustainability of
biodiversity in Bolivia through establishing a sustainable national
protected areas system, and also ensuring the sustainability of each PA
within the system. Sustainability is therefore the ultimate goal of this
program, and most components are designed to help achieve environmental,
financial, institutional and social sustainability. Environmental
sustainability will be achieved by ensuring that the system includes PAs
of adequate dimensions and characteristics to maintain ecological and
evolutionary processes, biological corridors and the sustainable use of
natural resources and biodiversity. The project will identify any gaps
in representativity of the SNAP, and propose a strategy to cover them
without exceeding implementation capacity.Financial sustainability will be
achieved, in the long-term, by expanding the cost recovery and financing
mechanisms that complement the GOB's budgetary allocations for protected
areas management, in order to cover all the investment and operational
costs of the SNAP. The establishment of an independent, transparent and
accountable private trust fund (FUNDESNAP) is the foundation of a
sustainable financial management for the SNAP.Institutional sustainability
will be achieved through the full institutionalization of the SNAP and of
SERNAP. This involves ensuring its autonomy and mandate through an
appropriate legal framework, building a strong management capacity at the
national and local levels, and building partnerships with civil society,
together with other national and international institutions. Social
sustainability will be achieved through strengthening the constituencies
that would support the SNAP and the effective management of the PAs. For
this purpose, the project adopts participatory planning and management of
PAs, strategic partnerships and coordination with key stakeholders, and
distributing the PA benefits to local and indigenous communities through
revenue-sharing and income-generating activities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project builds on the experience of the first GEF Biodiversity
Conservation Project (Pilot Phase), which came to a satisfactory
conclusion in 1998, and on the preliminary recommendations of the National
Biodiversity Strategy. Main lessons learned include:(a) A realistic time
frame must be adopted when working towards achieving long-term financial
and social sustainability of protected areas. A traditional 5-year
project would not have been sufficient to achieve this. Therefore, an APL
format has been adopted.(b) Protected area systems must reflect national
realities in terms of number of areas, ecoregional coverage, and balance
of management categories. By prioritizing and rationalizing the number
of protected areas which the national government is directly responsible,
better long range budgeting and control can be expected. The Master Plan
will provide this guidance(c) Before fostering the expansion of a national
system of protected areas, a core of well run, adequately functioning
- 6 -



areas should be in place. Thus, in order to be sustainable, the expansion
should be based on an ecosystem representativity analysis, the recognition
of any gaps and limitations regarding financial resources, and the
capacity to enforce protection. Capacity building and institutional
strengthening are crucially important, and are explicitly addressed. (d)
The chances of success are improved if substantive local participation in
the definition of objectives and the management of protected areas is
achieved, including mechanisms to ensure that local communities benefit
from protected areas. Community participation is a fundamental feature of
this project. (e) National ownership, which is fairly independent of
government change, is strengthened if the long-term vision of the
protected area system is shared by civil society. Preparation workshops,
protected areas management committees, partnership programs and
environmental education and promotion campaigns should ensure this.(f)
There is a need to ensure the autonomy and professionalism of SERNAP as
the agency responsible for the SNAP. Therefore, it should be shielded
whenever possible from direct political interference. The
institutionalization of the SNAP and of SERNAP is essential. Personnel
appointments, particularly of key management staff, should be based on
professional criteria and qualifications, rather than on political
networks.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project aims achieve the sustainable management
of the National System of Protected areas. The project components are not
expected to have any significant negative impacts on the environment.
Field construction activities are small scale, involving the construction
of field posts, small buildings and trails. There is no separate
Environmental Assessment prepared for the project, classified as Category
B. An EA framework was developed to ensure that the impacts of the
construction activities are fully prevented or mitigated. SERNAP
Environmental Assessment Unit will implement EA in protected areas in
coordination with the MDSP and in accordance with the MDSP Guidelines for
Environmental Assessment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Elizabeth Monosowski
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473 3292
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 7 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 8 -



