Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21447-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR7.80 MILLION(US$9.83 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
A GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR4. 10 MILLION (US$5.17 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FOUNDATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE NATIONAL SYSTEM OF PROTECTED
AREAS
FOR THE
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE NATIONAL SYSTEM OF PROTECTED AREAS
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE NATIONAL SYSTEM OF PROTECTED AREAS PROGRAM
DECEMBER 20, 2000
Environment and Socially Sustainable Development
Bolivia
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
l Bs = US$0.16
US$1 = 6.32 Bs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                   Adjustable Program Loan
BZ                    Buffer Zone
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CI                    Conservation International
COSUDE                Swiss Cooperation Agency for Development
DFID                  (British) Department for International Development
FONAMA                National Environment Fund
FUNDESNAP             Foundation for the Development of the SNAP (Fundaci6n para el Desarrollo del Sistema
Nacional de Areas Protegidas)
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GOB                   Governnent of Bolivia
GTZ                   German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Gesellschaflfpir Technische
Zusammenarbeit)
KfW                   German Development Loan Corporation (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau)
LACI                  Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCR                   Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCSES                 Latin America and the Caribbean Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development Unit
MDSMA                 Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment, Bolivia (1992)
MDSP                  Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning, Bolivia (current)
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
PA                    Protected Area
PASNAPH               Dutch Assistance Program for the National system of Protected areas (Programa de
Apoio al Sistema de Areas Protegidas de Holanda)
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
PMR                   Project Management Report
SNAP                  National System of Protected Areas (Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas)
SERNAP                National Service of Protected Areas (Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas)
TNC                   The Nature Conservancy
WWF                   World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Opportunity Pillar Leader:    Andrea Silverman
ESSD Director:    John Redwood
Sector Manager/Director:    Teresa Serra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Elizabeth Monosowski



BOLIVIA
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE NATIONAL SYSTEM OF PROTECTED AREAS
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     3
3. Key performance indicators                                                         3
B.. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  8
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         18
2. Financial                                                                         18
3. Technical                                                                         19
4. Institutional                                                                     19
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                            22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   24



2. Critical risks                                                                     25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     26
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           26
2. Other                                                                              27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        41
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                      42
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      47
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     56
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  59
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            61
Annex 11: Govemnment and Parallel Financing                                              63
Annex 12: Social Assessment, Public Participation, and the Strategy for Addressing Indigenous  66
People Issues
Annex 13: Environment Impact Framework                                                   74
Annex 14: Independent Evaluation of the Pilot Phase GEF Project                          77
Annex 15: Project Institutional Framework                                                80
Annex 16: Letter of Sector Policy                                                        82
Annex 17: Principles and Guidelines for Population Issues Management in Protected Areas  85
Annex 18: Priority Protected Areas Supported by the GEF                                  90
Annex 19: Management Effectiveness and Biodiversity Scorecard (Methodology and Baseline)  97
Annex 20: Description of FUNDESNAP                                                      104
MAP(S)
30583 Bolivian National Protected Areas Overlayed with Ecoregions Threat
30584 Protected Areas and Population Density 2000
30585 Level of Poverty by Province 1992 and Protected Areas
30586 Protected Areas and Ecoregions



BOLIVIA
Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSES
Date: November 22, 2000                            Team Leader: Elizabeth Monosowski
Country Manager/Director: Isabel M. Guerrero       Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P060474                                Sector(s): VY - Other Environment
Theme(s): Environment
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                       Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated,
APL            -Indicative Financing Plan;   -   Implementation Period -Borrower
.._____   ,_              _           .          ,.,,,, i(Bank  FY),_
GEF             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$m      %      US$ m       US$ m         Date       Date
APL 1        15.00    34.3    28.69       43.69    01/05/2001   07/05/2006 Republic of Bolivia &
Loan/                                                                 FUNDESNAP
Credit                            _ _ _ _ _
Total        15.00            28.69       43.69
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [ ]Credit    [X] Grant      [ Guarantee       [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (USSm): SDRI 1.9 million (US$ 15.0 million equivalent)
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local        TForeign    otal
BORROWER                                                        2.42            0.61          3.03
BORROWING AGENCY                                                 1.17           0.30          1.47
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     6.70            8.30         15.00
GOVERNMENT OF GERMANY (EXCEPT FOR BMZ)                          6.82            4.55         11.37
GOV. OF THE NETHERLANDS (EXCEPT FOR                             3.22            2.15          5.37
MOFA/MIN.OF DEV.COOP.)
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                               0.00            4.61          4.61
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                            2.27            0.57          2.84
BORROWING COUNTRY
Total:                                                         22.60           21.09         43.69
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
Responsible agency: SERVICIO NACIONAL DE PARQUES Y AREAS PROTEGIDAS (SERNAP)
SERNAP
Address: Avenida 20 de Octubre, No. 2782, esquina calle Campos
Contact Person: Luis Pabon Zamora
Tel: (591) 2-434472                Fax: (591) 2-434540                Email: lpsainz@mara.scr.entelnet.bo



Other Agency(ies):
FUNDESNAP
Address: Avenida Arce, Edificio Illimani, planta baja, oficina 10
Contact Person: Roberto Jordan
Tel: (591) 2435232               Fax: (591) 2435232                 Email:
Heidyijm@Ceibo.Entelnet.Bo
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Y           2001 A02M             2003      12004 2I              2006
Annual    6.57        2.60        2.18       1.83      1.25       0.57
Cumulative    6.57        9.17      11.35      13.18      14.43     15.00
Project implementation period: 5 years (phase 1)
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of the proposed program is to ensure that representative ecosystems and biodiversity of Bolivia are
conserved and sustainably managed through a national system of protected areas. The program adopts the
integrated ecosystem management approach for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, as well as
equitable sharing of benefits arising from biodiversity use, with a special focus on mountain ecosystems of the
Andean region (GEF OP4) and forest ecosystems (GEF OP3). By the end of the program, this system is expected
to be self-sustained, transparent, decentralized, and managed through partnerships with local communities,
government at various levels, NGOs and the private sector.
The proposed 15-year program is comprised of three phases:
I . Phase I will consolidate core functions to allow for the long-term management and sustainability of the
National System of Protected Areas (SNAP), including appropriate policies, regulations, incentive structures
and institutional strengthening. Duration: 5 years.
2. Phase 1L will expand the social and economic support to the SNAP through the implementation of
market-based cost recovery mechanisms and community-based, conservation-related income generating
activities in buffer areas; it will also complete the demarcation and address land tenure issues in the protected
areas. Duration: 5 years
3. Phase III will strengthen the autonomous management of protected areas, including the possibility of
providing concessions for their operation and maintenance to communities, NGOs and the private sector.
Duration: 5 years.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project corresponds to Phase I of the program. The development objective of this project is to ensure
the sustainable management of the National System of Protected Areas (SNAP) by establishing and strengthening:
(a) the legal, institutional and policy frameworks; (b) the management capacity at the protected area and central
levels; (c) the SNAP financing mechanisms. Phase I will also identify the gaps in representativity of Bolivian
ecosystems within the current protected areas, and propose adjustments to SNAP to expand its coverage to all
relevant ecosystems.
The project aims to contribute to this objective through: (i) improving the capacity of the National Service for
Protected Areas (SERNAP) to plan, implement and monitor an effective system of national protected areas; (ii)
strengthening the management capacity and infrastructure of individual protected areas; (iii) consolidating the
legal and regulatory framework for protected areas; (iv) increasing the financial capacity of the SNAP through a
Trust Fund managed by an independent foundation (FUNDESNAP); and (v) monitoring biodiversity and protected
area management effectiveness and piloting sustainable, biodiversity-related, income generating activities within
protected areas and their buffer zones.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
1. End of Program Impact (EOPI):
*   Sufficient financing is secured to sustain the SNAP management, including the full operation and
maintenance costs of all protected areas (PAs) within the SNAP;
*   All major ecosystems are represented in the SNAP with sufficient areas to ensure their sustainability;
*   All PAs are under participatory management by active, multi-partner management councils (Consejos de
Administracion);
*   Local communities within and around the PAs are actively involved on and committed to PA conservation.
*   All existing protected areas, any new protected areas to be created during the 15-year program, and connecting
biological corridors are managed according to national strategic priorities established by the Master Plan, and
periodically revised
-3 -



*   Management effectiveness of the SNAP increases by an average of 2 points and no area has a score under 2
(based on the project's protected areas scorecard methodology).
2. End of Phase Indicators:
*   An efficient management system is established for the SNAP;
* A long-term Master Plan is developed within an appropriate legal framework;
*   The functionality of 10 protected areas has been achieved as measured by an increase in management
effectiveness by 1.5 points on average and no PA less than 2 (based on the project's protected areas scorecard
methodology);
*   Operating Protected Area Management Councils have increased from 5 to 14;
*   SNAP Trust Fund (FUNDESNAP) is fully operational and its capital endowment has increased to at least
US$15.0 million, covering about 30% of SNAP recurring costs;
*   Adequate legislation has been passed and is enforced to conserve biodiversity and protected areas within two
years and a half of project effectiveness.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R 98-79                Date of latest CAS discussion: June 16, 1998
The 1997 Five-Year National Action Plan has adopted a single overarching objective: to reduce poverty through
higher sustainable growth. This is to be achieved by working on four main pillars: opportunity, equity,
institutionality and dignity. The 1998 CAS focuses its assistance in three of these pillars:
* opDortunitv: aims to attain higher sustainable private sector led growth with better distribution;
*   equitv: aims to raise the standards of living of the poor, and
*   institutionality: aims to strengthen the institutional framework for greater justice and a corruption-free
administration.
The 1998 CAS limits the Bank involvement in environment to non-lending services because of the availability of
other external resources. However, the CAS identifies the need for a clearer definition of priorities and improved
implementation capacity for the use of these resources. Moreover, biodiversity conservation is one of the priority
areas identified for World Bank support under the Comprehensive Development Framework.
The proposed program aims to promote the sustainable and participatory management of Bolivia's protected areas,
while creating incentives for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity resources by the local poor and
indigenous communities. This goal is consistent with the CAS goals, namely:
Opportunity:      .  the program creates a framework for the sustainable use and conservation of protected
areas through partnerships among government, local communities, the private sector,
NGOs and the donor community.
*  the program contributes to the design of a medium term financing strategy for
environmental programs which would allow Bolivia to graduate from its current very
high and unsustainable dependence on external funding.
Equity:           *  the program involves local communities in the conservation of protected areas, by
developing sustainable, biodiversity-based sources of income for the rural poor and
indigenous communities.
Institutionality:    *  the program increases the number of protected areas with decentralized, transparent
and participatory on-site management
*  the program contributes to a clearer definition of conservation priorities and to
improving the implementation capacity for the use of available resources
*  the program reduces opportunities for corruption through greater clarity in the legal
and regulatory framework
-4 -



la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The program's objective is consistent with the GEF operational strategy of promoting and integrating biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use, through consolidating and improving conservation efforts in all 22 protected
areas of Bolivia, of which 10 priority areas will be supported by GEF. lt is particularly relevant to the conservation
of areas of global significance and to the in-situ conservation of biodiversity at three levels: genetic resources;
species; and ecosystems. It will also support the sustainable and equitable utilization of biodiversity through
studies, pilots, and public/private sector initiatives. The program adopts a comprehensive, cross-sectoral approach
involving intensive public participation and strategic partnerships. Moreover, a non-commercial trust fund will
help to cover recurrent operation costs of integrated conservation management of SNAP in a sustainable basis.
In particular, the program responds to the objectives of the following GEF Operational Programs:
*   Conservation and in-situ protection of biodiversity in mountain ecosystems of the Andean region, and
sustainable use and management of these ecosystems (OP 4: Mountain Ecosystems)
*   Conservation and in-situ protection of forest ecosystems in the Andean slopes, the Bolivian Amazon and in the
Chaco areas. (OP 3 - Forest Ecosystems)
The proposed program is also consistent with Agenda 21 and the principles of the Convention on Biodiversity
(CBD), to which Bolivia is a signatory, in that it supports: conservation of biodiversity; conservation of tropical
forests; reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; maintenance of genetic resources; empowerment of main
stakeholders; local participation in environmental management; strengthening of national capacity for establishing
processes of sustainable development; and strengthening in-country scientific capacity in biological diversity
issues.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Biodiversity Importance. Bolivia has one of the richest biological heritages worldwide. Both endemism and
species richness are high in Bolivia, much of which is associated with the existence of numerous and varied
ecoregions. Bolivia covers extensive areas of three out of five of South America's most important bio-geographic
regions: the Amazon; the Andean-Patagonian association; and the Chaco. Bolivia also hosts one of the world's
biologically richest and most endangered terrestrial ecoregions: the Tropical Andes hotspot, a major center for the
domestication of plants. Intact natural formations also form important corridors with neighboring countries,
though there is little information on their importance.
Bolivia's biodiversity is one of the most diverse in the world, with 2,500 known species of vertebrates and
approximately 18,000 vascular plants. However, the true numbers are likely higher, as Bolivia is one of the least
studied countries in the neotropics. Endemism is also high, especially in the isolated valleys of the Yungas where
bio-geographic islands have been formed. Based on data from Conservation International, Bolivia rates 8th
worldwide for bird biodiversity, 10th for butterfly endemism, and 4th for butterfly biodiversity. In addition, natural
ecosystems provide ecological services that are important to the national and regional economy. For example, the
conservation of the Chaco watersheds has a major role in maintaining water flows in the La Plata basin.
Habitat Destruction and Degradation. Bolivia's ecoregions are under increasing pressure from land use changes
that are not necessarily ecologically sustainable. These include the replacement of forestry agriculture, and the
contamination and degradation of aquatic ecosystems as a result of mining and other extractive activities. One of
the main threats to Bolivia's biodiversity is habitat destruction and degradation, primarily through deforestation.
According to FAO (FRA 2000), the rate of deforestation in Bolivia has averaged 400,000 ha per annum between
1990 and 2000, or approximately 0.8% per year. It is estimated that 110 species are now endangered and 2,048
are threatened. Forests have been lost to the advance of the agricultural frontier (including coca cultivation) and
uncontrolled fires with serious implications for biodiversity loss, the environment, poverty alleviation and tourism.
-5 -



"Parks with People": According to SERNAP records, the total estimated population living in and around the 22
protected areas of the SNAP is 40,000 people in 150 communities. Nearly all of these people live in conditions of
poverty. The use of biodiversity is part of the survival strategies of poor rural communities and can lead to
overexploitation and illegal wildlife trade. Also, land tenure disputes involving indigenous and other groups, and
settlement pressures from marginal populations are not uncommon. Furthermore, overlaps between indigenous
reserves and protected areas will require careful zoning based on agreements with these communities.
The GOB recognizes the communal rights of local people to the access and use of PA natural resources to support
their traditional lifestyles and therefore adopted the principle of "parks with people." In order to address conflicts
of interest, protected areas will be demarcated, zoned and categorized through a participatory planning process
closely involving these communities. Therefore, the management of protected areas becomes an opportunity to
provide additional protection to traditional lifestyles.
Conflicting Government Policies: The strong orientation of development policies towards economic growth and
the policies and strategies of productive sectors often contradict the objectives of biodiversity conservation. For
example, the lack of effective management in many protected areas (e.g., the lack of management plans) prevents
the proper regulation of high impact activities including mining, agriculture, hydrocarbon exploitation and
logging.
Nevertheless, the GOB has taken steps to establish a policy framework to support biodiversity conservation and to
closely link this to social development and poverty alleviation. The National System of Protected Areas (SNAP)
was established by the Govemment of Bolivia in 1992, and presently includes 22 protected areas of national
interest (representing 17 percent of the Bolivian territory). The SNAP is very ambitious, given the human and
financial constraints faced by Bolivia. To date, 16 areas have been officially established and are administered by
SERNAP, but with varying levels of management effectiveness. These areas represent about 12% of the country's
surface. During the first phase of the proposed program, an additional four protected areas will come under
SERNAP management and by the end of the program, all the 22 protected areas should be established and under
SERNAP management.
Bolivia is a signatory of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and ratified it through Law 1580 on 25th
July 1994. The conservation of biodiversity has been identified as a priority by the GOB in its National Action
Plan (1997-2002). It is to be addressed through the consolidation of the national system of protected areas with an
emphasis on the utilization of market instruments to make management activities self financing and the
decentralization of decision making and management of the PAs. With the support of the UNDP/GEF, the GOB is
currently preparing a National Biodiversity Strategy (NBS), which prioritizes the strengthening of SNAP as one of
its key activities. The NBS shall be completed by December 2000.
Evolving Legal Framework: Although major advances in recent legislation created a number of useful
instruments for environmental management, further efforts are needed to establish a specific legal framework to
support the conservation of biodiversity and the integrity of the protected areas.
The passing of the Environmental Law of 1992 and its associated regulation for protected areas has been an
important step toward ensuring the effective management of protected areas. The GOB is also making attempts to
remove the legal contradictions that undermine the integrity of protected areas. Notwithstanding the progress
being made, there is still a need to strengthen specific regulations to accommodate the different management
regimes of protected areas. A draft Biodiversity Law prepared under the first GEF project in Bolivia has been
extensively debated at departmental and local levels (including local organizations, rural populations, and NGOs)
and has been presented to Congress. However, this law was withdrawn from Congress and is being amended as
part of the agreements reached between the GOB and social organizations in October 2000.
Key related legislation of interest for protected area management includes:
*   Article 171 of the Bolivian Constitution, modified in 1994, recognizes "the social, economic and cultural
rights of indigenous peoples that inhabit the national territory, especially to their communal lands of origin,
warranting their use and sustainable management of their natural resources, their identity, values, language
and institutions."
-6-



*   The Popular Participation Law (1994) and the Administrative Decentralization Law of 1995 aim to increase
the responsiveness of government to the needs of Bolivian society by promoting participation in the political
process and the definition of the government's social and economic development programs.
*   The Agrarian Reform Law of October 1996 regulates land allocation and use, and human settlement issues.
*   The Forestry Law and Forestry Regulations of December 1996 support the sustainable use of forestry resources
through regulating forestry concessions and introducing Forestry Management Plans as a key element for
sustainable management of forest resources. The preservation of ecosystems and the environment, including
protection and rehabilitation of watersheds, eroded lands and degraded forests, are strongly emphasized.
Weak Institutional Capacity: Frequent changes within the leadership of the sector has led to numerous changes
in the institutional framework for environmental management. This, and the limited capacity of the existing
institutions, are major constraints to the sustainable management of biodiversity in Bolivia.
Since 1992, the management of protected areas has been under the mandate of the Ministry of Environment, a
weak agency with a very extensive mandate. In August 1997, the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment (MDSMA) was reorganized into the Ministry for Sustainable Development and Planning (MDSP).
In early 1998, the National Service of Protected Areas (SERNAP) was established as an autonomous entity in
charge of the SNAP, responding directly to the MDSP. Currently, 16 out of the 22 protected areas are under
SERNAP active management, representing about 12% of the Bolivian territory. These protected areas include:
Kaa-lya del Gran Chaco, Estacion Biologica del Beni, Pilon Lajas, Torotoro, San Matias, Apolobamba, Eduardo
Avaroa, Isiboro Secure, Manupiri Heath, Tariquia, Cotapata, Carrasco, Noel Kempff Mercado, Sajama, Amboro
and Madidi. The four new areas to be implemented under GEF Phase I include: Cordillera de Sama, El Palmar,
Aguarague, Otuquis, and the areas to be considered under the Master Plan are Federico Roman and Madre de Dios.
SERNAP is a young institution and has yet to fully establish itself with only 12% of its 326 staff (including staff in
the protected areas and the central unit) being financed by the government budget and 78% financed by grants
provided by bilateral and multilateral organizations. In the last two years, with the support of the donor
community, SERNAP has implemented three new protected areas and four new Management Councils for PAs,
has established a planning framework for its operational and management activities and has been successful in
securing external funding for their activities.
However, its ability to manage the technical and administrative aspects of protected areas is constrained by the lack
of qualified staff and budgetary resources and the absence of a long-term strategy for the management of the
SNAP. An interesting feature of SERNAP is that it can delegate certain of its functions to the private sector and
civil society, thus opening the possibility of expanded partnerships for the sustainable management of the protected
areas.
Lack of Sustained Financing: A major bottleneck to ensure the sustainability of protected areas has been the
shortage of funding for recurrent costs. Although external resources have been consistently available for
environmental initiatives in Bolivia, poor donor coordination has led to a fragmented approach, duplication of
activities and an emphasis on investment costs. Furthermore, the expansion of the number of protected areas was
not accompanied by the government budgets and other resources necessary to ensure their operation and
maintenance. In 1999 the govermnent budget for SERNAP was only US$170,000, or only 34% of the $500,000
originally committed. In 2000, the government provided US$396,000 or 66% of the US$600,000 originally
committed.
The National Environmental Fund (FONAMA) was created in 1993 and was intended to provide recurrent cost
funding for the SNAP as a complement to GOB fiscal contributions and had a specific account for protected areas,
called the Fiduciary Account or SNAP Account. Unfortunately, FONAMA becamne highly politicized, lacked
transparency and was short on probity which caused it to quickly lost credibility. As a result, FONAMA failed to
mobilize or disburse sufficient capital to adequately manage the SNAP and the SNAP became increasingly
dependent on projects funded by the intemational donors and NGOs. In 1997, FONAMA's staff were dismissed
and its effectiveness was further compromised.
In 1999, the GOB embarked on a restructuring program to address the shortcomings of the FONAMA. A design
team of more than 20 representatives from the govemment of Bolivia, Bolivian and international NGOs, academic
institutions, independent professionals, the private sector and donors was invited by SERNAP to propose a new
-7 -



financial management structure for the SNAP. As a result of this highly participatory process, a new and
independent institution - the Foundation for the Development of the National System of Protected Areas
(FUNDESNAP) - was created as a non-profit private foundation under Bolivian law. The Trust Fund contributions
previously managed by FONAMA under the SNAP Account are being transferred to FUNDESNAP, which will
administer these and other resources for the protected areas. It will also solicit and disburse contributions from
donors, and manage funds from income-generating activities and visiting fees in the PAs.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Ecosystem conservation: The program prioritizes the conservation of ecosystems rather than individual species
and focuses on establishing protected areas of significance in every ecoregion of Bolivia. The proposed monitoring
system will measure PA management effectiveness and collect biological information, thus providing feedback for
policy- and decision-making.
Civil society partnerships: The program encourages partnerships with the civil society (NGOs, local and
indigenous communities, the private sector) as a major constituency in biodiversity management, emphasizing the
preservation of lifestyles and community rights over natural resources. Moreover, the project will explore
opportunities for sustainable biodiversity-based income generation. However, land tenure and indigenous
development are not specifically addressed since they are covered by other ongoing projects.
Decentralized protected areas management: The program adopts decentralized management of protected areas
with planning and execution by local communities and stakeholders. Decentralized management will increase
efficiency, transparency; and ensure that resources are directed to field activities rather than the central office.
Establishing the PA's management capacity is a priority, through demarcation, provision of basic infrastructure,
and development of PA management plans and annual work programs. The program also will explore models of
contracting long-term PA management to NGOs and the private sector. SERNAP will remain a small, highly
professional agency with regulatory, policy, coordination and controller functions. Additionally, SERNAP plans to
create regional groups of PAs with more autonomous management and greater decision making power.
Professional fund management: The program promotes the professional management of funds through and
independent, transparent, and accountable institution, by creating the SNAP Trust Fund under a private
foundation, FUNDESNAP.
Harmonizing and complementing existing legislation: The program addresses conflicting development policies
through harmonizing and complementing existing legislation and by developing a long-term strategic vision for
the SNAP in the context of Bolivia's sustainable development objectives.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The GEF Biodiversity Conservation Pilot Phase project showed that establishing an effective SNAP is a long-term
process requiring the gradual development of the commitment and capacity of various constituencies. Achieving
these long-term objectives will require sustained technical and financial support. Therefore, the program will last
15 years and be implemented in three 5-year phases which would be supported by GEF and other donors. (Some
bilateral donors participating in this program have already made long-term commitments. In particular, the
support from the Dutch cooperation (US$20.0 million over 20 years) and German cooperation (DM 18.0 million
from KfW and GTZ over 10 years) can be considered the foundations for ftnding phases II and III. During phase
I, the Netherlands will provide US$5.37 million and Germany will provide US$11.37 million.) Phase I will
require major GEF support. Phases 2 and 3 should involve less grant funding and increased use of GOB own
resources and lending by multilateral institutions and other donors. In approving this project, the GEF does not
acquire any further commitment to a second or third phase. The Government of Bolivia, in the agreed "Nuevo
Marco", has committed to increasing funding to the program for the period 1999-2002; moreover, FUNDESNAP
resources will be available from the second year of Phase I on. At the end of phase III, the system should be
self-sustaining and independent of donor contributions.
- 8 -



The program provides a framework for a long-term, coordinated effort by Bolivian partners and international
institutions, thus overcoming the current fragmentation of biodiversity conservation activities in the country. It
allows for developing ideas and adapting approaches that are most effective in the Bolivian context. It also will
help the government to formulate and implement a long term strategic vision for the SNAP.
Phase I (the proposed project) will develop the long-term strategic vision for the SNAP and establish the overall
framework for the long-term management and sustainability of the SNAP. It will: (i) consolidate the core
functions of SERNAP and PA administration; (ii) adopt participatory planning and management of PAs through
support to local management councils; (iii) create financing sources for PA management through the SNAP Trust
Fund and pilot revenue-generating actions to be expanded in subsequent phases; (iv) start building the knowledge
base on PA biodiversity and management through continuous monitoring; and (v) consolidate the legal and
regulatory framework.
Triggersfor Phase Il: (i) laws on biodiversity and/or on protected areas approved within two and a half years from
effectiveness of Phase I and enforced by the relevant authorities (Although it applies to Phase II, this trigger
reflects one of the GOB key commitments in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 16) and will be verified at the
mid-term review); (ii) SERNAP status as an autonomous agency is ensured through appropriate legislation and
administrative actions; (iii) SERNAP is strengthened and operating with adequate capacity, including the
conversion to regular staff of at least 80% of the personnel in the field and on key management positions hired
under the phase I of the program; (iv) PA management councils are fully operational in at least 14 areas; (v)
achieving and sustaining GOB financing for SERNAP and the SNAP according to the targets established in the
Comprehensive Development Framework for Bolivia and the GEF grant agreement. These triggers will be
reconfirmed and refined at the mid-term review of Phase 1. The preparation of Phase 11 should also start after the
mid-term review.
Phase II will focus on expanding the social and economic support to the SNAP through: (i) strengthening the
commitment of local stakeholders for PA conservation by supporting community-based income generating
activities related to PA conservation and building their managerial capacities; (ii) designing and implementing
programs for the sustainable use of biodiversity in the PAs and buffer areas, such as wildlife-based products (e.g.
vicuhia wool), ecotourism, carbon offsets and the use of genetic resources; (iii) implementing market-based cost
recovery mechanisms, such as user fees, entry fees, operation licensing, leases and concessions, taxes, surcharges,
sales of goods and services, cause-related marketing, biodiversity prospecting; and (iv) consolidating the protected
areas through full demarcation and zoning, and resolution of pending land tenure issues. This phase should also
ensure the full capitalization of FUNDESNAP through fund-raising and SNAP revenues.
Triggers for phase III: (i) partners identified with the necessary characteristics (e.g., management and planning
capacity, entrepreneurial orientation, social cohesion) to move to autonomous PA management in at least 5 PAs;
(ii) full capitalization of FUNDESNAP (i.e., all recurrent costs of the 22 PAs covered plus minimal investment
capacity) estimated at US$30 million; (iii) adequate environment for investments in biodiversity-based industries
created, through establishing and enforcing an adequate regulatory and fiscal framework, to be developed in phases
I and 11; and (iv) achieving and sustaining GOB financing for SERNAP and the SNAP according to the targets
established in the Comprehensive Development Framework for Bolivia.
Phase III will focus on consolidating the sustainability of the SNAP through: (i) strengthening the autonomous
management of protected areas, including the possibility of providing concessions for their operation and
maintenance to communities, NGOs and the private sector; (ii) investing in biodiversity-based industries
(including ecotourism); and (iii) consolidating SERNAP as a regulatory, policy-making, controller and monitoring
agency.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project corresponds to Phase I of the Program described above. The project will include five
components: (1) Institutional and Policy Development; (2) Management of Priority Protected Areas; (3) Legal and
-9-



Regulatory Framework (4) Sustainable Financing; and (5) Biodiversity Management and Monitoring in Protected
Areas.
Component 1: Institutional and Policy Development (total component cost: US$6.59 million; GEF contribution:
US$2.79 million)
This component aims to consolidate SERNAP role as the regulatory agency of the SNAP through strengthening its
policy, planning and management capacities and its ability to operate as an autonomous institution. It also will
articulate a long-term, national strategy for protected area management taking into account Bolivia's national
policies and sustainable development objectives. Main sub-components include:
I. developing a Master Plan to coordinate SERNAP long-term actions through an analysis of the representativity
gaps. The Master Plan will propose some or all of the following activities: resetting PA boundaries,
re-categorizing PAs, demarcation of PA boundaries, final legal declaration of PAs, the abandonment of
existing protected areas (abandonment of part or all of a specific protected area may result from the analysis of
critical conservation areas), and the implementation of mechanisms for generating internal revenues;
2. preparing a strategic institutional and financial plan for SERNAP, including a medium-term financial
strategy;
3. identifying mechanisms for generating internal revenues, including: service fees collection (primarily from
ecotourism); income from the sale of carbon offsets; and environmental easements and concessions.
4. strengthening SERNAP technical, managerial and operational capacity; and
5. setting up a project coordination function to support all project activities.
Component 2 : Management of Priority Protected Areas (total component cost: US$21.92 million; GEF
contribution: US$6.11 million)
This component aims to strengthen the planning and management capacities of all 22 protected areas, including
the 10 priority areas supported by GEF. The GEF areas were chosen using a decision-making matrix that took into
account the following factors: financing needs, long-term funding potential, planning needs, presence of
significant biodiversity, potential for participatory management, and potential for sustainable use of natural
resources. Other donors will support the remaining 12 areas of the SNAP, thus ensuring coverage of the entire
SNAP. The criteria for selection of the 10 priority areas and the list of all 22 protected areas is presented in Annex
18.
The precise activities to be supported within each priority area were defined through an in-depth analysis of
existing capacities, threats, and minimum needs to ensure effective management over the next 5 years. In addition,
activities will strengthen management sustainability through enhanced participation of local communities in
decision-making and PA management. GEF support will focus on two main sub-components:
1. Strengthening the operational capacity at the 10 priority protected areas. Specific activities include:
incremental salary costs; recurrent operational costs; minimum infrastructure and equipment to ensure
effective management and the proper operation of each area; preparation and enforcement of PA management
plans (for three areas); capacity strengthening, training, and environmental education in communities
neighboring PAs.
2. Strengthening of local participation and inter-institutional coordination at the 10 priority PAs. This will be
achieved by the establishment of PA management councils and providing the support necessary to ensure the
proper operation of these councils and to ensure coordination among relevant local institutions.
Component 3: Legal and Regulatory Framework (total component cost: US$0.57 million; GEF contribution:
US$0.07 million)
This component aims to establish an adequate legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity conservation and the
management of the SNAP. Main tasks include:
I. prepare and approve the Protected Areas law and support the approval of the Biodiversity Law;
2. review and propose amendments, as needed, to cross-sectoral laws and regulations,
3. prepare specific SNAP regulations for PA management, such as: PA zoning, environmental impacts,
environmental services, tourism, concession framework and other activities within PAs.
- 10 -



Component 4: Sustainable Financing (total component cost: US$9.78 million; GEF contribution: US$5.17
million)
This component aims to strengthen the financial capacity of the SNAP and identify the mechanisms to ensure its
long-term sustainability. The key mechanism will be a dedicated trust fund to provide recurrent cost financing for
protected areas. During project preparation, FUNDESNAP has been established through a public-private
partnership to manage trust funds and other donations to finance protected areas. FUNDESNAP is a private
non-profit organization with transparent procedures and an elected Board of Directors representing donors,
protected areas, local communities, NGOs, private sector and the govemment. It's main role is to mobilize and
disburse funds to support the SNAP.
The project will establish and capitalize a Trust Fund account under FUNDESNAP to finance recurrent costs of
managing protected areas. The initial focus will be to cover the needs of the 10 priority areas supported by the
GEF for the program's first phase. The recurrent costs of the remaining protected areas would be financed as
resources become available, thus allowing to shift resources from the other donors' contributions to further
investment and technical assistance to the SNAP. The initial capital for this trust fund will come from the transfer
of donor funds (US, Switzerland and UK) currently held under FONAMA (US$4.61 million) and from a GEF
endowment of US$5.0 million provided through the project and. The Trust Fund will be established abroad and
will be managed by a professional asset manager following investment guidelines approved by its Board of
Directors. The income generated from the trust fund will finance the recurrent costs of the protected areas, under
annual work programs prepared and executed by SERNAP, in partnership with PA management councils, NGOs
and other local organizations. Further details on the establishment of FUNDESNAP, its capitalization, strategic
and operational approaches are available in Annex 20. FUNDESNAP bylaws and regulations, and its operational
manual are available in project files.
Component 5: Biodiversity Management and Monitoring in Protected Areas (total component cost: US$4.83
million; GEF contribution: US$0.86 million)
This component will consolidate and complement ongoing efforts in resource management and monitoring in
protected areas and their buffer zones. With the support of the GEF grant, SERNAP will work closely with those
organizations (scientific, government agencies, NGOs, grassroots) carrying out activities directly related to this
component in order to broaden the information available and develop models that are consistent with specific
country conditions. Natural resource management subprojects will be prepared and financed by the GEF grant as
well as by other institutions working in the selected protected areas.  This component includes two
sub-components:
1. Development of modelsfor biodiversity and natural resources management in PAs, based on the ongoing
work by the SERNAP/GTZ MAPZA project team in the buffer zones of three protected areas. The GEF
funding will allow for: the systematization of ongoing experiences; the development of models specific to each
protected area; piloting of the models in the PAs for their validation; and sharing of the results. The
participation of the selected communities will be crucial to the success of this cornponent.
2. Monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity conservation involving the design, piloting and implementation of
a SNAP monitoring system. The system will be designed to evaluate the efficiency of conservation programs
in place and will provide SERNAP with guidelines for decision-making. The scorecard method developed by
the Nature Conservancy will be used as a point of departure. The outcome should be a system that can be
applied at low cost as part of PA staff daily duties and provide key information to support biodiversity
conservation and PA management.
- 11 -



A summary of the project's financing by component is presented below:
Component 1: Policy and   Other Environment     6.59       15.1    0.00       0.0     2.79    18.6
Institutional Development
Component 2: Management of Other Environment    21.92      50.2    0.00       0.0      6.11    40.7
Priority Protected Areas
Component 3: Legal and    Other Environment     0.57        1.3    0.00       0.0      0.07     0.5
Regulatory Framework
Component 4: Financial    Other Environment     9.78       22.4    0.00       0.0      5.17    34.5
Mechanisms
Component 5: Biodiversity  Other Environment    4.83       11.1    0.00       0.0      0.86     5.7
Management and Monitoring
Total Project Costs                   43.69       100.0    0.00       0.0    15.00   100.0
Total Financing Required                    43.69      100.0    0.00       0.0    15.00   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support the following key policy and institutional reforms:
1. The development of a long-term strategy for the National System of Protected Areas based on national
development plans and including cross-sectoral biodiversity management through the development of the
Master Plan.
2. The decentralization of management and decision-making for protected areas.
3. Increased participation of local communities in protected areas management and the sustainable use of natural
resources, through the PA Management Councils.
4. Establishment of strategic partnerships with civil society and the private sector.
5. Development of sustainable financial mechanisms, including innovative public/private sector partnerships,
which should reduce in governmenfs fiscal comrnitments.
6. Passage of specific laws for protected areas and for biodiversity.
7. Harmonization of national regulations that affect biodiversity conservation and the establishment of benefit
sharing mechanisms.
8. Increased financial and institutional autonomy of SERNAP, including the absorption of local long-term
consultants as SERNAP professional staff.
9. SNAP funds from FONAMA are transferred to an independent, private foundation for Protected Areas
(FUNDESNAP) aiming to provide financial sustainability for the SNAP and ensure transparency in the
management of the SNAP Trust Fund.
3. Benefits and target population:
The global benefit of the project will be the improved conservation of Bolivia's biodiversity, through the
conservation of significant areas with high levels of endemism and species richness. Bolivian biodiversity is
widely accepted to be a top priority from a global perspective. This will be complemented by the creation of
biological corridors and the sustainable use of biodiversity, to be further developed in the second phase of this
program. The project also benefits current and future generations of Bolivian society as a whole, since it will allow
the GOB to conserve the natural heritage of the country and with it, the multiple cultural, environmental, social,
and economic benefits that derive from a properly functioning system of protected areas.
The total estimated population inhabiting the 22 protected areas of the SNAP and their buffer zones, according to
SERNAP records, is about 40,000 people in 150 communities. Nearly all of these people belong to indigenous
groups and live in conditions of poverty. The GOB recognizes the communal rights of these populations to the use
- 12 -



of natural resources to support their traditional lifestyles, and therefore will foster their active participation in the
management of the protected areas, through the "comites de gesti6n" (management councils).
There is substantial experience both internationally and in Bolivia demonstrating the effectiveness of local
management committees as useful tools to facilitate the participation of local communities in protected area
management. This direct participation allows protected areas to play important social and economic roles locally,
as well as to increase their long term local acceptance and therefore social sustainability. Therefore, the PA
communities, as well as those living in the buffer zones, are key constituencies to ensure PA conservation and
therefore will be targeted for the potential benefits generated by the SNAP under the program. About 400
low-skilled jobs will be created for the management of the 10 priority areas supported by GEF, under this project.
There is also a potential for revenues to local communities through services provided to the PA administration and
visitors. The project also will identify and pilot income-generating activities based on the sustainable use of
natural resources by local communities. For example, WWF is currently working with SERNAP in biological
corridors and the proposed project will complement this work. Finally, SERNAP has adopted a policy of revenue
sharing, where part of the income generated by the PAs will be used in providing basic infrastructure and services
for local communities.
Bolivia adopted the principle of "parks with people" and therefore has no intention to resettle people living within
protected areas. However, in exceptional cases, in areas zoned for strict conservation, there might eventually be the
need for limited relocation of people. Also, there might be limitations to the access to certain areas and to the use
of PA resources. , In these cases, a Resettlement Policy Framework was established which complies with OD 4.30
requirements (See section E.5 and Annex 17 for details). Any restrictions on access to resources will be defined
jointly with the affected communities in the preparation of the PA's management plan. Alternative
revenue-generating activities will be developed as part of the management of these areas, and targeted to affected
people. In case resettlement is needed, both the affected people and the host populations will be actively involved in
the decision-making process.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall project management: The project will be implemented over a five year period by two institutions:
SERNAP and FUNDESNAP. The National Service for Protected Areas (SERNAP) is an autonomous government
agency under the guidance of the Vice-Ministry of Environment within the Ministry of Sustainable Development
and Planning. SERNAP has responsibility for developing and implementing the national system of protected
areas. The SNAP Trust Fund (financed through component 4) will be managed by the Foundation for the
Development of the National Protected Areas System (FUNDESNAP). FUJNDESNAP is a private foundation
created through a partnership among the government, NGOs, private sector and the donor community and will be
the recipient of an associated Trust Fund grant. The operational manuals for SERNAP and FUNDESNAP have
been reviewed and found satisfactory (the manuals are available in project files).
Project coordination: This function will be fully integrated into SERNAP structure. SERNAP will nominate a
project coordinator under its National Director operating from its central offices in La Paz. This coordinator will
provide overall project management, and will act as the interface between SERNAP and FUNDESNAP. S/he will
be responsible for the coordination with the SERNAP technical directors for project implementation under a global
and integrated approach. An environmental specialist will provide assistance to the Project coordinator on
technical issues. Each component (except component 4) will be headed by a Technical Leader selected from
SERNAP staff and consultants. SERNAP will be responsible for executing most of the work under the project,
with the exception of component 4 which will be executed by FUNDESNAP and headed by its Executive Director.
Ministerial oversight of the project will be provided by the Vice-Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and
Forestry Development within the MDSP.
The project coordinator will also be supported by SERNAP administrative services for procurement and financial
management activities. For this purpose, a highly qualified professional will be hired under the Director for
Finances and Administration fully dedicated to manage the SERNAP GEF funds. A Secretary will also be hired to
support the Project Coordination. An organigram showing the PC and other functions at SERNAP central unit
supported by the Program is presented in Annex 15.
- 13-



SERNAP staff will receive technical assistance from a team of national and international consultants (both short-
and long-tern). Subject matter specialists will likely include ecologists, community participation specialists,
protected area management specialists, an environmental law specialist, a sustainable finance specialist and a
monitoring and evaluation specialist. Budget resources will be provided for other short-term specialists on an
as-needed basis. Flexibility in the final use of short-term technical assistance is expected.
The management of individual protected areas will be executed by the PA directors and supported by park rangers
and administrative personnel. A Management Council will be established for each PA, comprising representatives
of farmers associations, indigenous groups and "colonos", representing 50% of the council. The remaining 50%
will be constituted by representatives from the government including SERNAP, the municipal government and the
Prefectura of the respective Departamento. These Councils will participate in the preparation of the PA
management plan and of the annual operational plans (POAs: planos operativos anuales) for the PA. They also
provide a mechanism for assisting in the resolution of PA management conflicts. Annex 15 illustrates the links
among key stakeholders.
The PAs will present their POAs to SERNAP for their review and consolidation. SERNAP will allocate the funds
for each PA and also present these plans to FUNDESNAP for the coverage of recurrent and investment costs, as
described in annex 20. The funding will be allocated in an annual basis to the PAs, and the Park Directors will
have full budgetary and procurement authority and accountability over these funds, following Bank rules for the
different thresholds. Larger procurement activities (e.g. acquisition of vehicles) will be conducted by SERNAP
central office.
Donor coordination: A donor coordination group has been established by SERNAP as a mechanism to provide
advice and coordinate technical and financial cooperation related to the SNAP. It is composed of representatives of
all donors actively supporting the SNAP under the leadership of the Director of SERNAP. The donor coordination
group will meet quarterly to review program progress and ad-hoc meetings will be held as necessary. In addition,
joint supervision of this project will be undertaken by the World Bank, GTZ/KfW and the Dutch Cooperation
whenever feasible, and at least once a year. A donor coordination protocol was agreed upon and is available in
project files.
Financial management: Two separate grant agreements will be prepared for SERNAP and FUNDESNAP.
SERNAP will be responsible for the financial management, reporting, and auditing related to the project, except
for Component 4 which will be managed by FUNDESNAP. The Bank has supported installation of a uniform
accounting system (LACI) in Bolivia for all Bank projects. SERNAP is in the process of being LACI certified and
therefore will be eligible for PMR based disbursement; as an interim arrangement, SERNAP will use traditional
Bank disbursement procedures. SERNAP will administer its GEF grant funds directly and will be responsible for
disbursement of these funds.
FUNDESNAP will be responsible for the financial management, reporting, and auditing related to Component 4 of
the project (component 4 includes both the US$5.0 million contribution to the FUNDESNAP trust fund endowment
as well as the US$0.17 million allocated for consultant services, goods and operating expenses for FUNDESNAP
in the first year of the project). FUNDESNAP will retain a professional asset manager to invest the endowment of
the Trust Fund account following intemational selection procedures. FUNDESNAP will disburse the income
generated from these investments under procedures defined by the Board of FUNDESNAP and according to the
GEF Grant Agreement. FUNDESNAP will be responsible for financial management, reporting, and auditing of
GEF proceeds, following procedures acceptable to the Bank.
SERNAP and FUNDESNAP shall both appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The auditors shall be
responsible for the annual audit of the financial statements and provide an opinion on the eligibility of expenses on
the basis of statement of expenses (SOEs) and transactions of the Special Accounts. The audited financial
statements, together with audit reports, SOEs and the Special Accounts statements shall be submitted to IDA
within four months of the end of the Project's fiscal year. The audits shall be conducted within auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Appointment of an auditor will be a
condition of effectiveness for each grant agreement.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The project coordination unit will establish a project monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system to routinely track and report on project performance through quarterly, and semi-annual
- 14 -



reports. Annual work plans will be formulated each year with specific milestones and deliverables. At the local
level, the PA management councils will assist in the formulation of annual work plans and will provide feedback
on the overall activities of PA management.
Procedures and M&E reports will be guided by: (a) the project design summary (Annex 1); and (b) the monitoring
plan as detailed in the Project's Implementation Manual. M&E is to be conducted through: (a) semi-annual
technical progress reports; (b) quarterly financial reports (once SERNAP is LACI-certified); (c) progress review
during Bank supervision missions; (c) mid-term review of project implementation to be carried out jointly by GOB,
the Bank and partner donors; (d) periodic beneficiary assessments and other special studies; (e) analysis of the
results of the biodiversity management and monitoring component, and (f) the independent technical assessment to
take place six months before Project closure.
A single joint ICR (Implementation Completion Report) will be prepared within the six months preceding the
closing date of the two grants and will include an overall performance evaluation to be contracted to an
independent organization familiar with protected areas management. The ICR will include measures of the
performance indicators and determination of the occurrence of the triggers for the program's second phase.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project preparation process considered the following alternatives:
1. A self-standing project, instead of an Adjustable Program Loan. This option was rejected because the
establishment of an integrated national system of protected areas is an ambitious goal that will require a
sustained, long-tern support to build the necessary capacity and institutions. Moreover, a 15-year program
provides a common framework for initiatives previously implemented in a fragmented and uncoordinated
manner. Finally, given the weakness of the present institutions, a single operation will involve a higher risk of
failure, while an APL allows for more flexibility in the progressive fulfillment of the program's goals.
2. Use of FONAMA as the host institution for the trust fundfor protected areas: The experience with
FONAMA showed serious administrative problems, lack of transparency, and the inappropriate use of funds.
Currently FONAMA lacks both the capacity and the credibility to raise and manage funds.
3. A series of GEF mid-size grant applications: Such funding would be relatively small, slow in coming on
stream, have gaps in timing, and not be capable of meeting the needs of an integrated program which would
cover national issues. Moreover, a number of GEF mid-sized projects could not address the trust fund
capitalization needs. However, mid-size applications could be an effective complement to the proposed
integrated SNAP sustainability program.
4. Increased individual grants to specific areas by bilateral donors. The bilateral projects to individual areas are
invaluable and a logical supplement to an integrated national program. They tend, however, to be of short
duration, focused on select specific areas, and operate under differing standards. To establish a unified
national system requires a more general program of support to provide the framework for additional funding.
5. Use of IDB instead of GEFfunds: While the IDB has as yet unallocated funds committed in principle to
environment, there has been no commitment to "green" issues and investments related to protected areas.
They also have limited experience with biodiversity conservation projects in Bolivia.
- 15 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Setorsu                           Project.                           t
. , X .f$nu g We 0~~~~~~~~~(B0
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Loss of biodiversity               Biodiversity Conservation         S             S
Project (Completed)
Environmental management           Environmental Technical           S             S
Assistance Project (Completed)
Indigenous development            Indigenous Peoples
Development Project
(preparation)
Other development agencies
Loss of biodiversity                Assistance to Biodiversity
Trust Fund within FONAMA
(USAID, DFID, CIDA, Swiss
Development Agency)
National Biodiversity strategy
(UNDP)
PA community development            Assistance to Communities in
Chaco Park USAID, WCS
Environmental management            Assistance to Buffer Zone
Management in Amboro
CARE, DFID
Assistance to PA and Buffer
Zone Management, Madidi
(CARE, Danida, EU)
- Assistance to Selected
National Protected Areas
(GTZ, The Netherlands)
Forestry                            Sustainable Forestry
Development (USAID)
* Forest management and
agroforestry in Cochabamba
FAO, UNDCP
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project builds on the experience of the first GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project (Pilot Phase), which came
to a satisfactory conclusion in 1998 and on the preliminary recommendations of the National Biodiversity Strategy
(see Annex 14). The main lessons leamed and applied in the current project design include:
1. A realistic time frame must be adopted when working towards achieving long-term financial and social
sustainability of protected areas. A traditional 5-year project would not have been sufficient to achieve this.
Therefore, an APL format has been adopted.
2. Protected area systems must reflect national realities in terms of the number of areas, ecoregion coverage, and
balance of management categories. By prioritizing and rationalizing the number of national protected areas,
better long range budgeting and control can be expected. The Master Plan will provide this guidance.
3. Before promoting the expansion of a national system of protected areas, a core of well run, adequately
functioning areas should be in place. In order to be sustainable, the expansion should be based on an
ecosystem representativity analysis, the identification of financial resource gaps and limitations, and the
capacity to enforce protection. Capacity building and institutional strengthening are crucially important and
are explicitly addressed.
4. The probability of success is much improved if there is substantive local participation in the definition of
objectives and the management of protected areas and mechanisms are included to ensure that local
communities benefit from protected areas. Community participation and benefit sharing are fundamental
features of this project.
5. National ownership, if it is to be independent of government change, must be based on a long-term vision of
the protected area system is shared by civil society. Preparation workshops, protected area management
councils, partnership programs, environmental education and promotion campaigns will increase such
ownership.
6. There is a need to ensure the autonomy and professionalism of SERNAP as the agency responsible for the
SNAP. Therefore, it should be shielded whenever possible from direct political interference. The
institutionalization of the SNAP and of SERNAP is essential. Personnel appointments, particularly of key
management staff, should be based on professional criteria and qualifications, rather than on political
networks.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The creation of a sustainable national system for protected areas has been the main focus of GOB environmental
policy in the last few years. Bolivia has about 17% of its national territory under some level of protection; one of
the highest rates worldwide. The GOB has consistently pursued its goal of creating a sustainable, autonomous and
participatory SNAP and significant steps were recently undertaken. In 1997, SERNAP has been transformed into
an independent agency of the MDSP, thus allowing for more autonomy in decision-making and managing funds.
A biodiversity law has been prepared and presented to the legislature and specific regulations were issued for
protected areas. The GOB endorses the proposed program as a high priority and has committed to provide US$3.3
million of counterpart funds for its first phase of five-years (through a combination of MOE budget allocations and
SNAP revenues). This represents a four-fold increase in SERNAP budgetary resources.
On October 2000, the GOB signed an agreement with the leaderships of farmers', indigenous and colonizers'
organizations reaffirming the participation of such organizations in the Management Councils of the protected
areas. Moreover, the agreement specifies that these Councils should be composed by 50% of representatives of
these organizations and 50% from the Government, and that these Councils will have full decision-making powers.
Further details on the current GOB policies are spelled out in Annex 16 (Letter of Sector Policy).
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The World Bank brings to this project its experience of similar programs both regionally and worldwide, as well
as the ability to provide a comprehensive framework for coordinating the efforts of the national and international
partners working to conserve Bolivia's biodiversity. The value-added of Bank support includes the ability to
mobilize international experts, supervision capacity, technical support for preparation of subsequent phases,
- 17 -



coordination with similar efforts in other countries, networking with other sources of expertise and financing, and
a continuous policy dialogue on sustainable development. The Bank procurement, contracting, disbursement, and
disclosure procedures provide a framework for transparency and accountability in project activities.
GEF funding provides a permanent endowment capital for FUNDESNAP that will help to cover recurrent
operational costs of integrated conservation management of the SNAP, in addition to GOB resources. This is a
critical catalyst for other donors' contributions. Also, the GEF support provides credibility and creates a framework
for other donors' activities.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* hicremental Cost
0 Other (specify)
The project's general objective is to contribute to the conservation of Bolivia's highly diverse biota by generating a
long-term development strategy and establishing a reliable basis for sustainability of its protected area system. The
GEF alternative would achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost of $15.0 million. Under the Baseline
scenario, Bolivia will be able to manage a sub-set of its protected areas, (mostly those that received support through
the GEF Pilot Phase Project) as well as to maintain an adequate level of central support to the system. Total
expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$28.69 million. Under the GEF Alternative scenario,
Bolivia will be able to set the basis for sustainability of its SNAP based on long-term planning and social and
financial tools. This will result in an organic system of protected areas with presence of SERNAP and with
mechanisms in place to achieve effective management. Specific outcomes will include:
I . Integrated approach for SNAP that responds to social, economic, and political realities; clear long-term "State
Vision" for the SNAP;
2. Ecoregional representation within the SNAP, and greater coverage of globally significant areas.
3. Establishment of financial mechanisms that will stabilize the fiscal burden on the state;
4. Increased community participation, system ownership, and poverty alleviation in areas in and around protected
areas;
5. An established basis for sustainability on all grounds (social, financial, and ecological);
6. Definition of long-term management needs for the entire system and identification of funding gaps; and
7. Development of biological monitoring and evaluation systems.
Total expenditures under the GEF Alternative scenario are estimated at US$43.69 million.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The total project costs of US$43.69 million are divided between investment (US$31.95 million) and recurrent
(US$11.74 million) costs. The resources to fund these costs will be provided by a variety of sources: Government
of Bolivia (US$4.50 million); FUNDESNAP (US$2.29 million); FONAMA Trust Fund (US$3.61 million); PL4S0
(US$1.0 million); GEF (US$15.00 million); Government of Germany (US$11.37 million); Government of the
Netherlands (US$5.37 million); and local NGOs (US$0.55 million). During the operational period, US$2.08
million will be required to cover recurrent and investment costs in the 10 priority areas supported by GEF and in
the central unit of SERNAP. These resources will be provided by govemment, intemational and NGO sources. An
estimated US$30 million are needed to cover the recurrent costs for all the 22 protected areas; this will be a trigger
for phase III.
FUNDESNAP income is estimated based on an investment plan contemplating a 6.5% annual net return and
additional endowment resources of US$1.0 million per year during the five years of the project. FUNDESNAP
disbursements from the Trust Fund income will be used to finance primarily the recurrent costs of the management
of the 10 priority PAs supported by GEF. The recurrent costs for other areas would be progressively covered, as
- 18-



additional funds are raised by FUNDESNAP; this would allow for shifting other donors' resources to additional
investment and technical assistance, as needed.
It is assumed that FUNDESNAP will raise $5 million in capital contributions during the 5 year project, and $15
million in endowment capital is a trigger for Phase II. However, given the uncertainty about the flow of these
contributions over time, it is difficult at this stage to estimate the potential income generated by them during the
first phase. The additional endowment income generated would be distributed by the Board following the
endowment management rules, with the non-objection of the Bank.
Fiscal Impact:
The total contribution to the project from the Government of Bolivia is projected to be US$4.5 million over five
years. In July 1999, under the "Nuevo Marco", the GOB has committed increasing amounts to SERNAP:
US$600,000 for the year 2000, US$700,000 for 2001, and US$800,000 for 2002. For the following years, these
contributions will come from resources generated from the national system of protected areas with additional funds
provided by the central budget to ensure a minimum total contribution of US$0.6 million annually. The SNAP is
projected to generate US$1.5 million over the five years of the project implying an additional US$3.00 million
allocation from the central budget. These resources will be used to support both protected area and central unit
recurrent and investment costs. In addition, the GOB will provide counterpart resources necessary to cover any
taxes on goods purchased through the project (estimated at US$0.1 million over the five years of the project).
3. Technical:
An investment strategy for the Trust Fund endowment has been adopted by the FUNDESNAP Board and the
selection of the asset manager will be based on the candidates' response to it, among other criteria. The
investment strategy aims to promote growth in income without putting the endowment at undue risk. Net income
projections from Trust Fund investments and from alternative revenue sources will be developed to assist SNAP
annual planning. A crucial challenge for FUNDESNAP will be to raise additional endowment contributions for
the SNAP trust fund. Technical assistance by the project is intended to increase the success of FUNDESNAP fund
raising activities. Delaying FUNDESNAP disbursements until the second year of the project will create reserves,
thus reducing the risk of invading the TF capital.
Both biodiversity friendly income generating activities and effective biodiversity monitory are considered as
necessary elements for successful protected area management. However, effective examples of these two activities
are limited. Component 5 of the proposed project will support pilot activities to develop models for biodiversity
friendly income generating activities and effective biodiversity monitoring.
4. Institutional:
Basic information on institutional arrangements is provided in section C.4 above.
4.1 Executing agencies:
SERNAP and FUNDESNAP are independent equals, and the working relationship between them will be regulated
by an implementation agreement establishing the responsibilities and duties of both institutions, the annual
funding cycle, the expenditure categories, and reporting requirements. In addition, special legal documents will
spell out the specific conditions and procedures for every donation and other sources of funding mobilized by
FUNDESNAP. For the purposes of this project, a GEF Trust Fund Annex has been prepared establishing the policy
and operational procedures for the use of the GEF funds and their income. These have also been incorporated in
FUNDESNAP Operational Manual. These documents are available in Project Files.
4.2 Project management:
During the project, key management positions in SERNAP and in the PAs currently filled by consultants will be
progressively converted to civil service positions. In addition, by the end of project all PA rangers will have been
19 -



converted to regular positions. Presently there is no legal constraint for funding these civil servant positions,
partially or fully, through private resources to be transferred by FUNDESNAP.
According to current regulations, SERNAP can delegate legal authority to other agencies (including NGOs and
private sector) to enforce protected area regulations in the areas they are managing; however, the legal basis for
this approach should be refined and reinforced through the passage of the Protected Areas Law.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Under this project, FUNDESNAP procurement is limited to the selection of a few consultants and key staff
personnel. The procurement procedures for FUNDESNAP have been incorporated in its Operational Manual.
The SERNAP Operations Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding
Documents to be used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and goods procured on
the basis of three quotations or shopping. An assessment of the capacity of SERNAP to implement procurement
actions for the project was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor (RPA). The assessment reviewed the
organizational structure of SERNAP and the interaction between the project's procurement officer, the project
manager and the financial officer. The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) the possibility of changes in
the procurement capacity by the time the project starts; and (ii) no experience on Bank procurement procedures.
SERNAP has already presented a detailed plan to address these risks which involves preparing a training program
for less experienced staff. Monitoring of procurement actions and evaluation of contracts awarded under this
project are key activities envisaged in the action plan, with a specific allocation of human and financial resources.
Document filing is acceptable and complies with the Bank's requirements.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Financial Management Specialist for Bolivia conducted an assessment of the accounting, controls over
disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level of administrative staff. It was
deternined that SERNAP has in place accounting and internal control systems compliant with the
requirements of the Bank expressed in OP 10.02 and that provide adequate reporting of the financial
position of the entity as well as of all financial transactions of the project including those transactions
involving the use of Bank funds. The systems also provide sufficient financial information for managing
and monitoring project activities. Furthermore, it was determined that the systems provide the historical
cost accumulation by loan category and component and support the production of timely PMRs required
for PMR based disbursements. Accordingly a certificate was issued by the Financial Management
Specialist for SERNAP as qualified to use PMR based disbursements.
FUNDESNAP will report periodically on the performance and use of the capital contribution made by GEF under
the project and will follow record keeping and control procedures that respond to the OP 10.02 requirements.
5. Environmental:                    Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project aims to achieve the sustainable management of the National System of Protected areas. The project
components are not expected to have any significant negative impacts on the environment. Field construction
activities are small scale, involving the construction of guard posts, small buildings and trails. However, there may
be impacts from induced activities related to tourism development in buffer zones, the construction of ecotourism
lodges, access roads and interpretation trails. Sustainable economic activities planned within buffer zones (e.g.,
agro-ecological production, sustainable harvesting of non-timber products and bio-prospecting activities) may also
have minor impacts.
- 20 -



To address these impacts, an Environmental Impact Framework was developed and is presented in Annex 13 to
ensure that the impacts of these activities are fully prevented or mitigated. The SERNAP Environmental
Assessment Unit will implement EA in protected areas in coordination with the MDSP and in accordance with the
MDSP Guidelines for Environmental Assessment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The SERNAP administration has adopted an environmental and socio-cultural protection strategy for the protected
areas during the implementation of the GEF project on Biodiversity Conservation (1992/98). This strategy is
based on the implementation of management plans, the application of internal regulations in each Protected Area,
and the elaboration of specific environmental assessment studies on infrastructure construction, road repair, and
ecotourism. Within this context, specific ecosystem protection regulations have been developed for protected areas
and are enforced through administrative and technical procedures, described below:
1. SERNAP, the Protected Area Director, and technical staff of the diverse protected areas must establish and
recognize the infrastructure needs for each protected area (housing, interpretation centers, roads, etc.), define
the priorities for construction, and evaluate the budget available for the planned infrastructure works.
2. For every building or infrastructure construction within the PAs, a specific environmental impact study will be
prepared by the proponent (PA management or private owner), that includes the site's biotic, abiotic and
socio-cultural resource assessment, determining the limits and area to be affected.
3. The studies must include at least two altemative locations for the infrastructure construction, evaluated on
their technical and financial merits. These options must be submitted to the consideration of the Bolivian
National Protected Areas System authorities and to the National Directorate of Environmental Impacts at the
MSDP for final approval. In case significant environmental impacts are identified in any of the altematives,
the consultant who elaborated the alternative must modify the design so that it is optimal from an
environmental standpoint.
4. In case the infrastructure is constructed under Concessionaire terms inside the protected area, the process shall
comply with the regulations established by the By-Laws of the Environmental Law. This law prescribes the
need to:
*   Elaborate an Environmental Card (classifying the type of environmental study)
o   Elaborate an Environmental Impact Assessment Study that includes detailed negative environmental
impact mitigation measures, and
*   Obtain the Environmental Impact Statement issued by the National Directorate of Environmental
Impact.
5. The National Authority on Protected Areas jointly with the National Directorate of Environmental Impact will
follow up and oversight the established procedures (terms of reference, invitation and elaboration of
proposals). They will approve the studies done within the environmental assessment framework and supervise
the execution of the mitigation measures agreed upon.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: November 8, 2000
Environmental assessments will be conducted within the Environmental Impact Framework described in Annex
13. Specific EAs for individual field construction activities will be prepared during the planning process prior to
the start of construction.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders will be consulted during the process of preparing the specific EAs for individual field
construction activities.
-21 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
SERNAP, jointly with the National Directorate of Environmental Impact, will monitor the impact of field
construction activities on the environment. They will approve the studies done within the environmental
assessment framework and supervise the execution of the agreed mitigation measures.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The projecfs field activities are implemented in areas occupied by a diverse range of social groups including
indigenous people. An estimated 40,000 people currently live within the boundaries of Bolivia's protected areas.
Even though revenue sharing and income-generating activities should provide benefits to local conmmunities, there
would be potential negative impacts affecting them in the short-term. These would include both the local poor who
presently engage in clandestine exploitation of protected area resources and influential business interests who also
benefit from these activities. Key potential negative impacts on these social groups may involve: (a) the relocation
of a limited number of families from areas eventually to be zoned as of strict preservation, and (b) restrictions on
the use of natural resources within the protected areas.
In accordance with OD 4.30 and OD 4.20, a social assessment has been carried out in six representative protected
areas with community presence. The study, undertaken by a team of Bolivian experts, concluded that there are
potential synergies between the development objectives of local/indigenous communities and the conservation
objectives of protected areas. This commonality of interests between the State, civil society organizations and local
and indigenous populations could generate alliances supporting the project objectives.
Extensive and systematic consultations were undertaken with key social actors and institutions in Santa Cruz,
Cochabamba, Tarija, La Paz and in selected PAs. These identified a high acceptance of and support to the project
among the various social groups, and a general willingness to participate actively in PA management. Issues
identified by this study include: (i) although land tenure by communities is generally compatible with the PAs,
conflicts of interest may arise with restrictions on land use by private owners in some areas; (ii) enforcement of PA
management could represent an additional restriction on customary rights, as well as a restriction on new settlers
within the PAs; (iii) restricting the use of natural resources for subsistence could impose constraints on community
development; (iv) fires, overgrazing and illegal logging are serious environmental hazards, encouraged by the lack
of economic alternatives for local communities; and (v) alternative income generating activities would require
better access to credit, specific training in natural resource use and strong environmental education campaigns.
The findings of the social assessment and the consultation results have been incorporated in the overall project
design; these reports are available on project files and a summary is presented in Annex 12.
The project itself is designed as a process framework for incorporating the needs and aspirations of local and
indigenous communities into the SNAP Master Plan as well as in the planning and management of PAs and buffer
zones. Their participation through the PA management councils in both the preparation of the PA management
plans and the annual action plans is key to ensure that these communities will benefit from protected areas. In
particular, the project targets specifically these communities in developing and piloting models for income
generation within the PAs and buffer zones. The "Sustainable Development with Identity Plans" already prepared
for four PAs will serve as a reference for these activities. The preparation of the annual PA action plans will
specifically contemplate the specific issues of indigenous development in the protected areas and buffer zones.
SERNAP has adopted a strategy to address the specific issues of indigenous people living within and around the
PAs this strategy is presented in Annex 12.
Even though revenue sharing and income-generating activities should provide benefits to local communities, it is
recognized that, in attempting to bring order to protected areas management, there may be adversely affected
individuals over the short term. The GOB adopted the principle of "parks with people" and therefore no major
resettlement is expected to take place. However, if the PAs zoning eventually indicates the need for limited
relocation of people and/or the need to restrain the access to certain natural resources within the PAs, these issues
- 22 -



will be addressed in accordance with the policy framework for Population Issues within the PAs adopted by the
GOB; this policy framework is presented in Annex 17.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
SERNAP has clearly established participatory mechanisms and instruments for the management of protected areas
and this project has been prepared through intensive consultations with NGOs, PA communities, local authorities,
and the private sector (the report on these consultations and analysis of their results is available in project files).
The project will improve participation by strengthening local PA management councils and by including
participatory social evaluations supported by updated information from the SNAP Monitoring System
(strengthened under component 5). This system will aim to better assess the positive and negative social impacts
of conservation in protected areas and buffer zones. Such mechanisms will make it possible to identify and resolve
conflicts related to protected areas management and will allow for the timely adjustment of activities based on
established participation policies. The monitoring system should facilitate a quick and effective response to any
social conflicts that may arise. The evaluations will include the participation of Government institutions, NGOs,
academic institutions, existing participatory bodies (management councils and partnership institutions), local
governments (municipios and prefecturas), local communities, and other related institutions.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of this project would be rural people in local communities living within the national
protected areas and their buffer zones. As mentioned above, these communities live under conditions of extreme
poverty and would be expected to benefit from the project by being involved in protected area management, by
assistance to develop alternative sources of income and by participating in revenue sharing activities.
Secondary beneficiaries include resource users who depend on environmental services, tourists and workers in the
tourism sector, and the scientific community.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders include municipalities, Prefecturas, universities, NGOs, and civil society organizations. In
particular, the following institutions have been identified as key stakeholders: Academia Nacional de Ciencias;
Museo de Historia Natural Noel Kempf Mercado; IUCN-Bolivia; WWF-Bolivia, LIDEMA (Liga de Defensa del
Medio Ambiente); Direcci6n General de Biodiversidad; CIDOB (Central de Indigenas del Oriente Boliviano); and
Confederaci6n Sindical Unica de Trabajadores Campesinos de Bolivia (CSUTCB).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The management committees established at individual protected areas will facilitate the consultation and
collaboration with NGOs and other civil society organizations in the management of specific protected areas.
Component 2 of the project contains the sub-component "Strengthening of Local Participation in the SNAP" which
will strengthen the ability of NGOs and other civil society organizations to participate in protected area
management decision making. Component 5 will also work closely with NGOs and civil society in the preparation
of natural resource management sub-projects.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
SERNAP will coordinate social and indigenous issues of its Protected Areas Management Plans with the respective
responsible agencies in charge of the Indigenous District Development Plans and TCOs Management Plans.
Specific arrangements for the implementation of the IPDPs will be established, involving the PA Management
Committees, Municipalities, the Ministry of Indigenous Affairs, INRA, CIDOB (Confederacion Indigena del
Oriente de Bolivia) and specialized NGOs.
- 23 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes through beneficiary assessments,
technical evaluation reports, and through independent project and program evaluations.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safepard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                        0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                         0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                           0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                       0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                  * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)        0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)              0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The provisions made to ensure compliance with the applicable safeguard policies are described in the previous two
sections covering social and environmental issues.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed program would contribute to the sustainability of biodiversity conservation in Bolivia through
establishing a national protected areas system and also ensuring the sustainability of each PA within the system.
Sustainability is the ultimate goal of this program and most components are designed to help achieve
environmental, financial, institutional and social sustainability.
Environmental sustainability will be achieved by ensuring that the system includes PAs of adequate dimensions
and characteristics to maintain ecological and evolutionary processes, biological corridors and the sustainable use
of natural resources and biodiversity. The project will identify any gaps in typology of the SNAP and propose a
strategy to cover them within the capacity of the system.
Financial sustainability will be achieved, in the long-term, by expanding cost recovery and other financing
mechanisms that complement the GOB's budgetary allocations for protected area management (including
investment and operational costs of the SNAP). The establishment of an independent, transparent and accountable
private trust fund (FUNDESNAP) is the cornerstone of sustainable financial management for the SNAP.
Institutional sustainability will be achieved through the full institutionalization of the SNAP and SERNAP. This
involves ensuring SERNAP's autonomy and mandate through an appropriate legal framework, building a strong
management capacity at the national and local levels and building partnerships with civil society and other
national and international institutions.
Social sustainability will be achieved through strengthening the constituencies that would support the SNAP and
the effective management of the PAs. For this purpose, the project adopts: participatory planning and management
of PAs; strategic partnerships and coordination with key stakeholders; and distributing PA benefits to local and
indigenous communities through revenue-sharing and income-generating activities.
- 24 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
GOB development policies are not            M         Recent policy statements indicate increased
compatible with conservation of protected             understanding of the need for PA management
areas and sustainable development.                   (see Annex 16). GOB plans to introduce
changes in the mining code to make it more
environmentally friendly.
GOB abandons decentralization policy.       N         The current cabinet is deeply committed to
decentralization and decentralization is
supported by strong social pressures.
SERNAP staff at the central unit and/or     S         Project will support technical capacity in place
at the field level rotates often for political        under stable contracts.
reasons.
Participation policies are not supported by  M        Project creates specific mechanisms for their
national and local authorities.                       participation in the PA management councils.
Biodiversity law is not approved.           M         Project will support raising the awareness of
decision-makers and the public on the issues at
stake through workshops and education
campaigns.
Controls by local communities and           M         Project creates park ranger jobs with priority to
patrolling are not effective and sustained.          local community members. It also creates
economic incentives for communities and
recognizes their rights to sustainable use of PA
resources.
Investment returns on FUNDESNAP trust       M         Investment strategy designed to ensure constant
fund less than projected.                             funding level. Professional asset manager will
be hired.
Insufficient additional endowment capital   M         Project will support FUNDESNAP fund-raising
is raised to ensure full coverage of PA               activities.
recurrent costs.
From Components to Outputs
Political commitment to SNAP weakened.      N         Political change could affect commitment.
Willingness of stakeholders to participate  M         Project creates several incentives to foster
in field activities.                                  participation and share benefits with local
communities
Availability of counterpart funds and       M         GOB has committed to provide counterpart
staff                                                funds from Ministry budget resources.
Timely procurement of goods and             M         Large procurement packages to be ready by
services.                                             effectiveness. Project will train staff on Bank
procurement procedures.
Overall Risk Rating                         S         Continuous coordination among donor partners;
regular briefings with project teams, NGOs and
other stakeholders; joint supervision.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 25 -



Risks from Objective to Purpose.
Risk                 Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Objective to Purpose
Environmental issues stop being a priority  M    Project supports sustained public awareness of
for GOB.                                         environmental issues.
Donors do not engage in the long-term     M      Bank and donor partners to raise subject periodically
financing arrangements for SNAP.                 in CAS and CG meetings.
Donors reduce financing of alternative    M      Bank and donor partners to raise subject in CAS and
rural development projects in PAs and            CG meetings, as needed.
buffer zones.
External pressures on the PA resources    S      Ministry of Environment and Sustainable
increase (in particular in the lowlands).        Development to enforce EA regulations. Additional
funds to counter impacts of development on PAs must
be budgeted within projects.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Some of the wildlife resources used by local and indigenous communities in the PAs are listed in the CITES
Appendix 11, which implies their trade is subject to strict regulation. The project might not be able to limit the
scale of trading of wildlife products in Bolivia in the short-termn, thus posing a reputational risk for SERNAP and
the Bank. Given the complexity of this subject, no sustainable use activities directly targeting CITES Appendix 11
species will be supported by this operation.
Decisions to realign PA boundaries and restrictions on current resource use practices through zoning could reduce
local commitment to PA management plans unless these decisions are taken with local stakeholders input and
support. A Policy Framework for Involuntary Resettlement has been agreed which should mitigate this potential
area of controversy.
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Conditions for effectiveness for the grant agreements with SERNAP and FUNDESNAP include the completion of
the following actions, respectively:
SERNAP:
1. SERNAP has established the project coordination mechanism according to the terms of reference.
2. SERNAP has employed the key project personnel with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
3. The Government of Bolivia has appointed an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
FUNDESNAP:
1. FUNDESNAP has signed the contract with the Asset Manager for the SNAP Trust Fund.
2. The FUNDESNAP Trust Fund financial account has been opened.
3. The Government of Bolivia has effectively transferred the funds in the current FONAMA CF/SNAP account
(British and Swiss grants) to FUNDESNAP.
4. The Government of Bolivia has effectively transferred the funds under the PL-480 project to FUNDESNAP.
5. FUNDESNAP has employed the key project personnel with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
6. FUNDESNAP has appointed an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
- 26 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
A. Negotiations Conditions:
The conditions for negotiations included the following:
I . "Nota reversal" signed by the govemment of Switzerland authorizing the transfer of its funds from the
FONAMA SNAP Trust Fund (CF/SNAP) to FUNDESNAP.
2. Act signed by the Administrative Council of the CF/SNAP authorizing the breaking of the trust fund deposited
in the JP Morgan Bank in New York, USA.
3. Draft of the tri-ministerial resolution that will regulate the budget transfer from FONAMA to SERNAP and
the subsidiary agreement between SERNAP and FUNDESNAP.
4. Receipt by the GOB of the first steps of the extinction of the trust funds deposited in the JP Morgan Bank in
New York, USA, including the final agreement with JP Morgan on the transaction costs and the total amount
to be transferred to FUNDESNAP.
5. Transfer agreement for the PL-480 funds to the financial account to be administered by FUNDESNAP.
6. Investment plan for the FUNDESNAP Trust Fund approved by the FUNDESNAP Board of Directors.
B. Board Presentation Conditions:
The board presentation conditions included:
1. Contract negotiated for the asset manager of the FUNDESNAP GEF Trust Fund.
2. Signing of the Implementation Agreement between SERNAP and FUNDESNAP.
3. Confirmation letter by GOB on the transfer of PL-480 funds to the SNAP trust fund and choice of the areas to
be specifically funded through PL-480 among the 10 selected areas under the GEF Project.
C. Other Conditions:
The following conditions where originally conditions of Board presentation and have been substantially complied
with. The final confirmation of the instruments pertaining to these conditions are expected prior to presentation to
the Board.
1. Signed tri-ministerial resolution that regulates the budget transfer from FONAMA to SERNAP.
2. "Nota reversal" signed by the government of the United Kingdom authorizing the transfer of its funds from the
FONAMA SNAP Trust Fund (CF/SNAP) to FUNDESNAP.
H. Readiness for Implementation
I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
ED 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 27 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
E' beth Monosowski                JohnRedwood                   QrIsabal M. Guerrro
----Team  Leader                      ector Manager                     Country Manager
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
Wieroot of tdes                              Indicators                Monitoring & -vaWftin    Cv%ti-pt
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:                  Sectorl country reports:            (from  Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote ruralUagricultural sustainable   * Increased effectiveness of biodiversity * PA scorecards applying the WWF
development and protection of natural    protection inside protected areas;  protected areas scorecard
resources in Bolivia through the                                          methodology;
increase of protected areas with    * Increased social support for protected
adequate on-site management to       areas as cost-effective tools to achieve * Analysis of available socio-economnic
improve environmental quality.       sustainable natural resources        data in districts with protected areas;
management;
a Biological indicator sections of the
* Enhanced local participation in    scorecards;
revenue-generating activities deriving
from protected area management.   * Beneficiary assessment.
Program  Purpose:                   End-of-Program  Indicators:   Program  reports:                         (from  Purpose to Goal)
Representative ecosystems and       * Sufficient financing is secured to  * SERNAP progress reports;        * Environmental issues continue to be a
biodiversity conserved and sustainably   continuously sustain the SNAP                                        priority for the GOB;
managed through a national system of    management, including the full  * FUNDESNAP annual reports;         * Donors engage in the long-term
protected areas in Bolivia which is   operation and naintenance costs of all * Master Plan;                   financing arrangements for SNAP;
self-sustained, transparent,         protected areas (PAs) within SNAP;
decentralized and managed through   *  l  ao  cssesaerpeetd*# of PA management plans prepared   , Donors continue to finance alternative
decenalize ardmanagd tbrugh    All major ecosystems are represented   and implemented,               rural development projects in PAs and
partnerships.                        in the SNAP with sizable areas that  and imleened                        rurfe don t           sP
can ensure their sustainability;  * # of PA annual work plans prepared    buffer zones;
* All PAs are under participatory     every year;                       * External pressures on the PA
management by active, multi-partner  * # of Consejos de administracion  resources do not significantly
management councils (Consejos de    operating satisfactorily;           increase
administracion);                  * PA scorecards applying the WWP
* Local communities within and around   protected areas scorecard
the PAs are actively involved and   methodology;
committed to PA conservation;     * Independent projectlprogram
* All existing and new protected areas    evaluations;
to be created during the 1 5-year  * Beneficiary assessment
program and the biodiversity
corridors are managed according to
national stategic priorities established
by the Master Plan, and periodically
revised;
* Management effectiveness of SNAP
increases by an average of 2 points
and no area has a score under 2
(based on the project's protected areas
scorecard methodology).
-29 -



GEF Operational Program:
Promoting and integrating sustainable   * Increased effectiveness of biodiversity * PA scorecards applying the WWF
biodiversity conservation through   protection inside protected areas;  protected areas scorecard
integrated ecosystem management with * Increased social support for protected   methodology;
of the Andean region (OP 4) and forest   areas as cost-effective tools to achieve * Analysis of available socio-economic
ofth Andan rgio (OP4) ad foest sustainable natural resources  data in districts with protected areas;
ecosystems (OP3)                    management;                       * Biological indicator sections ofthe
* Enhanced local participation in   scorecards;
revenue-generating activities deriving
from protected area management.
Global Objective:                 Outcome I Impact                    Project reports:                  (from  Objective to Purpose)
Indicators:
Policy, financial, legal, and institutional * An efficient management system is    * SERNAP progress reports;  * Environmental issues continue to be a
frameworks and knowledge base       established for the SNAP;                                             priority for the GOB;
established and strengthened for the                                  0 FUJNDESNAP annual reports;
long-term management and f          A long-term Master plan is developed                        .       * Donors engage in the long-term
sustainability of the National System of   within an appropriate legal  * Master Plan,                    financing arangements for SNAP;
Protected Aicas.                    framework;                       * # of PA management plans prepared  * Donors continue to finance altemative
* The functionality of 10 PAs has been   and implemented,              rural development projects in PAs and
achieved as measured by an increase  * # of PA annual work plans prepared    buffer zones;
in management effectiveness by 1.5    every year;                   * External pressures on the PA
points on average and no PA less than
2.0;                             * # of Consejos de administracion   resources do not significantly
operating satisfactorily;         increase.
* Operating PA Management Councils
have increased from 5 to 14.     * PA scorecards applying the WWF
protected areas scorecard
* SNAP Trust Fund (FUNDESNAP) is   methodology;
fully operational and its capital
endowment has increased to at least   * Independent project/program
US$ 15 million, covering about 30%    evaluations;
of the SNAP recurrent costs;     * Beneficiary assessment.
* Adequate legislation has been passed
and is enforced to conserve
biodiversity and protected areas
within two years of project
effectiveness.
- 30 -



Output from  each                  Output Indicators:                  Project reports:                   (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1                        * Long term Master Plan developed,    * Project reports;               a GOB development policies are
compatible with conservation of
SERNAP policy, planning and        * Institutional development/business    * Agreements, minutes of meetings;  protected areas and sustainable
management capacities strengthened   plan prped and adopted;           * M&E system;                        development;
* Coordination strategy with
govermnment, NGOs, CBOs and       * Partnership evaluations and         GOB conttinues to support
private sector adopted,            agrmts;                             deoentrlization;
* Inter-institutional coordination and    * lnstitutional assessment studies.  * SERNAP staff of Central Unit and at
partnerships established;                           ~~~~~~~~~~~field level is stable, i.e. not rem-oved
partnerships established;                                              for political reasons;
* Income-revenue mechanisms                                            * Participation policies keep in place
identified and implemented;                                            and are supported by national and
* Phase-ll project prepared.                                            local authorities;
Component 2                        * The functionality of 10 PAs has been  * Project reports;             * Govenmment supports the approval of
achieved as measured by an increase                                    biodiversity law;
Planning and management capacities of   n mueved  eas ecveness by an   * Management Plans and
10 protected areas strengthened     average of 1.5 points in the scorecards  implementation reports;      * Suflicitet aditional endowment
average of 1.5 points in the scorecards             ~~~capital is raised to ensure full
and no PA with a score of less than    * Reports and minutes from the  coverage ofsPA recurrent costs;
* Management system stengthened              de Gestin.                * Controls by local communities and
patrolling are effective and sustained.
* Management plans for 3 protected
areas prepared and under
implementation (8 of 10 priority PAs
have management plans);
* PA Management Councils operational
for 15 protected areas.
Component 3                        * Protected Areas law prepared and  * Official publication of laws and
Adequate legal and regulatory        presnted for approval by Congress    regulations.
framework established              * Sector regulations reviewed, adapted
for protected areas, and issued.
Component 4                        * FUNDESNAP established as a        * FUNDESNAP Trust Fund financial
capitalized tnust fund to support  reports;
Financial capacity of SNAP           recurrent costs of the SNAP;      * FUNDESNAP annual reports;
sliengdied                         * Annual disbursement to 10 priorty    * UESNAP ancial reports
areas covers recurrent costs;    * SERNAP fmancial reports
* FUNDESNAP  mobilizes  a  total * PA annual work plans and budgets.
capital endowment of US$15 million.
Component 5                        * Models for biodiversity management  * Beneficiary assessments;
developed and piloted at 3 PAs
Models for biodiversity management   (SERNAP/GTZ MAPZA project);    * Scorecards;
and monitoring in PAs developed and
tested                             * Monitoring and evaluation system of * Technical and evaluation reports.
biodiversity conservation established
and operating .
- 31 -



Project Components I              Inputs: (budget for each          Project reports:                  (from Components to
Sub-components:                   component)                                                          Outputs)
Component 1: Policy and           USS6.59 millbn                    * Technical reports;              * Political commnitment to SNAP
Institutional Development.        (GEF component cost: USS2.79                      , -rs rprs          maintained,
* Master Plan and related studies;  million)*Prgesept;
* Strategic Institutional & Financial                               * Protected area scorecards;      * GEFAVB disbursements on time.
plan;                                                              * Local participation agreernents;
* Mechanisms for revenue generation;                                * Copies of contracts;
* Institutional strengthening;                                      * Copies of agreements;
* Project Coordination;                                             * Financial reports;
* Evaluation reports;
Component 2: Management of        USS2 1.92 million                 * Project supervision reports;
Priority Protected Areas          (GEF component cost: US$6.11
* Strengthening of SNAP's operational million)                      * GTZlKfl reports.
capacity at specific protected areas;
* Strengthening of local participation at
the SNAP.
Component 3: Legal and Regulatory USS0.57 million
Framework                         (GEF component cost: USS0.07
* Law on protected areas          million)
* Cross-sector and specific regulations.
Component 4: Sustainable financing US$9.78 million
* FUNDESNAP Trust Fund.           (GEF component cost: US$5.17
million)
Component 5: Blodiversity         USS4.83 million
Management and Monitoring.        (GEF component cost: US$0.86
* Models for biodiversity resources    milion)
management;
* Monitoring and Evaluation of
biodiversity conservation.
TOTAL                             US$43.69 millon
(costs in the logical framework include (GEF total cost: US$15.0 milion)
contingencies and the GEF Grant
contribution of US$5.0 million in 2001
to the Trust Fund administrated by
FUNDESNAP in component 4).
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
By Component:
Project Component I - US$6.59 million
Institutional and Policy Development
(GEF contribution: US$2.79 million)
This component is aimed to strengthen SERNAP's technical and knowledge base by developing planning tools and
policies. It includes the preparation of a Master Plan to orient SERNAP's long-term actions. The Master Plan will
include an analysis of the representativity gaps and a proposal to reset the boundaries of protected areas (PAs),
re-categorize protected areas, final legal declaration of PAs and possible abandon of PAs in the National System of
Protected Areas. The Master Plan will be complemented by a strategic institutional plan including a medium-term
financial strategy. Mechanisms for generating internal resources also will be developed by strengthening the
system used to collect service fees (mainly from tourism) and exploring the possibility of generating income from
the sale of carbon offsets, environmental easements and concessions. The strengthening of SERNAP's technical
and operational capacity is also included in this component and a project coordination unit will be set up to support
all project activities.
A. Master Plan and Studies
Preparing the Master Plan for the National System of Protected Areas: SERNAP long-term Master Plan will
set forth policies, strategies and priority actions to manage the country's protected areas. It will identify ecological
representativity and complementarity needs based on an analysis of representativity gaps.
The proposed Master Plan (MP) will be prepared through a consultative and participatory process to ensure that
they reflect the current social and institutional conditions in Bolivia. Social groups, local and indigenous
communities, scientific and governmental institutions and NGOs will be invited to establish the detailed TORs for
the MP and follow up on its preparation. Major studies financed by the project will support the MP, namely: (i) the
analysis of representativity gaps; (ii) re-categorization, boundary demarcation and eventual abandonment, and final
legal declaration of protected areas; (iii) mechanisms for generation of internal revenues.
The Master Plan will propose protected area management policies which take into consideration the interests of
national, departmental, municipal and private stakeholders. It will determine protection priorities and specify the
relationship between the various units and categories of protected areas. It will also identify the current and
potential threats to protected areas and their buffer zones.
The Plan will give due consideration to the political, strategic and regulatory context in which the protected areas
are to be managed. This includes categories of protected areas serving the needs of specific groups and taking into
account the agricultural, forestry, fishing and other sectors related to the use of resources from protected areas.
Analysis of representativity gaps: The analysis of representativity gaps will determine whether or not the SNAP
is based on relevant biological criteria, landscape diversity and wilderness areas, human pressure on wilderness
areas, habitat representativity within the system and management efficiency.
The analysis will study cartographic models and the distribution patterns of the country's principal vegetation
types, including quality characteristics and conservation status. It will also incorporate risk and efficiency criteria,
including ecoregional and biogeographic parameters in addition to considering archeological, anthropological and
landscape-related characteristics.
The analysis also will identify, evaluate, systematize and generate information about biodiversity. It will assess
biological risk characteristics and determine geographic priorities for conservation to support the selection of new
protected areas.
- 33 -



Studies of re-categorization, boundary demarcation, abandonment and final legal declaration of protected
areas: As many of the protected areas were created with no conservation criteria whatsoever, a re-categorization,
boundary demarcation, abandonment and finalization of PA legal status process must be put in place to rationalize
the National System of Protected Areas.
Re-categorization will be based on current intervention conditions and natural resource utilization pattems since
these may have changed since the areas were created. This is an important step because the category determines
how resource utilization and occupation levels are regulated.
Boundary demarcation will consider the administrative viability of the area as well as the space needed to meet
conservation objectives. This process will determine the expansion of the area or its partial or total abandonment.
Abandonment occurs as a result of the combined process of boundary demarcation and analysis of the critical
conservation areas, which may determine the abandonment of part or all of the protected area.
Final legal declaration of protected areas is achieved by documenting the revised protected area boundaries and
category. Protected area categories will be based on international categories (such as the Biosphere Reserve) which
enables the utilization of the national categorization system in the final legal declaration of the protected areas.
B. Strategic Institutional and Financial Plan
The Strategic Institutional Plan will aim to insert the National Service of Protected Areas within the governmental
structure, both operatively as well as functionally. This will facilitate SERNAP's mission of managing protected
areas based on the strategic analysis of internal organization and external factors influencing SERNAP's
institutional behavior. The Plan will include staff management systems, management monitoring systems,
inter-institutional coordination principles and guidelines to increase coordination with local stakeholders in the
protected areas. Additionally, the Plan will include financial planning focused on setting priorities for activities
and needs based on the institution's projected funding, existing funding and potential fund providers for the
National System of Protected Areas. Strategies to attract and allocate resources will be designed as a result of the
financial planning.
This plan will basically follow the approach adopted by the Institutional Reform Project, i.e. the institutional and
financial sustainability studies will provide a framework for restructuring SERNAP and establishing adequate
legislation to support its functions. The project consultants to be eventually converted into SERNAP staff are being
selected on a merit basis, following Bank standards. The incremental salaries will be paid by the project in its first
two years of execution, and will be progressively taken in charge by the GOB.
C. Mechanisms for the Generation of Internal Revenues
These studies, to be executed by SERNAP Directorate of Planning, will define (i) the potential sources to
increase revenue generation throughout the system and (ii) the best management alternatives for the SNAP
revenues at its various levels. The distribution of revenues throughout the system will focus on
decentralizing the management of PA budgets; taking into consideration the needs of the different PAs
vis-a-vis their capacity to generate own revenues.
Strengthening of the SNAP Financial Collection and Distribution System
In view of SERNAP weak financial structure, this sub-component seeks to reduce the institution's high level of
dependency on external financing by generating funds internally. The aim is to strengthen SERNAP collection
system and increase income from tourist activities in the protected areas. To achieve this goal, tourist management
plans will be developed and staff and local operators will be trained in the provision of tourist services. The
objective of these activities is to improve visiting conditions taking into consideration the occupation capacity of
the protected area and their zoning characteristics, thereby generating internal funds to be used to manage the
areas.
- 34 -



Revenue Generation Mechanisms
Three types of studies will be undertaken in selected protected areas to identify revenue generation mechanisms: (i)
studies to determine the possibility of providing services related to carbon sinks and climate change; (ii) studies to
identify conservation objectives that may be the subject of conservation easements (e.g., watersheds); and (iii)
studies focused on granting concessions in protected areas, mainly for tourism, research, bioprospecting. These
studies will be complemented with regulatory guidelines to orient the appropriate legal framework for the
activities.
D. Institutional Strengthening
SERNAP's institutional strengthening includes specialized technical assistance, training, operational support and
the provision of equipment. Technical assistance will be provided by consultants specializing in: planning,
monitoring, evaluation, financial planning and management, operational programming, cash generation, asset
management, biodiversity monitoring, natural resource management and environmental legal issues. In order to
maintain specialized support to SERNAP, the Government of Bolivia will gradually convert the consultants to
regular staff, utilizing part of the income generated by FUNDESNAP. Priority for conversion will be given to the
field personnel, including PA managers and rangers.
In addition to technical assistance, the project will allocate resources to train SERNAP personnel in priority issues.
Other institutional strengthening activities include setting up offices, installing a computer network and
purchasing a vehicle to carry out monitoring and coordination activities in the protected areas.
E. Project Coordination
This function will be fully integrated into SERNAP structure. SERNAP will nominate a project coordinator under
its National Director operating from its central offices in La Paz. This coordinator will provide overall project
management, and will act as the interface between SERNAP and FUNDESNAP. S/he will be responsible for the
coordination with the SERNAP technical directors for project implementation under a global and integrated
approach. An environmental specialist will provide assistance to the Project coordinator on technical issues. Each
component (except component 4) will be headed by a Technical Leader selected from SERNAP staff and
consultants.
The project coordinator will also be supported by SERNAP administrative services for procurement and financial
management activities. For this purpose, a highly qualified professional will be hired under the Director for
Finances and Administration fully dedicated to manage the SERNAP GEF funds and to deal with the procurement,
financial management and progress monitoring issues related to the project.. A Secretary will also be hired to
support the Project Coordination. An organigram showing the PC and other functions at SERNAP central unit
supported by the Program is presented in Annex 15.
The project coordinator and project assistants will ensure the efficient functioning of the management and financial
systems, procurement procedures and independent and transparent disbursements within the project, according to
Bank procedures. The project coordinator will also serve as advisor to SERNAP's Director.
The project will be launched with a presentation/discussion/dissemination event orientated toward both
decision-makers and the general public. The aim is to produce awareness and promote positive attitudes toward
biodiversity conservation through protected area management. The project coordinator will also be responsible for
organizing annual financial and technical audits and coordinating the preparation of the second phase of the
fifteen-year program in coordination with SERNAP's technical directorates and with the participation of
institutional and social stakeholders.
- 35 -



Project Component 2 - US$21.92 million
Management of Priority Protected Areas
(GEF contribution: US$6.11 million)
This component provides financial and technical assistance to ensure the effective management of all the 22
protected areas covered by the SNAP, of which GEF funds will support 10 priority protected areas. Under
Component 4, FUNDESNAP will also prioritize financing the recurrent costs of these 10 priority protected areas.
Meanwhile, government and parallel financing will focus on the remaining 12 protected areas in the SNAP.
These priority areas were chosen using a decision-making matrix that took into account the following variables:
financing needs, long-term funding potential, planning needs, biodiversity representativity, participatory
management potential, and sustainable use potential. A full description of the criteria utilized, as well as the
decision-making matrix, is included in Annex 18. The inclusion of financing needs in the decision-making
process ensures that overlap between GEF financing and govermment and parallel financing is minimized.
The GEF set of 10 protected areas provides a representative sample of various ecoregions, altitudes and
geomorphologies, management categories, biodiversity characteristics, threats, and social and ethnic
characteristics. A summary description of each of the 10 areas to be supported with GEF funds is included in
Annex 18.
The precise activities to be supported within each area were defined through an in-depth analysis of existing
capacities, threats, and minimum needs to ensure effective management over the next 5 years. In addition, these
activities will strengthen management sustainability through enhanced participation of local communities in
decision-making by the development of local management councils. Annex 18 also summarizes the information in
the project files which supported the choice of activities to be financed within each area. These activities include
strengthening the SNAP's operational capacity at specific protected areas and strengthening local participation in
the SNAP. More detailed information on GEF supported activities is presented below:
A. Strengthening of SNAP's Operational Capacity at Specific Protected Areas
Operational Capacity Strengthening: This sub-component will finance the incremental salary costs of staff at
each of the 10 areas, including, where appropriate, park directors, heads of protection, park guards, administrators,
and administrative assistants (for details, see Annex 18). It will also fund recurrent operational costs over the
five-years of the project. These costs will financed on a declining basis from the GEF grant (85 percent in year
one, 70 percent in years two and three, and 40 percent in years four and five). As GEF financing declines, these
recurrent costs will be covered by disbursements from the FUNDESNAP trust fund and government counterpart
(see component 4).
Infrastructure and Equipment: This sub-component will finance park buildings (campamentos principales and
secundarios), lodges, interpretation centers, vehicles, motorcycles, radios, and signs. These infrastructure and
equipment needs are considered the minimum necessary to ensure effective management and the proper operation
of each area.
Management Plans: Eight protected areas have either draft or final management plans (draft plans are already
under consideration for Ministry approval based on SERNAP recommendations): Noel Kempf, Amboro, Torotoro,
Apolobamba, and Estacion Biologica del Beni have final plans while Kaa Iya del Gran Chaco, Tariquia, and Pilon
Lajas have draft plans. Under this sub-component, the GEF will finance 3 new management plans and the
remaining management plans will be prepared with support from GTZ, CARE, WWF and other donors.
In addition to the activities supported by the GEF in the 10 priority protected areas, government and parallel
financing will cover improved management in the remaining 12 protected areas. Furthermore, programs
supported by government and parallel financing will also cover specific activities within the 10 priority protected
areas supported by the GEF, in particular PA boundary demarcation for selected PAs (e.g. Estaci6n Biol6gica del
Beni and the PAs in the area of influence of the planned Santa Cruz - Puerto Suarez road). Demarcation and land
titling of all the remaining areas will take place in phase II of the program, after all areas have been re-categorized
and zoned.
- 36 -



B. Strengthening of Local Participation in the SNAP
There is substantial experience both intemationally and in Bolivia demonstrating the effectiveness of local
management councils to facilitate the participation of local communities in protected area management. This
direct participation allows protected areas to play important social and economic roles locally, as well as to
increase their long term  acceptance and therefore social sustainability.  Most costs to implement this
sub-component are covered under the operational capacity strengthening and training activities described above,
since activities to engage local communities will be executed via community-awareness and coordination activities
implemented by properly-trained protected area staff. In addition, and as a result of the lessons-learned from prior
experiences in Bolivia, the project will finance the following activities:
1. Management Councils: recurrent operational costs will be supported to ensure the proper functioning of these
councils.
2. Inter-institutional coordination: these funds will support the costs to ensure full coordination with relevant
local institutions.
Project Component 3 - USS 0.57 million
Legal and Regulatory Framework
(GEF contribution: US$0.07 million)
SERNAP will be the executing agency for both sub-components: (a) law on protected areas and (b) development of
cross-sectoral and specific regulations.
Law on Protected Areas
The current regulatory situation goveming the exploration and development of renewable and non-renewable
natural resources has weakened the suitability of the legal framework of protected areas. The legal foundation of
the National System of Protected Areas is made up of the Environmental Law and the General Regulations for
Protected Areas, which complement each other and regulate a series of important issues. Nonetheless, because of
its generality, the Environmental Law does not provide specific rules for protected areas. On the other hand, the
General Regulations for Protected Areas were approved as a "supreme decree" which means that any piece of
legislation of higher authority takes precedence.
As a result, there is an urgent need to address the regulation of protected areas at the highest legislative level. This
will provide the juridical hierarchy needed for the effective protection of the country's biodiversity. The passing of
appropriate laws would also close gaps in legislation, correct current legal overlaps, provide for a consistent and
coordinated treatment of the development of renewable and non-renewable natural resources and promote respect
for the limitations imposed by protected areas.
In this sub-component, a relatively short period of time will be dedicated to the preparation of a draft law on
protected areas. A legal and technical diagnosis will be carried out prior to drafting the law on protected areas in
order to ensure that all relevant objectives are met. The drafting process will be based on the work of a small team
of consultants with the active participation of SERNAP authorities and consultation with civil society and other
stakeholders. The project will also support the presentation of the law to the competent authorities and the
approval of the law by Congress. The project will also provide support as needed for the approval of the
biodiversity law by Congress.
Development of Cross-Sector and Specific Regulations
Identification of gaps and inconsistencies in legislation
In addition to the previous sub-component, all gaps, contradictions and inconsistencies of the legal framework
regulating the development of renewable and non-renewable natural resources will be identified. The process will
include all technical and legal norms, from administrative resolutions to national laws, issued by all governmental
agencies and bodies (including regulation system, ministries, services, prefectures and municipalities).
- 37 -



The SNAP legal sustainability is founded on the consistency of the technical and legal treatment given to resource
development and conservation. The diagnosis described above will help SERNAP obtain information which is
currently unavailable. This information will be systematized to facilitate decision-making to: (i) coordinate with
public and private stakeholders directly or indirectly involved with the SNAP; (ii) regulate technical and legal
issues through supreme decrees, ministerial resolutions or administrative resolutions; and (iii) identify key
stakeholders for training and/or sharing of information.
Review of Cross-Sector legislation
SERNAP will review and provide support to draft amendments, with the assistance of consultant studies, to related
laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may include, among others: the Environmental Law, the
Forestry Law, the Decree of Utilization of Wildlife, the Popular Participation Law, the Decentralization Law, the
Organic Law of Municipalities, the INRA Law, and the Mining Code.
Specific PA regulations
The National System of Protected Areas includes different management categories, ranging from national parks to
natural areas of integrated management. Each of these categories responds to a different zoning system, generally
as a result of the management plan.
Both the category of protected area and the zoning are based on a series of factors, mostly biological, but including
social and cultural aspects as well. The category and the zoning determine, among other things, the possibility of
sustainable resource development which must be permitted once the technical and legal conditions are approved.
There is therefore the need for a legislative framework covering protected area categories and zoning.
Additionally, the SNAP must be provided with specific regulations regarding environmental impact, tourism, and
environmental services.
Project Component 4 - US$9.78 million
Sustainable Financing
(GEF contribution: US$5.17 milion)
Based on previous experiences with GEF-supported endowment funds, SERNAP initiated a process to set up a
private organization that would manage the system's funding in collaboration with the Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Planning and the Ministry of the Presidency. This participatory process brought together more
than 20 representatives from different sectors of Bolivian society (including local non-governmental organizations,
donors and governmental agencies) with the aim of establishing a fund management model for protected areas
through the creation of a private non-profit foundation. The foundation would be responsible for managing SNAP
endowment funds (both permanent and sinking) and ensuring its long-term financial sustainability.
The Foundation for the Development of the National System of Protected Areas (FUNDESNAP) was created to
support SNAP's development by attracting and managing funds destined to the implementation of programs,
projects and activities involving a variety of Bolivian stakeholders. In addition to managing the GEF Trust Fund,
FUNDESNAP will solicit and disburse contributions from donors, and manage funds from income-generating
activities and visiting fees in the PAs.
FUNDESNAP has a Founding Assembly composed of 9 members, and a 7-member Board of Directors representing
these stakeholders. Details on the functions and responsibilities of the Board and Founding Assembly are provided
in Annex 20.
This component will allocate US$5.0 million of GEF funds to establish a non-commercial trust fund to be managed
by FUNDESNAP. Additionally, US$4.61 million from a J.P. Morgan trust fund, currently managed by FONAMA,
will also be transferred to the FUNDESNAP trust fund. In addition to endowment capital, this component will also
provide financial support ($0.17 million) to cover the operating expenses of FUNDESNAP for the first year of
operation of the trust fund so that these expenditures do not need to be financed out of the endowment capital.
Specific component activities include:
1. consolidating the trust fund's legal, financial and operating structure;
- 38 -



2. providing incremental staff, management and office support to enable FUNDESNAP to assume its additional
financial, administrative and technical oversight responsibilities for the operation of the TF account; and
3. operating the TF under rules established in an Annex to the Operational Manual of FUNDESNAP, satisfactory
to the Bank.
The Board of Directors of FUNDESNAP will be responsible for component oversight. Only proceeds from
investment income would be used to fund PA conservation and FUJNDESNAP administrative programs.
FUNDESNAP will focus on funding the recurrent costs of protected areas based on the annual operational plans
submitted by SERNAP. An internal monitoring and evaluation system will be put in place, including technical
and financial audits to ensure transparent resource management.
Further details on the establishment of FUNDESNAP, its capitalization, strategic and operational approaches are
available in Annex 20. FUNDESNAP bylaws and regulations, its operational manual, the governing rules for the
GEF Trust Fund and the operational agreement between SERNAP and FUNDESNAP are all available in project
files.
Project Component 5 - US$4.83 million
Biodiversity Management and Monitoring in Protected Areas
(GEF contribution: US$0.86 miflion)
This component will develop models for managing resources and a system for monitoring conservation efficiency
for the protected areas. It will take into account on-going activities carried out by other institutions whether
directly or through local organizations. SERNAP will work closely with those organizations carrying out activities
directly related with this component, in order to broaden the information available and design a program that is
consistent with country conditions. The participation of social actors will be crucial to this component as the
program must be accepted socially to ensure its implementation. SERNAP will assume the role of facilitator with
regard to resource management issues as some projects may be implemented by other institutions working in the
selected protected area.
Development of models for biodiversity and natural resources management
Sustainable biodiversity and natural resources management models for the PAs and their buffer zones will be
designed based on pilot experiences with users, govermunent and private institutions and other social actors in the
selected protected areas. The work will be coordinated closely.with the SERNAP/GTZ MAPZA project currently
implemented in three pilot protected areas so that experiences may be validated and shared. The MAPZA project
has focused on buffer zones while the GEF funding will allow for the development of models for the protected
areas themselves. Once models have been developed, they will be piloted through natural resource management
subprojects.
The component will begin with the systematization of experiences. Studies, surveys and other tools will be utilized
to support the development of the biodiversity and natural resources management models. Protected areas will also
be selected for the pilot phase, according to eligibility criteria defined below.
Once relevant approaches are identified, natural resource management subprojects will be piloted in the selected
protected areas. Eligibility criteria for the target communities to be considered include: (i) demonstrated interest
and willingness of communities to participate in the pilot initiatives; and (ii) value of the use of the biodiversity
and natural resources. Key criteria to be considered in evaluating the success of these models will include: (i) the
capacity to adapt to the PA communities' livelihood practices, natural resource use patterns, cultural values and
other socio-economic conditions; (ii) consistency with PA management goals; (iii) responsiveness to communities'
priorities; and (iv) ease of replication. Natural resource management subprojects will be financed by both the
project and national and intemational donors.
- 39 -



The biodiversity conservation monitoring and evaluation system
This sub-component will develop a system for monitoring the conservation of biodiversity within the PAs to be
operated by SERNAP's monitoring and evaluation unit. The model will be applied in selected protected areas;
lessons from these pilot experiences will provide the necessary feedback for expanding the monitoring system to
the whole SNAP. The monitoring will not only include biological variables, but socio-economic ones as well. The
system will be designed to evaluate the efficiency of the conservation programs in place and will provide SERNAP
with inputs for planning and decision-making. The Nature Conservancy Scorecard will be used as a point of
departure, and modified according to the project needs (see Annex 19).
The information system developed during the implementation of the GEF Pilot Phase project will provide input for
the monitoring system. However, the aim of this component is to design a monitoring system based on the
day-to-day practices of PA staff. A system of this type can be applied at low cost and implemented as part of the
staffs daily duties. The possibility of generating information for a small and standardized set of indicators that
would provide monitoring for decision making on biodiversity conservation will be explored.
-40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
A. Policy and Institutional Development                          3.21           3.35           6.56
B. Management of Protected Areas                                16.75           5.07          21.82
C. Legal and Regulatory Framework                                0.30           0.27           0.57
D. Strengthening FUNDESNAP                                       0.00           9.78           9.78
E. Biodiversity Monitoring and Natural Resource Management       2.42           2.41           4.83
Total Baseline Cost                                             22.68          20.88          43.56
Physical Contingencies                                          0.09           0.01           0.10
Price Contingencies                                            -0.17           0.20           0.03
Total Project Costs                 22.60          21.09          43.69
Total Financing Required                  22.60          21.09          43.69
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 43.69 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 34.33% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-41-



Annex 4
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
Overview of the Incremental Cost Analysis
The projecfs general objective is to contribute to the conservation of Bolivia's highly diverse biota by generating a
long-term development strategy and establishing a reliable basis for sustainability of its protected area system. The
GEF alternative would achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost of US$15.0 million.
Context and Broad Development Goals
As a response to the serious shortcomings of the protected area system, in 1998 Congress created the National
Service of Protected Areas (SERNAP), an autonomous govemment agency in charge of the management of SNAP.
SERNAP is able to generate its own resources from a variety of sources, including fees for services and fines.
SERNAP can also directly access funds from the international donor community. Under law, SERNAP is designed
as a small, efficient entity in charge of developing and enforcing policies related to the management of the SNAP,
but has the capacity to delegate management to local governments, municipalities, and NGOs.
Baseline
Due to the serious administrative deficiencies and loss of credibility of FONAMA, the GOB has decided to
transform this entity into an intermediary between demand and supply of external cooperation. The accounts
administered by FONAMA are being gradually transferred to different individual managers, in close coordination
with donors. In the case of the protected area system, and as a result of the preparation of this project, the
government has agreed to transfer the Trust Fund managed by FONAMA to a new, private and independent
non-profit institution (Fundaci6n para el Desarrollo del Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas de Bolivia-
FUNDESNAP). FUNDESNAP was designed by a council representing diverse sectors of the Bolivian society and
its operating principles will be based on the key lessons learned through the GEF Evaluation of Trust Funds Study.
FUNDESNAP will manage a specific Trust Fund with the objective of financing the recurrent costs of SNAP.
Under the Baseline scenario, Bolivia will be able to manage a sub-set of its protected areas, (mostly those that
received support through the GEF Pilot Phase Project) as well as to maintain an adequate level of central support to
the system. Total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$28.69 million.
Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in:
1. Development of basic planning tools for management of the system and some short-term protection of
biodiversity of global significance.
2. Some level of community work and limited levels of revenue generation from protected areas.
3. Raising some funds from donors to finance a portion of recurrent costs.
4. Development of M&E systems at the project level.
Global Environmental Objectives
Bolivia is one of the most important countries in Latin America for the conservation of biodiversity, not only
because the ecosystems in many areas are still pristine, but because it contains about 18,000 species of plants,
2,500 known species of vertebrates, and 1,274 species of birds (very high for a landlocked country). It has a high
index of endemism. These numbers are likely to increase because Bolivia is one of the least surveyed countries in
the Neotropics. Moreover, many of the forest and natural grassland habitats which have been greatly reduced in
neighboring countries (particularly Brazil and Argentina) are still relatively extensive. The importance of Bolivian
biodiversity is not derived only from the absolute number of species present in the country. Three out of five
Biogeographic Domains (Amazonian, Andean-Patagonian, and Chacoan) described for South America are present
in Bolivia, and within these, seven provinces. The provinces cover a variety of ecological conditions that range
from those of a tropical humid forest to those found in high mountain deserts. Large areas of wetlands in the two
main Neotropical basins, Amazonian and Paraguay-Parana, and the largest tropical deciduous remaining forests in
the world, in the Gran Chaco, are part of this extent.
- 42 -



Due to its geographic location and rugged mountainous terrain, a large area of Bolivia is still in a nearly pristine
condition. Forty-eight percent of the country is still covered by forests. Bolivia is also home to over 3 million
indigenous people whose native communities maintain one of the largest reservoirs of genetic resources in the
world for Potato, Peanut, Squashes, Peppers, Beans, Quinine, Cacao, Papaw, and Pineapple. Their importance for
agriculture and medicine is closely linked to the traditional knowledge accumulated over the centuries by these
cultures. Bolivia is also one of the world's major centers for domestication of plants.
A consolidated and sustainable protected area system will help conserve a large proportion of this biodiversity and
to maintain ecological and evolutionary processes of unique global importance.
GEF Alternative
Under the GEF Alternative scenario, Bolivia will be able to set the basis for sustainability of its SNAP based on
long-term planning and social and financial tools. This will result in an organic system of protected areas with
presence of SERNAP and with mechanisms in place to achieve effective management. Specific outcomes will
include:
1. Integrated approach for SNAP that responds to social, economic, and political realities; clear long-term "State
Vision" for the SNAP;
2. Ecoregional representation within the SNAP, and greater coverage of globally significant areas.
3. Establishment of financial mechanisms that will stabilize the fiscal burden on the state;
4. Increased community participation, system ownership, and poverty alleviation in areas in and around protected
areas; Established basis for sustainability at all levels (social, financial, and ecological);
5. Definition of long-term management needs for the entire system and identification of funding gaps; and (vii)
Development of biological monitoring and evaluation systems.
Total expenditures under the GEF Alternative scenario are estimated at US$43.69 million.
Incremental Costs
The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$28.69 million) and the cost of the GEF Alternative
(US$43.69 million) is estimated at US$15.0 million. This represents the incremental cost for achieving global
environmental benefits and is the amount requested from the GEF.
-43 -



Incremental Cost Matrix for GEF Funding (USS million)
Component           Cost Category   Cost  Domestic Benefit                   Global Benefit
1. Policy and      Baseline        3.80  Basic planning tools for management of  Some short-term protection of
Institutional                          the system                         biodiversity of global importance
Development
GEF Alternative  6.59  Integrated approach for SNAP that  Ecoregional represen-tation within
responds to social, economic, and  the SNAP and clear long-term
political realities               "State Vision" for the SNAP
Incremental     2.79
2. Management of    Baseline       15.81  Management needs only defined and    Short-term protection of
Protected Areas                        financed for specific protected areas.    biodiversity of global importance
GEF Altemative  21.92 Definition of long-term management    Greater financial coverage of
needs for the entire system,      globally significant areas
identifi-ca-tion of funding gaps, and
greater community involvement in
management.
Incremental     6.11
3. Legaland        Baseline         0.50
Regulatory
Framework
GEF Altemative  0.57  Clarification of the legal and regulatory  Basis for sustainable management
framework.                        of protected areas established.
Incremental     0.07
4. Strengthening   Baseline         4.61  Some level of community work,      Short-term protection of
Financial Capacity                      minimum level of revenue generation    biodiversity of global importance
GEF Alternative  9.78  Establishment of financial mechan-isms  Established basis for sustainability
that will stabilize the fiscal burden;  at all three levels (social,
increased community participa-tion,    financial, and ecological)
system owner-ship and poverty
alleviation.
Incremental     5.17
5. Natural Resource  Baseline       3.97  Development of monitoring and
Management and                          evaluation systems
Biodiversity
Monitoring
GEF Alternative  4.83  Development of natural resource  Improved natural resource
management and biological monitoring   management and biodiversity.
systems                           monitoring
Incremental     0.86
TOTAL               Baseline        28.69 Management of a sub-set of protected    Short-term protection of
areas, and mainten-ance of adequate    biodiversity of global imnportance
level of support to the central unit
GEF Alternative  43.69 Setting the basis for sustainability based An organic system of protected
on long-term plan-ning and social and   areas with presence of SNAP and
financial tools                   with mechanisms in place to
achieve effec-tive management
Incremental     15.00
- 44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
Years Ending
December 31
lYear I1       Year 2   Year 3      Year 4  Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          14.7        5.4        5.4        3.5       3.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             2.1        2.3       2.4        2.4        2.5       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         16.8        7.7        7.8        5.9       5.5        0.0       0.0
.Total Financing            16.8        7.7        7.8        5.9       5.5        .        
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   8.2        1.9       2.1        1.5        1.3      0.0        0.0
Government                 0.7        0.8       0.9        1.0        1.1       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User FeestBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0        0.4       0.4        0.7        0.7       0.0       0.0
Others                     4.6        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     2.1        3.1       3.1        1.7        1.4       0.0       0.0
Others                     1.2        1.2        1.0       1.0        1.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    16.9        7.5        7.6        6.0       5.6       0.0        0.0
Y Year1 I   Year 2      Year 3    Year 4     Year5      Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           2.1        2.1        2.1       2.1        2.1       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs         2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                1.1        1.1        1.1        1.1       1.1       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0       1.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     2.1       2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1       0.0        0.0
- 45 -



Main assumptions:
During the operational period (2006 to 2010), financing will be required to cover two sets of expenses: (1) the
recurring costs of managing the 10 priority protected areas and (2) the recurring costs of SERNAP. The annual
recurrent costs for managing the I0 priority protected areas covered by the GEF is estimated at US$1,364,395 (this
is the average over the five years of the project; see Annex 18 for details). The average, annual recurrent costs for
SERNAP are estimated at US$713,549.
- 46 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
Procurement
A. Procurement Arrangements
All procurement of goods under the Project would be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines,
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultants would be employed in accordance with the "
Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrower, " dated January 1997 and
revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
Procurement methods: The procurement methods to be used, and the estimated amounts for each method,
are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for each method are specified in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project would include construction of a total of thirty eight camps (5 principal
camps, 28 secondary camps, and 5 rustic camps) and six interpretation centers totaling US$1.05 million.
These will be small works contracts for construction of camps and interpretation centers scattered across
the parks, estimated to cost less than US$0.2 million each. These works will be procured on the basis of at
least three quotations received in response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include vehicles, boats, radio equipment, computer equipment,
electricity generator and water pumps, and office equipment totaling US$0.93 million. To the extent
possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than US$200,000 and
procured following Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to
an aggregate amount of US$750,000 may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be
grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$200,000 may be procured using shopping (National or Intemational) procedures
based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise: park
management, institutional strengthening, capacity building, planning and programming, biodiversity
conservation, legal and social, financial management. The services to financed by the grant are estimated
to cost US$3.20 million and would be procured using Bank Standard Request for Proposals.
Firms: All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS and QBS except for small and simple
contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less that would be procured using LCS, up to an
aggregate amount of US$870,000 equivalent
- 47 -



Individuals: Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by
comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.33 million equivalent.
Prior review thresholds
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the project
implementing unit and are summarized in Table B.
B) Assessment of the aeencv's caRacitV to implement Drocurement
Procurement activities will be carried out mostly by SERNAP; under this project, FUNDESNAP procurement is
limited to the selection of a few consultants and key staff personnel. The procurement procedures for
FUNDESNAP have been incorporated in its Operational Manual.
The SERNAP Operations Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding
Documents to be used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and goods procured on
the basis of three quotations or shopping.
An assessment of the capacity of SERNAP to implement procurement actions for the project has been carried out
in July 1999 and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor (RPA) on November 03, 2000. The
assessment reviewed the organizational structure of SERNAP and the interaction between the project's
procurement officer, the project manager and the financial officer.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) the possibility of changes in the procurement capacity by the
time the project starts; and (ii) no experience on Bank procurement procedures. SERNAP has already presented a
detailed plan to address these risks which involves preparing a training program for less experienced staff.
Monitoring of procurement actions and evaluation of contracts awarded under this project are key activities
envisaged in the action plan, with a specific allocation of human and financial resources. Document filing is
acceptable and complies with the Bank's requirements.
The overall project risk for procurement is average.
Although the overall risk assessment resulting from SERNAP capacity assessment was average the agency has in
place a satisfactory system for filing, monitoring, and reporting procurement actions. Consequently SERNAP is
eliaible for PMR-based disbursements on procurement reporting grounds.
C) Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which provided the
basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (see Tables A and Al). This plan was
approved by the RPA and is in the project files. At the beginning of each calendar year, the GEF grant
recipient through SERNAP will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the
coming year.
D) Freguency of Procurement Suuervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment of
SERNAP has recommended one full supervision mission to visit the field to carry out post review of
procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) the post-review field analysis should
cover a sample of not less than I in 10 contracts signed.
-48 -



Disbursement
A. Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The proposed GEF grants (one to SERNAP and one to FUNDESNAP) would be disbursed over the
project's implementation period, from January 1, 2001 to December 13, 2005, plus six months to disburse
on outstanding commitments. Disbursements would be made against the following categories:
GEF Grant to SERNAP
I . Works: consisting of 38 camps and 6 interpretation centers, financed 85% by the Grant.
2. Goods: consisting essentially of vehicles, boats, radio equipment, computer equipment, electricity generator,
water pumps, and office equipment; financed 85% by the Grant.
3. Services: consisting of consultant services and training, land demarcation and related activities, financed
100% by the Grant.
4. Incremental Recurrent Costs: comprises the operating expenses of the Project unit in SERNAP as well as the
cost of the extemal audit of SERNAP and FUNDESNAP. For the SERNAP Central Unit, these costs will be
financed 85% by the Grant. For the PAs, financing will be on a declining basis: 85% in year I of the project;
70% in years 2 and 3; and 40% in years 4 and
5. NRM Sub-projects: comprises small, community based natural resources management projects to be executed
by eligible communities to pilot the models to be developed under Component E for biodiversity and NRM
within the protected areas.
GEF Grant to FUNDESNAP
I . Trust Fund Endowment: comprises a $5,000,000 contribution to the FUNDESNAP Trust Fund, financed 100%
by the Grant;
2. Goods: consisting essentially of computer and office equipment; financed 90%/o by the Grant.
3. Services: comprises US$170,000 for technical assistance, financed 100% by the Grant.
4. Incremental Recurrent Costs: comprises operating expenses of FUNDESNAP during the first year of the
project; financed 85% by the project.
B. Special Account
For the purposes of carrying out all project components but component 4, a Special Account will be opened in the
name of SERNAP and maintained in US Dollars at the Banco Central de Bolivia on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. Deposits into the Special Account and the replenishments will be made through traditional
disbursement procedures using SOEs until SERNAP gets its LACI certification. Thresholds will follow the
procurement prior review thresholds. Afterwards, disbursements will be made on the basis of Applications for
Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied by the Project Management Report (PMR) for the corresponding period,
as described in the Project Financial Management Manual. The PMRs will indicate the amount of funds required
to finance project operations for the following six months. All PMRs, except the report for the initial period
which will contain only the report forecasts (reports l-f-l and 1-f-2) will show: (i) actual sources and applications
of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the period, and projected sources and applications of funds for
the project for the following six-months; (ii) list separately expenditures financed out of the credit during the
period covered by the report and expenditures proposed to be financed during the following six-month; (iii)
describe physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered, and explain
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and (iv) set forth the status of
procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed from the credit, for the period covered.
For Component 4, a Special Account will be opened in the name of FUNDESNAP and maintained in US Dollars
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Deposits into the Special Account and its
replenishments will be made on the basis of traditional Bank disbursement procedures using SOEs. The capital
- 49 -



contribution of US$5.0 million to FUNDESNAP will be paid in lump sum directly to the FUNDESNAP Trust Fund
Account once the conditions for release have been met. This capital contribution is available for FUNDESNAP's
use as investment resources to generate revenue for contribution to the project, under the supervision of an Asset
Manager, acceptable to the Bank and operating under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
C. AccountinQ and Financial Revorting
The Financial Management Specialist for Bolivia conducted an assessment of the accounting, controls over
disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level of administrative staff. It was
determined that the SERNAP has in place accounting and internal control systems compliant with the
requirements of the Bank expressed in OP 10.02 and that provide adequate reporting of the financial
position of the entity as well as of all financial transactions of the project including those transactions
involving the use of Bank funds; and provide sufficient financial infonnation for managing and monitoring
project activities. Similarly it was determined that the systems provide the historical cost accumulation by
loan category and component and support the production of timely PMRs required for PMR based
disbursements. Accordingly a certificate was issued by the Financial Management Specialist for SERNAP
as qualified to use PMR based disbursements.
FUNDESNAP will report periodically on the performance and use of the capital contribution made by GEF under
the project and will follow record keeping and control procedures that respond to the OP 10.02 requirements.
D. Audit
SERNAP and FUNDESNAP will both be audited annually subject to intemational auditing IFAC standards
by an independent external firm of public accountants, satisfactory to IDA and in accordance to termns
presented in The Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World
Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean Region published May 1999. Certified copies of the audit
reports will be presented to the Bank no later than four months after the close of the previous fiscal year.
- 50 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00            0.00           1.05           0.00          1.05
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.05)         (0.00)        (1.05)
2. Goods                            0.17            0.65           0.11           0.00          0.93
(0.15)         (0.59)         (0.10)         (0.00)        (0.84)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           3.20          16.73          19.93
(0.00)         (0.00)         (3.20)         (0.00)        (3.20)
4. FUNDESNAP                        0.00            0.00           9.61           0.00          9.61
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)         (0.00)        (5.00)
5. Natural Resource                 0.00            0.00           0.43           0.00          0.43
Management Subprojects              (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.43)         (0.00)        (0.43)
6. Recurrent Costs                  0.00            0.00           7.62           4.12          11.74
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.48)         (0.00)        (4.48)
Total                            0.17            0.65          22.02          20.85         43.69
(0.15)         (0.59)        (14.26)         (0.00)        (15.00)
iFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
NOTES:
- Procurement of works will be through "three quotations": small works procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required
work and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
- Procurement of equipment will be through "shopping" (national or international).
- Contracts for consultant services will be awarded to firms using Quality-and Cost-Based selection (QCBS),
QBS and Least Cost selection (up to an aggregate amount of US$870,000) and to individual consultants in
accordance with paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines (up to an aggregate amount of US$2.33
million). Details provided in Table A-I.
- Non-Bank Financing (NBF) for consultant services is provided by parallel financing by Netherlands and
Germany.
- Procurement for FUNDESNAP will be according to established local private sector or commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank, as specified in FUNDESNAP Operational Manual.
- 51 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.23      0.46     0.00      0.06      0.00      0.12      8.36      9.23
(0.23)    (0.46)    (0.00)    (0.06)    (0.00)    (0.12)    (0.00)    (0.87)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.33      8.37     10.70
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.33)    (0.00)    (2.33)
Total   0.23     0.46      0.00      0.06      0.00      2.45     16.73     19.93
(0.23)    (0.46)    (0.00)    (0.06)    (0.00)    (2.45)    (0.00)    (3.20)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 52 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Workes                       > 250                    NCB               Prior review of each
contract estimated to cost
$500,000 or more
< 250              Three Quotations/    Prior review: twice-yearly
Procurement of Small    review of contracting
Works                  program.
Simplified post review:
random sample of
contracting documents.
2. Goods                        > 200                    ICB            Prior review: each contract
Prior review: each contract
-> 50 <= 200                NCB            estimated to cost $100,000
or more.
Prior review: twice-yearly
< 50                  Shopping            review of contracting
program. Program to
specify which contracts to
be reviewed. Simplified
post review: random sample
of contracting documents.
3. Services
Flrms                         > 50                 QCBS, QBS           Prior review: All TORs,
short lists (including full
review of technical and
combined evaluations) of
each contract estimated to
cost $100,000 or more.
< 50              QCBS, LCS, QBS        Prior review: twice-yearly
review of contracting
program under agreed
TORs.
Post Review: random
sample review of contracts
estimated to cost less than
$100,000.
-53 -



Individuals                   >35            See Section V of Guidelines    Prior review: TOR,
contract, CV for each
contract estimated to cost
$35,000 or more.
See Section V of Guidelines
<35                                     Prior review: twice-yearly
review of contracting
program under agreed
standard TORs. Post
review: random sample of
contracting documents.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$5.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
reviewing a sample of 1 in 10 contracts signed.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 54 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
GEF GRANT TO SERNAP                       0.00
1. Works                                  0.94                          85
2. Goods                                  0.75                          85
3. Consultants and Training               2.73                         100
4. NRM Subprojects                        0.39                          100
5. PA Recurrent Costs                     3.79                     85,70,70,40,40
6. Central Unit Recurrent Costs           0.25                          85
7. Unallocated                            0.98                         N/A
GEF GRANT TO FUNDESNAP                    0.00
1. FUNDESNAP                              5.00                         100
2. Consultants and Training               0.10                          100
3. Goods                                  0.02                          85
4. Recurrent Costs                        0.05                       85,0,0,0,0
Total Project Costs                       15.00
Total                                     15.00
- 55 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       18                            26
First Bank mission (identification)              06/15/98                      06/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                      10/21/99                      03/01/2000
Negotiations                                     01/14/2000                    11/06/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/01/2000                    01/15/2001
Prepared by:
Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas (SERNAP), Fundacion para el Desarollo del Sistema Nactional de
Areas Protegidas (FUNDESNAP), and Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning.
Preparation assistance:
GEF Block B grant of US$300,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Elizabeth Monosowski               Task Manager
Jeffrey Muller                    Natural Resource Economist
Gonzalo Castro                     Biodiversity Specialist
Tina Kimes                         Global Environment Coordinator, LAC
Silvia Charpentier                Trust Fund Expert
Kathy Mikitin                     GEF (Trust Fund Expert)
David Varela                      Legal Specialist
Alberto Ninio                      Legal Specialist
Maximo Liberman                    Environmental Specialist
Richard M. Huber                   Environmental Specialist
Paul Sisk                          Financial Management System
Irani Escolano                    Procurement Specialist
Juan Martinez                      Social Specialist
Elma Rossel                        Executive assistant
Karim Burneo                       Task Team Assistant
- 56 -



Bolivian counterparts who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Position/Specialty
Ronald MacLean                       Ministro de Desarollo Sostenible y Planificacion
Neisa Roca                           Viceministro de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo Forestal
Gabriel Baracatt                     Director del Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas
Roberto Jordan Mealla                Director Executivo de FUNDESNAP
Mario Baudouin                       Director de la Direcci6n General de Biodiversidad, MDSP
Fernando Mustafa                     Ministerio de la Presidencia
Luis Pab6n                           Director de Planificaci6n del SERNAP
Carola Hurtado                       Directora Juridica del SERNAP
Victor Hugo Inchausty                Director de Coordinaci6n, Supervisi6n y Evaluaci6n del SERNAP
Heiver Andrade                       Director Administrativo del SERNAP
Sergio Eguino                        Jefe de la Unidad de Proyecto del SERNAP
Freddy Campos                        Asistente del Proyecto
Guillermo Rioja Ballivian            Antropologo Social
Jose Antonio Peres Arenas            Participacion Social
Huascar J. Cajias de la Vega         Participacion Social
Oscar F. Alvarez Canaviri             Participacion Social
Jose Argandofia                       T&nico del SERNAP
Rodrigo Vargas                       Tecnico del SERNAP
Sonia Canmarata                      Tecnico del SERNAP
Graziela Sapiencia                   Consultora Juridica
Jairo Escobar                        Unidad de Analisis de Politicas Econ6micas
Boris Fernandez
Jorge Mariaca
Heman Torres                         International Protected Areas Specialist
- 57 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Implementation Plan
* SERNAP Project Operations Manual (Manual de Operaciones)
* FUNDESNAP Project Operations Manual
* SERNAP Procurement Plan
*   FUNDESNAP Trust Fund Investment Plan
* Terns of Reference for the Project Coordination Function
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Social Assessment
* Sustainable Development with Identity Plans for Four Protected Areas
* Public Participation Process and Matrix (consultations' report)
* Institutional Analysis
v Non Governmental Organizations and Their Relation to SNAP
*   Review of the Legal Framework
* Proposed Structure of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements
C. Other
e Summary of Funding of Individual Protected Areas, 1990-98
* Status and Description of Individual Protected Areas in Bolivia
3 Projection of Financial Needs of Individual Protected Areas
* Sustainable Use of Genetic Resources
3 Focal Point Letter
e TNC Scorecard of Protected Area Functionality
*   WWF draft Methodology for Assessing the Management Effectiveness of Protected Areas
* Human Settlements within Protected Areas of the SNAP
e Invitation letter for FUNDESNAP Asset Manager Selection
* Design and Establishment of "Fundaci6n para el Desarrollo del Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas"
(FUNDESNAP).
* Trust Fund Projection and Time Schedule for the Trust Fund Establishment
* Coordination Protocol between Donors for SERNAP Activities
* Objectives, Policies, Results, Action Plan and Financing of Donors in financing the SNAP
* Policy Note for Involuntary Resettlement
*Including electronic files
- 58 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P055230        1999 Bolivia                   ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY                                0.00      88.00       0.00      87.00     22.88       0.00
P055974       1998 Bolima                     BO EL NINO EMERGENCY                                0.00      25.00       0.00       7.11       5.84      1.79
P006204       1998 Bolivia                    EDUCATION QUALTY                                    0.00      75.00       0.00      54.72      18.15      0.00
P006181       1995 Bolivia                    EDUCATION REFORM                                    0.00      40.00       0.00      14.43       9.83      5.93
P006186       1996 Bolvia                     ENV.IND.& MIMNG                                     0.00      11.00       0.00       7.45       6.20      0.79
P040110       1998 Bolivia                    FINDECEN&ACCT                                       0.00      15.00       0.00       6.05      -0.10      0.00
P060392       1999 Bonvia                     HEALTH REFORM                                       0.00      25.00       0.00      17.67       4.44      0.00
P065902       2000 BoNva                      HYDROCARBON SECTOR SOCIAL & ENVIRM.(UL)             0.00       4.80       0.00       4.93       0.00      0.00
P062790       1999 Bolvia                     INST REF (OLD CIV S)                                0.00      32.00       0.00      28.70       3.59      0.00
P006196       1993 Bolivia                    INTEGRATED CHILD DEV                                0.00      50.70      20.00      12.84      34.01     13.26
P006197       1995 Bolivia                    LAND ADMINISTRATION                                 0.00      20.40       0.00       1.97       0.00      0.00
P040085       1998 Bolivia                    PARTICIP RURAL INV.                                 0.00      82.80       0.00     43.57       -0.56      0.00
P006180       1992 Bolivia                    RD MAINT                                           0o00       800         0.00       6,33       4.51      4.60
P057030       1999 Bolivia                    REG REFORM ADJ CREDI                                0.00      41.78       0.00      19.53      17.70      0.00
P057396       1998 Bolivia                    REGULATORY REFORM & PRIVATIZATION (TA)              0.00      20.00       0.00      15.35       3.34      0.00
P006206       1996 BoiMa                      RURAL WTR & SANIT                                   0.00      20.00       0.00       3.88       3.19      5.37
Total:        0.00     611.48        20.00      331.33    133.02     31.74
-59 -



BOLIVIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1976/88/90/91/95/98  BISA                         0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00
1991               Bennejo                        0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/92/94/96/00   COMSUR                        10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Caja Los Andes                 1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991               Central Aguirre                0.28    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.35    0.00    0.00
1999               Electropaz                    25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               GENEX                          0.08    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.08    0.00    0.54    0.00
1999               Illimani                      15.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Inti Raymi                     0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1996               Mercantil-BOL                  8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
0/89               Minera                         0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00
1996               Telecel Bolivia                8.52    0.00    4.44   14.82    5.19    0.00    4.44   10.37
Total Portfolio:        69.25     3.07    9.98    14.82    30.92    1.21     9.98    10.37
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001              Banco Ganadero                  5000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      5000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
- 60 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY asnd SOCIAL                                           America   middle-            _     _        _       _  _
Soivta   & Carlb.  Income        Development diamond
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                         8.t       509      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    1,000      3,840     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS bdtions)                         8.1      1,955     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-SS
Population (%)                                          2,3        1.6       1.        N             /
Labor force%)                                           2 8        265       1.2      GNP                              Gross
per                        _a primary
Most re@ent estimate (olt year gyvtabte, 1S03-99)                                    capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of popialaon below national poverty line)     67
Urban population (% of total population)                 62         75        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         62         70        69
Infant mortd"ty (per 1,000 live births)                  60        31         33
Chld malnutribon (V of chDdren under 5)                   8          a        15                Access to safe water
Access to Improved water source (% of popiubtion)        80         75        86
tliteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                       15         12        16
Gros primary enrollment (V ofsahool-age population)      91        113       114        -    oivia
Mate                                                   95                  114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 87                  1168
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979      989       1901      199S
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billIons)                             2.7      4.7        8.5       8.3
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                 17?      1t.6       23.1       19.8                     Trade
Expors of goods and serviceslGDP              29,3     22.5       20.0      17.4
Gross domestic savings/GOP
Gross naltioal savinsOP                          ..     7.        11        12.3
Current account balance/GOP                  -14.9     -4.8       -7.9      -6,7      Domestic                     Ivte
Interest payments/GDP                          4.8      2.0        1.7       2,0                       j-          Investment
Totat deOt/GDP                                95,8     87.6       71.5      741       Savings
Total debt service/exports                    33,4     31.8       30.1      31.8 
Present value of debttGUP                        .                57.9
Present value of debt/exports                                    317.1
Indebtedness
1979489  19S-99      1908       11999  1t9S93
(avera" annual growth)
GOP                                  -0.9      4.2      5.5        0.6       5.4               Bovia
GNP per csptiti                     -2.3       1.8      4.1       -2.2       3.1     1         Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         0.3      5.4      6.6       -9.7       7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP) 4
Agriculture                                                       18.9      18.4
Industry                                         .        ..      18.7      18.1      20s-
Manufacturing                                                    14.8      14.6           4                  e_
Services                                                          62.4      63.5 5'
Private consumption                           74.8     77.1       75.1      76.2    -20
General government consumption                15.1     11.9       14.1      14.6               -GDI          -'GDP
Imports of goods and services                 37.1     23.2       32.4      27.1
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growfth)
Agriculture                                                                          20 - 
Industry                                                                             10- - .  ..
Manufacturing                                          4.0       2.6        3.3
Services                                        ..        .          .         ..
Private consumption                            2.9      3.6        5.5       1.9   _-t9o9    9 
General government consumption                -3.8      3.4        3.5       2.6
Gross domestic investment                     -2.0     10.0       24.4     -16.2   -20
Imports of goods and services                  1.8      6.6       18.5     -15.7                   Exports    -Imports
Gross national product                        -0.3      4.3        6.6       0.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 61-



Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          15
Consumer pnces                                                                                   .6416.6  4.4  3.1  o
Implicit GDP deflator                         19.3     13.2        7.0      2.8
Govemment ffnance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                 ..    21.2        23.9     24.6             94   9r    96   9Z    98    9
Current budget balance                           ..      ..        1.6       2.0                  GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -5.7        -4.0     -4.3
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                              1979      1989      1998      1999       Export and im,port levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              ..     723      1,105     1,051    2000-
Tin                                           ..      129         66        69
Zinc                                           ..     214        159       154     1,500-
Manufactures                                   ..       ..       195      220
Total imports (cif)                              *      862      1,983     1,755     1,000  *
Food                                          ..
Fuel and energy                               ..
Capital goods                                  .        .
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      ..        90        84            93   94  ss  96  97  se  99
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..      ..        79         ..                  * Exports     * imports
Terrns oftrade (1995=100)                       ,.       ..        114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                     865      895       1,356     1,311     0
Imports ofgoodsand services                  1,129    1,026      2,201    1,989
Resource balance                              -264     -131      -844      -678
Net inoome                                    -184     -249       -160     -205
Net current transfers                          51  156  330  323   " " III
Current account balance                       -397     -225       -675     -559
Financing items (net)                         356        85       803       602
Changes in net reserves                        41       140       -128      -42    o9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..    361        1,185     1,115
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)           3.OOE-5      2.7        5.5       5.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         2,556    4,132      6,090    6,170
IBRD                                        105       199        26        13                       A; 13
IDA                                          62      325       1,045    1,098
G0:1,261              B ,6
Total debt service                            292       292       468       430
IBRD                                         10       37         16        12                                      C:24
IDA                                           1         3        13        17C.4
Composition of net resource flows                                                       F: 680
Official grants                              51       178       232
Official creditors                          114      242        102       178
Private creditors                           109       -18       -12       -24
Foreign direct investment                    35       -24       872          ,            -1 0791,r07
Portfolio equity                              0         0                                E. ..07,
World Bank program
Commitments                                  20       101       228       145      A - IBRD                    E - silatera
Disbursements                                36       79         88        82      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          2       20         19        26      C-IMF                       G- Short-term
Net flows                                    34       59         69        56
Interest payments                             9       20         10        10
Net transfers                                25       39         60        46
Development Economics                                                                                                   916/00
- 62 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Government and Paralel Financing
Introduction
GEF financing for the project is complemented by a variety of local and international funding sources. These
include: (1) disbursements from the FUNDESNAP trust fund; (2) contributions to the FUNDESNAP trust fund
endowment from FONAMA; (3) government funding (both Treasury resources and resources generated from the
protected areas); and (4) parallel financing from bilateral and local donors. Together, these additional sources of
funding total US$28.69 million over the five years of the project. Combined with the US$15.0 million GEF grant,
this result in a total project financing of US$43.69 million.
Summary of Government and Parallel Financing
Table I presents a summary of the various sources of government and parallel financing for the project. Over the
five years of the project, US$2.29 million is projected to be disbursed from the FUNDESNAP Trust Fund, US$4.5
million is committed from the GOB, US$5.37 million will be provided by the Netherlands, US$11.37 will be
provided by Germany, and US$0.55 will be provided by local donors. In addition, US$4.61 million from the
FONAMA trust fund endowment will be invested in the FUNDESNAP Trust Fund (provided by the United States,
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom). Together, these sources of government and parallel financing total
US$28.69 million accounting for over 65 percent of the total project financing (the US$15.0 million GEF grant
accounts for under 35 percent of total project financing).
Government Financing
The govemment of Bolivia committed during the preparation of the CDF to provide increased funding to SERNAP
from 1999 to 2002 (US$0.5 million in 1999, US$0.6 million in 2000, US$0.7 million in 2001, and US$0.8 million
in 2002). Continuing the annual increase of US$0.1 million during the five years of the project implies a total
govemment counterpart of US$4.5 million. The GOB contribution will come from two sources. First, revenues
generated from the protected area system will count towards the govemment's counterpart contribution (estimated
to be US$1.5 million). Second, the difference between these revenues and the annual contribution (starting at
US$0.7 million in 2001 and increasing to US$1.1 million in 2005) will be made up from the govemment's general
budget (an estimated US$3.0 million over five years). The entire annual government financing will be available to
SERNAP to cover either investment or recurrent costs and will be allocated based on annual work plans (initial
projections assume that the revenues generated from the protected area system will be used to strengthen the
management of individual protected areas while the general budget contribution will be used to cover central unit
costs). In particular, the Govermment of Bolivia will use these resources to finance the 10 percent counterpart for
all goods purchased during the project (approximately US$0.09 million).
FUNDESNAP Endowment and Disbursements
The initial endowment of the FUNDESNAP trust fund will come from two sources. The first is the US$5.0 million
provided from the GEF grant. The second source is from the FONAMA trust fund endowment which will be
transferred to the FUNDESNAP trust fund. Together, the initial endowment of the FUNDESNAP trust fund will
be US$9.61 million.
Based on discussions with FUNDESNAP's investment advisor, a net annual rate of return on investments has been
estimated at 6.5 percent. It is conservatively assumed that no disbursements will be made in the first year of the
trust fund (2001) to provide ample time for the establishment of the trust fund and the generation of interest
income without threatening the trust funds capital. It is also assumed that FUNDESNAP will be able to raise an
additional US$ 1.0 million in endowment funds annually during the project.
- 63 -



Over the final four years of the project, the FUJNDESNAP trust fund is projected to disburse US$2.29 million
which will be used by SERNAP to finance recutrent costs in specific protected areas. Initially, FUNDESNAP
disbursements will support the 10 priority protected areas supported by the GEF. As GEF support to these
protected areas declines during the project (85% in year one, 70 percent in years 2 and 3; and 40% in years 4 and
5), the FUNDESNAP disbursements will cover most of the remaining costs (30% in years 2 and 3 and 50% in
years 4 and 5). The remaining recurrent costs will be covered by GOB counterpart funds (15% in year I and 10%
in years 4 and 5).
Table 1. Summary of Parallel Financing (US$ millions).
Financing Source                   2001       2002      2003     2004      2005      TOTAL
FUNDESNAP        Trust    Fund      0.00      0.42      0.42     0.72      0.73       2.29
Disbursements
FONAMA Trust Fund Endowment
PL-480                         1.00                                               1.00
Switzerland                     1.10                                               1.10
United Kingdom                  1.97                                               1.97
capitalized interest                                                               0.55
Bolivian Government
TGN/MDSP                        0.49      0.55      0.65      0.65      0.69       3.03
SNAP resources                  0.21      0.25      0.25      0.35      0.41       1.47
Netherlands
PASNAPH                         1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00       5.00
Netherlands (GP)                0.18      0.17      0.02      0.00      0.00       0.37
Germany
KfW                             1.32      2.32      2.27      0.88      0.65       7.44
GTZ                             0.79      0.79      0.79      0.79      0.79       3.93
Local Donors                        0.10      0.11      0.11     0.12      0.12       0.55
TOTAL                               8.70      5.60      5.51     4.50      4.39       28.69
-64 -



Parallel Financing
Parallel financing will be provided by bilateral donors as well as local NGOs. The two largest bilateral donors to
the SNAP are the governments of the Netherlands and Germany. Together, these two bilateral donors will
contribute US$16.74 million to SERNAP for implementation of the SNAP. It is projected that an additional
US$0.55 million will be provided by local NGOs, typically in the form of direct support to individual protected
areas.
Netherlands Parallel Financing
The majority of the parallel financing provided by the government of the Netherlands will be provided by
PASNAPH which is projected to disburse US$1.0 million annually for the 5 years of the project. PASNAPH is a
very flexible program which allows SERNAP to allocate resources to cover both recurrent and investment costs
with 80 percent of the resources allocated for expenditures in individual protected areas and 20 percent in the
central office. Protected areas covering lowland ecosystems are eligible for support from PASNAPH with initial
focus on 8 protected areas (areas separate from those selected for support by the GEF grant). The remaining
support from the Netherlands (US$0.37 million over the first three years of the project) are targeted for two
protected areas: Tariquia and Sama.
German Parallel Financing
The government of Germany is providing support to SERNAP through both GTZ and KfW. The GTZ program is
projected to provide US$3.93 million over the five years of the project. GTZ's work focuses on natural resource
management in protected areas and their buffer zones through community participation and rnunicipal
strengthening. This work currently focuses on three protected areas (Tariquia, Isiboro-Secure, and Sajama) which
are not supported by the GEF grant.
The program supported by KfW is planned for 12 years and is projected to disburse US$7.44 million over the 5
project years. The program supports both strengthening legal and regulatory framework and strengthening
individual protected areas. The program will initially focus on four protected areas (Sajama, Madidi, Tariquia, and
Cotapata) which are not supported by the GEF grant and the program's mid-term review will decide whether to
expand the number of protected areas to be included. The program includes investment in infrastructure,
demarcation, land titling, and consolidation activities (including capacity building, sustainable natural resource
management and community development activities).
- 65 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Social Assessment, Public Participation, and the Strategy for Addressing Indigenous Peoples Issues
The project's field activities are implemented in areas occupied by a diverse range of social groups
including indigenous people. An estimated 40,000 people currently live within the boundaries of Bolivia's
protected areas.
In accordance with OD 4.30 and OD 4.20, a social assessment has been carried out in six representative
protected areas with community presence. The study, undertaken by a team of Bolivian experts, concluded
that there are potential synergies between the development objectives of local/indigenous communities and
the conservation objectives of protected areas. This commonality of interests between the State, civil
society organizations and local and indigenous populations could generate alliances supporting the project
objectives and provides the framework for the proposed "Sustainable Development with Identity Plans.
1. Summary of Social Assessment
Key issues identified by the social assessment include: (i) although land tenure by communities is generally
compatible with the PAs, conflicts of interest may arise with restrictions on land use by private owners in
some areas; (ii) enforcement of PA management could represent an additional restriction on customary
rights, as well as a restriction on new settlers within the PAs; (iii) restricting the use of natural resources
for subsistence could impose constraints on community development; (iv) fires, overgrazing and illegal
logging are serious environmental hazards, encouraged by the lack of economic altematives for local
communities; and (v) altemative income generating activities would require better access to credit, specific
training in natural resource use and strong environmental education campaigns.
1.1 Objective and methodology
General Obiective:                                 Kev Specific Obiectives:
* Assess the development needs of local people and  * Identify potential beneficiaries and potential
their relationship with the protected areas, and to  partner organizations
identify potential development activities that could be    * Assess the status of land tenure and impacts
supported by the SNAP, based on the existing    * Identify community-based organizations and
community organizations, legislation, and the needs of  other forms of community organization
the local population.                            * Make recommendations to improve social
aspects
Methodology:                                       Criteria for Selecting PAs for the Study:
*  Social Assessment conducted in 6 Protected Areas;  * Management Committee established in the PA
* Information systematization and analysis, comprising:   * Established Natural Area of Integrated
baseline information (primary and secondary), PA   Management within PAs
management plans and Municipal Development Plans.   * High rate of population settled in the PA
* Participatory in situ workshops.                 * Potential for international conservation actions
* Elaboration of community development plans and
identifying potential projects and budget.
- 66 -



1.2. Consultation activities: number o workshop p rticipants at selected protected areas.
Method         Target Group        Ulla Ulla   Sajama    Cotapata   Amboro   KaaIya   Tariquia
Management            8          8          4          5         5         0
Focal Groups    Committee
Management Unit       8          6          7          6        10         0
Management            2          2          2          2         2         2
Semi structured   Committee
interviews
Management Unit       2          2          3          2         2         3
Subtotal:    20        18         16         15        19         5
Total Participants:    93
1.3. Findings and Recommendations to address social needs in PAs:
1.  There is no social impediment for the implementation of the Program to support the SNAP in Bolivia.
However, there would be little support for the PA conservation objectives unless they create direct benefits
to these local and indigenous communities. Major issues include uncertain land tenure, presence of land
conflicts, and lack of environmental awareness.
2.  Even though revenue sharing and income generating activities should provide benefits to local and
indigenous communities, there would be potential negative impacts that could affect them in the short
term.
3.  These impacts could affect both the local poor who presently engage in clandestine exploitation of
protected area resources and influential business interests who also benefit from these activities.
4.  Key potential negative impacts on these social groups may involve: (a ) the potential relocation of people
from areas eventually to be zoned as of strict preservation (NOT APPLICABLE); and (b) restrictions to the
use of natural resources within the protected areas.
5.  Protected Area Management Units are expected to implement PA management plans and control activities.
This should include specific actions and altematives to discourage non-appropriate practices of
slash-and-bum, extensive husbandry, timber extraction, especially in private land within PAs.
6.  Altematives should be developed to mitigate the impact of PAs restrictions on usage of natural resources,
oriented to improve productivity and natural resources management (e.g. ecotourisrn, bee-keeping,
fisheries, organic agriculture, handicrafts, etc.); resources will be required for micro-credit and training for
these productive activities.
7.  There is a need to improve the dialogue with local communities in the PAs, through increasing the
channels of information, improving communication and further developing environmental education
prograrns.
8.  The Management Committees are a key mechanism to facilitate the dialogue between local
communities, PA Management Units and Local Governments, and their roles and capacity should
be expanded with the Program's support.
- 67 -



2. Summary of Public Participation Process
Extensive and systematic consultations were undertaken with key social actors and institutions in Santa
Cruz, Cochabamba, Tarija, La Paz and in selected PAs. These identified a high acceptance and support to
the project among the various social groups, and a general willingness to participate actively in PA
management.
2.1. Objective and methodology:
Obiective:                                                Methodolo_v:
(i) Initiate a process to inform the public and potential actors    (a) Selection of PAs;
about the National System for Protected Areas (SNAP);  (b) Identification of institutions and
(ii) Assess the level of acceptance of the SNAP amongst      organizations;
potential partners, local institutions and beneficiaries in the  (c) 8 workshops (4 local, 3 Departmental
different Departrnents and Protected Areas.              and I national);
(d) Interviews and surveys;
(e) Information systematization and
analysis.
2.2. Consultation activities:
Selected PAs:                                             Level of participation:
(1) Ambor6, (2) Kaa-lya del Chaco, (3) Cotapata and (4) Ulla  * 149 participants
Ulla.                                                     * 93 Institutions/organizations were
represented: 62% of public institutions,
Selected Departments:                                        34% of social/private (including
Tarija, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and La Paz.                   community organizations) and 4% of
universities)
2.3. Key findings from the Public Participation Process and areas for action
Norms and Institutional Framework:                        PAs and Management Committees:
*  There is institutional recognition of the strategic importance    *  Weak PA's categorization and border
of the SNAP and National Service for Protected Areas      definition.
(SERNAP).                                             *  PA management Committees are
*  SNAP strategic value lacks full political support from the  fundamental to increase social and
GOB.                                                     institutional participation.
*  There is priority need to complete the ongoing process of  *  Management committees need to be
establishing the legal framework for the SNAP.            reorganized to increase representation
*  Overlapping institutional roles and functions (SERNAP,    (including Departmental and local
DGB, VAIPO, INRA).                                        governments, CBOs, NGOs and other
*  Weak institutional structures, lack of institutional capacity  institutional actors).
and poor inter-institutional coordination at central and field    *  Poor information exchange and
levels.                                                   coordination amongst institutions
*  There is a need to decentralize SERNAP and SNAP        *  Increase financial support to increase
management.                                               capacity of management committees.
- 68 -



Economy and Productivity:                                Information and Social Communication:
*  Low understanding of economic opportunities resulting from   *  Limited informnation about SNAP,
the establishment of a PA (ecotourism, genetic resources and  SERNAP and PAs
research, micro-enterprises, sustainable agriculture).  *  Lack of continuity in SNAP activities
*  Lack of consensus regarding the definitions and scope of  (workshops and information events)
natural resources management and conservation.       *  Limited access to information and
*  Weak understanding of the links between social and       results from workshops.
environmental sustainability.
* Lack of participatory community development plans with
involvement of the PA Management Units.
Education. trainin2 and research:                        Financin:
*  Lack of knowledge about environmental and PA          *  The establishment of the Trust Fund is
management and need to incorporate environmental and     fundamental for the sustainability of
conservation topics into education curricula.           the SNAP.
*  Strengthening of human resources involved in PA       *  Need for cost-efficiency and
management.                                              participatory management.
*  Coordinate and integrate research activities as part of  *  Need of financial information
SERNAP and SNAP development                              exchange.
*  Increase inter-institutional coordination incorporating  *  Development of financial mechanisms
academic and research centers.                          to support SNAP and to benefit local
communities is a priority.
* GOB financial support should increase.
* There is a need for transparent
management.
Additional key remarks:
* The Publicparticipation process has generated public
awareness of SNAP, SERNAP and the Project..
* Social sectors and institutions expressed a high acceptance
for SNAP, SERNAP and the Project.
*  There is a great deal of confusion regarding SERNAP's
structure, role andfunctions.
a  Workshops to address the decentralization of the SERNAP
should be implemented on a priority basis.
3.     Strategy for Addressing Indigenous Peoples Issues
Even though revenue sharing and income-generating activities should provide benefits to local communities
and to indigenous groups, it is recognized that, in attempting to bring order to protected areas management,
there may be adversely affected individuals over the short term.
Although these potential impacts have been generically identified by the social assessment, the likelihood of
their occurrence, the identification of the individuals and groups affected, their scope and magnitude, the
possibilities to avoid or mitigate them, cannot be determined at this stage of the program. The nature and
characteristics of the social impacts will depend on the policies adopted for the SNAP, the legal status of
the protected areas, the demarcation and zoning of these areas and their management plans, the range of
specific needs of the people affected in every protected area; all of these will be developed as part of the
program's implementation.
-69 -



Article 171 of the Bolivian Constitution, modified in 1994, recognizes "the social, economic and cultural
rights of indigenous peoples that inhabit the national territory, especially to their communal lands of origin,
warranting their use and sustainable management of their natural resources, their identity, values, language
and institutions". The recognition of these rights orients the proposed framework Policy for Indigenous
People living within and around the PAs. The treatment of indigenous people issues emerging from the
project implementation will be consistent with the principles contained in the Operational Guideline 4.20
(Indigenous People) and the corresponding regulations of the Republic of Bolivia. The key principles and
guidelines
3.1 Parks with People
The GOB adopted the principle of "parks with people" and therefore no resettlement is expected to take
place. However, if the PAs zoning eventually indicates the need for limited relocation of indigenous people
and/or the need to restrain their access to certain natural resources within the PAs, these issues will be
addressed in accordance with the framework policy for Population Issues within PAs adopted by the GOB (
this policy framework is presented in Annex 17), with full respect of their dignity, human rights and cultural
uniqueness.
3.2 Participation
The proposed program is designed as a process to integrate local and indigenous cormmunities as active
participants and beneficiaries in PA management and conservation. Local preferences will be identified
through direct consultation. The direct involvement of the indigenous people in both the preparation of the
PA management plans and the annual operational plans (POAs) is key to ensure that these communities
will benefit from protected areas.
A central principle of the proposed project is the collegial management of the protected areas through the
Consejos de Administraci6n (PA management committees). The October 2000 agreement between the
GOB and the indigenous, farmers and colonizers organizations stipulates that 50% of the members of the
Consejos de Administracion should represent these organizations; moreover, these Consejos will have
significant decision powers over the management of their respective protected areas.
In particular, the project targets the indigenous and local communities in developing and piloting models for
income generation within the PAs and buffer zones. Indigenous knowledge will be incorporated both into
the management plans (component 2) and into the development of models for biodiversity and natural
resources management (component 5).
3.3 Indigenous People Development Strategy and the SNAP Planning Cycle
Bolivian regulations based on the Popular Participation Law (Law No. 1551) consider that every
municipality should prepare a Municipal Development Plan (MDP) with a five years scope. This Law
recognizes Indigenous Communities, Indigenous peoples and Peasant Communities as juridical persons and
affirms that these organizations are territorially based. Under Municipality's responsibilities and obligations
are rural development, health, education and cultural infrastructure and supplies, irrigation schemes, the
municipal road system, sports infrastructure and others.
The Popular Participation Law also defnes the creation of Municipal Districts in order to preserve the
unity of social and cultural units and allows the creation of Indigenous Districts based on territorial
continuity.
Based on this policy Indigenous Districts prepare Indigenous District Development Plans (IDDPs) in
accordance to the Municipal Development Plans, taking into account that these Districts constitute a sort of
autonomous administrative units that carry their own participatory planning processes. IDDPs should be in
line with sustainable development practices guaranteeing the rights of indigenous peoples, so they can
- 70 -



define their own development strategies, based on their own cultural organizations. Formulation of IDDPs
are under the responsibility of Municipalities and they do not constitute an isolated effort; moreover, it is
part of the preparation process of the Municipal Development Plan.
On the other hand, Bolivian policies establish the creation of TCOs (Tierras Comunitarias de Origen)
which constitute specific territories with a title deed on behalf of indigenous groups. TCOs are defined
based on studies of land needs claimed by indigenous groups in order for them to accomplish their survival
strategies. The recently created Ministerio de Asuntos Campesinos e Indigenas is in charge of
accompanying the preparation of Specific Management Plans for TCOs and for Indigenous Districts.
The proposed Program is designed as a process framework for incorporating the needs and aspirations of
local and indigenous communities into the SNAP Master Plan as well as in the planning and management
of PAs and buffer zones. areas. This participatory planning process will be coordinated by the Consejos de
Administraci6n, which will ensure broad communication and consultation with all the stakeholders.
The SNAP Master Plan will be prepared through a consultative and participatory process to ensure that
they reflect the current social and institutional conditions in Bolivia. Social groups, local and indigenous
communities, scientific and govemnmental institutions and NGOs will be invited to establish the detailed
TORs for the MP and follow up on its preparation.
The Protected Areas Management Plans (PAMPs) are developed in line with Municipal Development
Plans which constitute part of the Bolivian National Planning System. PAMPs will also be prepared in
tandem with Indigenous District Development Plans (IDDPs) and with TCO Management Plans.
When applicable, PAMPS will integrate indigenous issues considering the following guidelines:
1. Legal Framework. The plan should contain an assessment of (i) the legal status of the PA indigenous
groups and (ii) the ability of such groups to obtain access to and effectively use the legal system to
defend their rights.
2. Baseline Data. These include (i) accurate, up-to-date maps and aerial photographs of the area of
project influence and the areas inhabited by indigenous peoples; (ii) analysis of the social structure and
income sources of the population; (iii) inventories of the resources that indigenous people use and
technical data on their production systems; (iv cultural practices, religious beliefs and (v) the
relationship of indigenous peoples to other local and national groups.
3. Land Tenure. The plan should assess the land tenure situation, and ensure the rights of indigenous
people to their customary and traditional lands.
4. Strategy for Local Participation. Mechanisms should be devised and maintained for participation by
indigenous people in decision making throughout project planning, implementation, and evaluation,
according with their social organization, language and cultural schedules.
5. Identification and assessment ofpositive and/or negative impacts. According with the activities
proposed in the PA, it will be identify and assess the positive or negative impacts for each indigenous
people. This process will carry out with the participation of the indigenous people.
6. Technical Identification of Development or Mitigation Activities. Technical proposals should proceed
from on-site research by qualified professionals acceptable to the Bank and with the participation of the
indigenous people involved.. Detailed descriptions should be prepared and appraised for such proposed
services as education, training, health, credit, and legal assistance. Technical descriptions should be
included for the planned investments in productive infrastructure.
7. Institutional Capacity. An institutional assessment will be prepared, addressing: (i) the availability of
funds for investments and field operations; (ii) the adequacy of experienced professional staff; (iii) the
ability of indigenous peoples' own organizations, local administration authorities, and local NGOs to
interact with specialized govemment institutions; (iv) the ability of the executing agency to mobilize
other agencies involved in the plan's implementation; and (v) the adequacy of field presence.
- 71 -



8. Implementation Schedule. Components should include an implementation schedule with benchmarks
by which progress can be measured at appropriate intervals. Pilot programs are often needed to provide
planning information for phasing the project component for indigenous peoples with the main
investment. The plan should pursue the long-term sustainability of project activities subsequent to
completion of disbursement.
9. Monitoring and Evaluation. Independent monitoring,, including reporting formats and schedules
appropriate to the project's needs, should be established.
10. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan. The plan should include detailed cost estimates for planned
activities and investments. The estimates should be broken down into unit costs by project year and
linked to a financing plan.
The preparation of the PA annual operatonalplans will specifically contemplate the issues of indigenous
development in the protected areas and buffer zones, and include adequate budget allocations to implement
the programmed actions in line with SERNAP's mandate.
3A Potential Financing
Indigenous Districts get their budget allocations from the respective Municipalities in order to implement
IDDPs. On their side, Municipalities are entitled to a co-participacion budget that is distributed based on
their population size. (The Popular Participation Law establishes an equal distribution scheme of 20% of the
tributary financial resources obtained by the Bolivian State to the Municipalities.) Municipality incomes also
come from the National Investment Funds, Prefecturas, NGOs, projects under National Ministries and
from the generation of their own financial resources through licenses and fees.
Besides, the Ministry of Indigenous Affairs (Formerly the VAIPO-Viceministerio de Asuntos Indigenas) carries
out the preparation and financing of Indigenous and TCO Development Plans supported by national and
internationally financed projects.
Phase I of the proposed Program will finance a limited number of NRM sub-projects within the protected
areas, which will support community-based PA conservation models under component E, thus benefiting
indigenous people. Phase n1 of the proposed program is particularly focused on expanding the social
support to the SNAP through community-based, conservation-related income generating activities in the
PAs and buffer areas. It will also complete the demarcation and address land tenure issues in the protected
areas. During Phase IIL the autonomous management of PAs will be strengthened, including the possibility
of providing concessions for the operations and management of protected areas to Indigenous people,
following the example of the Kaa Iya and TIPNIS (Territorio Indigena y Parque Nacional Isiboro S6cure)
protected areas. These activities should benefit especially the affected indigenous people.
- 72 -



3.5 Institutional Responsibilities
SERNAP will coordinate indigenous issues of its Protected Areas Management Plans with the respective
responsible agencies in charge of the Indigenous District Development Plans and TCOs Management Plans.
Specific arrangements for the implementation of the IPDPs will be established, involving the PA
Management Committees, Municipalities, the Ministry of Indigenous Affairs, INRA, CIDOB (
Confederacion Indigena del Oriente de Bolivia) and specialized NGOs.
The program will include, in its Phase II, adequate support for capacity building and technical assistance to
the institutions involved in the IPDPs' preparation and implementation.
SNAP's Planning Cycle and The National Planning System (NPS)
PLAN          Vision       Time Range    National Planning           Related Plans
System
SNAP Master  Strategic     Long term       - National Social and     - National Sector Agency
Plan                       (15 to 25        Economic Development      Plans
years)          Plan
PA            Strategic    Medium term    - Departamento             - Departamento Sector
Management   and tactical   (5 years)       Development Plan          Agencies Dev. Plans
Plan                                       - Municipal Development    - Indigenous District
Plan                      Development Plans
- TCOs Management
Plans
PA Annual    Operational   Short term      - Municipal Annual        - Specific Annual
Operational                (I year)         Operational Plans         Operational Plans
Plan
- 73 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Environment Impact Framework
Introduction
The proposed GEF supported Sustainability of the National System for Protected Areas in Bolivia Program aims at
achieving the sustainable management of the National System of Protected areas. The project components are not
expected to have any significant negative impacts on the environment. Field construction activities are small scale,
involving the construction of field posts, small buildings and trails. However, there may be impacts from induced
activities related to tourism development in buffer zones, the construction of ecotourism lodges, access roads and
interpretation trails. Sustainable economic activities planned within buffer zones (e.g. agro-ecological production,
sustainable harvesting of non-timber products such as medicinal plants and bio-prospecting activities) may also
have impacts.
The project has been classified as Category B, since some of its activities could potentially generate negative
environmental impacts. This refers mainly to the implementation of Component 2 of the proposed project,
involving the construction of infrastructure for the protected areas (offices, campsites, visitor services, housing for
the park rangers), the repair of access roads and/or trails, and ecotourism infrastructure.
This note provides a reference framework for the environmental assessment of these potentially impacting
activities. It identifies the potential impacts of the proposed activities, highlights approaches to mitigate the adverse
impacts, and defines the procedures to be followed for the environmental assessment of these activities in the
protected areas.
Potential Environmental Impacts due to Infrastructure Construction in Protected Areas
Buildings and Campsites. Civil works will be undertaken in the PAs to build management offices, main and
support campsites to set up surveillance in areas considered critical, housing for rangers, tourist lodging, and
places where indigenous people can trade their handicrafts. Most of them involve small constructions and basic
infrastructure, and will be usually located in areas classified as atrophic, or already altered.
Natural vegetation is one of the most sensitive elements affected by building and infrastructure works. The existing
vegetation has to be cut down and rooted out in the construction sites. This will have a limited impact in the
Protected Areas, because of the small scale of the proposed infrastructure.
One potential risk during the infrastructure construction phase is of uncontrolled fires due to waste burning. The
fires could affect timber species, , altering the landscape, destroying habitats and decreasing biodiversity.
Although no archaeological sites are know to exist in the construction sites, there is a moderate risk that the
infrastructure to be built could potentially affect archeological or cultural heritage.
Considering the fact that in most of the Protected Areas in Bolivia are inhabited by local communities and
indigenous people, the availability of infrastructure and the construction itself might attract a disorganized
expansion of human settlements nearby the main campsites or the administrative centers. New settlements could
lead to an increase of extensive herding and cattle raising practices, which in turn could affect PA natural
ecosystems.
Road and Trail Maintenance. Even though the By-Laws for Protected Areas do not foresee any new road
constructions in the areas, the repair of existing access roads and trails could lead to limited deforestation of the
natural vegetation and might also potentially affect wildlife and archeological sites. Increased accessibility to PA
areas could foster illegal logging, poaching and mining.
Ecotourism. The impacts of ecotourism in Protected Areas could be significant, if uncontrolled. These activities
target the most beautiful landscapes, which normally also happen to be the most vulnerable sites from an
environmental standpoint. This affects areas of high natural and visual value due to footsteps and stomping,
all-terrain vehicle tracks, defacing of sites and monuments, illegal removal of plants and wildlife, materials and
- 74 -



artifacts, and crowding. The construction of facilities for visitors in Protected Areas can attract investment in
tourism and camping infrastructures, thus increasing the level of economic activity and its consequent impacts in
the surrounding buffer zones.
Managing Environmental Impacts
The following preventative, corrective and compensatory measures will be adopted to manage the impacts
identified above, adapted to the specific conditions of each PA.
Construction of Buildings and Infrastructure
*   The Protected Area Management Plans shall prepare land use diagnostics whereby threatened places are
identified and mapped out. The zoning of the PAs shall identify the various areas for restricted use and their
management regimes, according to the classification provided by the General By-Laws of Protected Areas
(Supreme Decree No. 24781 of July 31, 1997. According to the By-Laws of Protected Areas, the infrastructure
to be built must be located in the so-called "Special Zones".
*   The main campsites, visitor welcome centers, and interpretation centers must be located in strategic places,
where they do not damage the vegetation, fauna, water, and soil. Additionally, their location must be
determined in relation to the visual resource. The size of the facilities must be proportional to the type of work
and the Protected Area's carrying capacity.
*   The infrastructure to be built must follow adapted architectural guidelines and must bear relation to the
location's environmental conditions and socio-anthropological reality expressed in the local inhabitants'
culture.
a   The construction of works must use, if possible, local supplies and labor. In case technology is used, this must
use clean energy sources, such as solar, wind, or hydraulic energy.
*   If necessary, sewage systems and peripheral drainage ditches must be built for proper water channeling in
order to protect the park rangers' homes and the main campsite. They will avoid floods.
*   If the works produce visual impacts, some visual-isolation screens, such as native trees or bushes, must be
planted as live fences around the facilities, so as to blend with the surrounding landscape. Color contrast must
be avoided for the infrastructure not to stand out in the scenery.
*   The facilities must have restrooms, water disposal systems, and controlled waste or residue deposits.
*   Vegetation protection plans and programs must be established to avoid the facilities becoming a source of
forest fires.
* In case that already built structures cause negative environmental effects, these will be minimized through
modifications of the structures to adapt them to their surroundings, or if this is not possible, their relocation.
*   Electrical or telephone wiring that causes visual impact in visited areas should be buried.
*   In cases where the impacts from construction are irreversible, or where environmental elements are difficult to
protect, the PA Management Unit can adopt compensatory measures, such as: spreading of the earth or fertile
soil extracted from the infrastructure site in other places; landscaping with native trees, shrubs, or pasture
planting; restoration of degraded habitats and ecosystems.
Road And Trail Maintenance
*   The repair of roads and ecological trails must use light equipment (tractors, motor graders, truck shovels, etc.)
to avoid further damage to vegetation and soil. Where possible, the restoration works should be made with
local labor.
*   Earth movement and side slope cutting must be made without going out of the right of way, trying to affect
natural vegetation, river courses, and organic soil the least possible.
*   In case an existing road or trail is significantly affecting a specific ecosystem, a less impacting variant or
detour could be built.
*   In areas where road repairs have caused damage to natural vegetation, revegetation through planting or
sowing in bare patches of land must be executed.
*   In cases where the road or trail interferes with wildlife movement, adequate signage should be provided; if the
flow of vehicles could pose a significant danger to animal populations or represent a barrier to their
movements, solutions such as fencing and bypasses should be sought.
- 75 -



Ecotourism
*   There must be control and registration for visitors to the different protected area ecosystems. Visitors should be
informed of the PA regulations, such as prohibition to collect plants and animals, waste disposal, areas of
restricted access, etc.
*   Critical places in the protected areas must be off limits to tourists. This must be enforced by permanent
surveillance and control in particularly vulnerable areas or ecosystems.
*   Orientation signs, commercial signaling and publicity panels within the PAs should comply with the
regulations established in the Basic Sign Handbook of the Bolivian National Protected Areas System (March
1 999).
Environmental Assessment Procedures in Protected Areas
The SERNAP administration has adopted an environmental and socio-cultural protection strategy for the protected
areas during the implementation of the GEF project on Biodiversity Conservation (1992/98). This strategy is
based on the implementation of management plans, the application of internal regulations in each Protected Area,
and the elaboration of specific environmental assessment studies on infrastructure construction, road repair, and
ecotourism. Within this context, specific ecosystem protection regulations have been developed for protected areas
and should be enforced through administrative and technical procedures, described below:
I . SERNAP, the Protected Area Director, and technical staff of the diverse protected areas must establish and
recognize the infrastructure needs for each protected area (housing, interpretation centers, roads, etc.), define
the priorities for construction, and evaluate the budget available for the planned infrastructure works.
2. For every building or infrastructure construction within the PAs, a specific environmental impact study will be
prepared by the proponent (PA management or private owner), that includes the site's biotic, abiotic and
socio-cultural resource assessment, determining the limits and area to be affected.
3. The studies must include at least two alternative locations for the infrastructure construction, evaluated on
their technical and financial merits. These options must be submitted to the consideration of the Bolivian
National Protected Areas System authorities and to the National Directorate of Environmental Impacts at the
MSDP for final approval. In case significant environmental impacts are identified in any of the alternatives,
the consultant who elaborated the alternative must modify the design so that it is optimal from an
environmental standpoint.
4. In case the infrastructure is constructed under Concessionaire terms inside the protected area, the process shall
comply with the regulations established by the By-Laws of the Environmental Law. This law prescribes the
need to:
*   Elaborate an Environmental Card (classifying the type of environmental study)
X   Elaborate an Environmental Impact Assessment Study that includes detailed negative environmental
impact mitigation measures, and
*   Obtain the Environmental Impact Statement issued by the National Directorate of Environmental
Impact.
5. The National Authority on Protected Areas jointly with the National Directorate of Environmental Impact will
follow up and oversight the established procedures (terms of reference, invitation and elaboration of
proposals). They will approve the studies done within the environmental assessment framework and supervise
the execution of the mitigation measures agreed upon.
- 76 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Independent Evaluation of the Pilot Phase GEF Project
(Achievements and Lessons Learned)
Background
The first protected area of Bolivia, the Parque Nacional Sajama, was created in 1939. However, it was not until
1985 that the Bolivian government designated administrative responsibility for its management to the Forestry
Development Center (CDF). In 1992, with the enactment of the National Environment Law (Ley 1333), all
management responsibilities for parks and protected areas passed to the newly created National Secretariat for the
Environment (Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambiente, SENMA). In 1993, protected areas came under the
National Directorate (DCNB) within a newly created Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment.
The Bolivian Congress established the National System for Protected Areas (Sistema Nacional de Areas
Protegidas-SNAP) in 1992, composed of 18 legally created protected areas. Currently, biodiversity conservation
within protected areas is the responsibility of SERNAP (Servicio del Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas) within
a new Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning, through the office of the Viceminister for the
Environment, Natural Resources, and Forest Development. SERNAP was created in 1998 by Congress, as an
autonomous Government agency in charge of the management of SNAP. A summary of the categories in the SNAP
is presented below:
Main Category Of Protected Area                                     % Of the Country In The
Management                                 Area (in hectares)               Category
*  National Parks (IUCN I-II)                  7,440,919                     6.77%
*  Natural Integrated Management               6,471,932                     5.89%
Areas (IUCN III-IV)
*  Indigenous Territories (only those          5,110,704                     4.65%
belonging to the SNAP) (IUCN                ,1,
III-IV)
TOTALS                                         19,023,555                    17.32%
GEF Pilot Phase Project
The GEF supported Biodiversity Conservation Project (Pilot Phase) was approved in 1992 and received
cofinancing support from the Government of Switzerland. The major components of the project were: (i) support
for the organization, implementation, and follow up of the SNAP; (ii) support to eight PAs (including six existing
protected areas and two new protected areas to be established); (iii) altemative management of natural resources in
buffer zones; (iv) monitoring and evaluation; and (v) administrative support to the Project Coordination Unit.
- 77 -



Specific activities included: (i) institutional strengthening of the National Directorate of Biodiversity Conservation
(DGB); (ii) development of a biodiversity information system; (iii) consolidation of the SNAP via the development
and implementation of management plans; (iv) implementation of a program of control and enforcement within
the protected areas which make up the SNAP; (v) training for personnel in the SNAP; and (vi) development of
rules, regulations, policies and procedures to supervise the SNAP through a coordinated system of law
enforcement. The project envisioned the development of a long term funding strategy for the SNAP.
The project achieved most of its objectives. The project's most notable achievements are:
*   development of the SNAP based on protection of representative ecoregions;
*   trained professionals are in place at headquarters and in the parks;
*   basic infrastructure and equipment are in place including a radio communications system;
* two new protected areas were established: (i) Parque Nacional y Area Natural de Manejo Integrado K'aaiya del
Gran Chaco; and (ii) Parque Nacional y Area Natural de Manejo Integrado Madidi, covering a total of 6.4
million ha.
*   management plans developed for seven priority areas.
*   the capacity of the DNAPVS (today SERNAP) to administer the SNAP and to fulfill its other functions was
strengthened.
*   a Park Guard Training Center has been established with Universidad Aut6noma Gabriel Rene Moreno at its
facilities in El Vallecito.
*   Citizen committees were established in most areas.
In addition to these achievements, the SNAP provided the framework for: (1) the development of a successful
Wildlife Management and Germplasm Conservation Program; and (2) a significant increase in the number and
total area under management. There is concern, though, that the expansion has been too rapid and is having a
negative impact on the areas established prior to 1992. Between 1993 and 1998, the area under the SNAP
expanded from 8% to 17% of Bolivia's territory, without a commensurate increase in budget. In this regard, the
GEF project may have been overzealous in encouraging this increase without ensuring that mechanisms for
financial sustainability were in place. The proposed SNAP Sustainability project intends to address this problem by
prioritizing and decentralizing management of some areas to NGOs and local govemment.
The primary weakness of the Pilot Phase Project resulted from the lack of a viable fiduciary fund and altemative
revenue sources (fees, etc.) to fund the annual operating costs of the SNAP (approximately US$5.0 million per
year). Political meddling undermined the institutional viability of the GOBs key financing entity, FONAMA,
resulting in the failure of the fiduciary fund to obtain adequate financial support from donors. After the dismissal
of the project management unit staff in 1997, funding delays to parks resulted in the resignation of key staff
members and park wardens; since then, however, key staff have been re-hired. Secondary factors that limited
project performance were: (i) lack of transparency in the contracting processes that would build on successes
realized throughout the life of the project; (ii) excessive emphasis on programs based in La Paz; (iii) the failure to
develop a comprehensive ecotourism strategy and an entry fee policy; (iv) the failure to pass the Biodiversity Law,
which would have given the Park wardens and areas themselves a more substantial legal mandate; and (v) the
failure to plan in a timely fashion for ongoing support after the project ended.
IUCN Independent Evaluation
An IUCN independent evaluation of the GEF Pilot Phase project was conducted in late 1998. Its findings and
recommendations have been discussed with the GoB and the Bank, and, where appropriate, incorporated into the
proposed design of the SNAP Sustainability Project. A full report is available from the Bank and from SERNAP.
The findings in the report are summarized as follows:
There is a general opinion that the project has permitted the consolidation of two aspects of biodiversity
conservation in Bolivia. Firstly, it has significantly increased the number of protected areas being managed; and
secondly it has strengthened the management capacity of national organizations, both governmental and
non-governmental. Starting out in 1993 from a situation where a total of 4 areas were being administered by
organizations other than the national authority, in 1998 there were a total of 14 protected areas with some degree
of management carried out directly or indirectly by the national author-ity. Management capacity is manifested in a
- 78 -



body of park guards and area directors, the great majority of whom are committed to the principles of conservation
and sustainable development, and have at their disposition tools to enable them to manage protected areas in
complex social situations.
Both the protected areas network and the personnel in charge of it constitute the principal achievements of the
project, and the strengthening of these two aspects should continue be the centerpiece of any future initiative.
The project has also contributed to testing, with varying degrees of success, innovative mechanisms, such as
Management Committees and Administration Agreements, which have permitted the incorporation and
strengthening of local people and non-governmental organizations in the management of protected areas. In
addition, the GEF contribution has acted as a catalyst in attracting a variety of new sources of funding for the
national system of protected areas (SNAP).
Taking into account the original status of the institutions charged with managing the protected area sys-tem, the
amount of finance provided, and the implementation period of the project, the IUCN Evaluation team concluded
that the General Directorate of Biodiversity (DGB) - the principal beneficiary of the project- suffered the
consequences of an institutional growth crisis. This crisis is not unrelated to the evolution of the institutional and
normative context in Bolivia during recent years. There were a number of deficiencies in the management of the
project that could be improved. The responsibility of these deficiencies is shared by the Bolivian institutions and
the donor and cooperation agencies. Both groups of institutions should contribute equally to their solution.
The IUCN Independent Evaluation team recommended that a second phase of the project be pursued. In so doing,
they identified the following as elements that should be addressed in the design of the follow-on project:
*   A System Plan formally adopted by the Bolivian State (legislative and executive branches).
* Differentiation of roles and functions of government and non-government organizations and their capacity to
participate in the implementation of the System Plan and contribute to the sustainability of the SNAP.
*   Putting on sound basis the SNAP (boundary demarcation, re-categorization, zoning and derogation).
*   Differentiation of jurisdiction of government agencies with responsibility for protected area management.
*   A technical and administrative structure fully dedicated to the management of the project, operating in
coordination with the national protected areas authority.
-   A Project Steering Committee.
*   An analysis of the real capacity of the national authority of protected areas to administer the GEF funds.
-   These issues have been fully taken into account in designing the present project.
- 79 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
Project Institutional Framework
Figure 1. Linkages among Key Stakeholders
WORLW 3K
j _ )......... ........                                      aE     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
PA     PROTECTED AREA
.- ,      uOTH DONOR-                   Po     PARTNER ORGANISATION
I E - IN VI S R O PO                                                                        O   C O OT ER.....................S..... ........  .   ...  -------  (e o   C IO , OrNERS)
jNVIRONMEI                , '        PA41U  PA MANAGEMENT UNIT
i   aw.F cral                PA-PAC  PA MANAGMENT COUNCIL
\PRtOMMt NXTIMMNSPO                                                    BUR 8  -
\          SOJ~~RWCT               / I D SC I\                           \/ 
\   COORUN^TION        /      |  CON8ULTANTS |          \           
- 80 -



Figure 2. SERNAP Organigram
ESTRIJCTUJRA ORGANIZATIVA DEL SERVICIO NACIONAL DE AREAS PROTEGIDAS
Aj Diectvor 
_ _                  - _   _   __   _,  _ _       Pryecto          I
r r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M APZ A
PASNAPi
KFW
DIRECTORES
DE AREAS        Dictor J rt h1                                    Dtet A *
PROTEGIDAS                                                                                                                  - -----
(DIE                                 I 
Personal de  ben canGEro                           I                                        1          |
Proteccidn ~ ~       ~           ~           ~          ~          -___    _.bicotal  k______s
- llanciuaniento GEF U1
---Rei6n de dependeni. funcional
- 81 -



Additional
Annex No.: 16
Letter of Sector Policy
La aa4Nv4mber a%, 2000
Ms. lsabe G.menro
TMb Wav~d U14*
I 'SN SVWI.!N, Wasbwtom. DC 20431.
USA
Viw Lubz
lht  ~~    ~as e I;-*%W   to dke U1wt~  N=50=~ clglewin On 5ij4&vwj;jty sirn" m
t~ftA4*MsCais u0i       S*Uof  " B POwt tOo4    td AM ms t# X itt BtV'S Deg.-A
rr osui*f thol: AOAS& moveiJv40, Wm  St m %& tis ng** must1 be "e m a rmticzl
thu,  s emmwz'Fjs WroaWz1y 104(wa w~it   of *Asa v=aumm. Bdhla ba cotiunhr4 itself io
ftfesuA4 ou   pototvqu   0 mod  smgtjwe x;dmms of1be eomatoow hol~a~  uinil d:vvrsCi-y
91 V iwcomv  tot ?utwe 4%eis Sloce  939,. whm umIotrtpom~   n   a  crd  pdtL
-thavr eiattd &bow t 7% orour twr:oty as prortewu &Msm, -%alst~ w 4dy&r cuut prokie
uoi* s r4p.dimaimubt dam"oi-neow a6 a CQC"   niuixu ~  ot Dr COU-1i;y";       I'i
Kar               weab~Jt  priOr4  to Iw=bi=  aoo~ sn"Aa4  UW~ palic!"ew vwwmi
dav*okpmemu                          nm~onos .ol~s 11esurbislmo  4fpotctc4 ms*oe i i-%oeii coi~,cl,, tihm
~ a'   yoitfte  .4oaaj 3ys~fPoful Ara 'qirsUw   reaae pors,ittlv s 
The s-av;mAW  ma agrwt*Tel    bio6rosyr~ tq  rem Pi adoqit iczc wm ftmWitw"k.Qaa of the pnoeriy
WA4~ O~rtbe m4ijsu-y *r dic nt    I two yms  fth ap1ovm, by Co0,ss. orThe tvs on Proew4
AlZUan dwLAWall So*W  iT  TUC i ~         lti  a4-A my ofSMAP. w.hicb u'dll hmvt a
r.o=Al1s rcgu4mary "i suw-iso roke -in t se!AsAtr wil be vuumnmL Thor, laws will oJsl
~~ rlth paoiaJpasfo  of ekvli sociory. SivPiI orguunz10so md ibft4-cUs peoples it ith
ThmA~eatcn bf protocted arm.~ sUtstnthsirig eO-4dv*'isUmI*n   ktisw  anid tlke 1=4vi
Dirzce :zr oImvZ d ase*
Thte BaNi,ia Stsue *&dopie the piskfiple af'Twigs with Poo*openn tharofm orknwlegos the rLjkn
lb h-ave uces ta dbi4t namra~ rc*owc=m  watbi zhc scoe 01 1 4aacgrWs  mzivg Thomfore, w&y
r="u lo~ tiw  cces or   ,t ath"o wo arad 0 r4Courm w'lt be   Uo4ly vVe;ir withi tkte Vht
Ith  Worl4 SaXk 5 wst reqacxuu ee :
B   4e of I  $-liv4        b. M Su%w lb. mim   siSriabl DevitV I n lni4 tis a 1ve5 W he ttl4y to
w aze 0 . r Sl  C,we Jst afwvsgm  1*, H-0 :unr %thlbth 62=m  Oled  mus UTAMhko
by wsWr-FWv Op*Iowns. te mialsuryli wbr            f toe us so anevf xe inwc.Sl. v ial   tiuiEsi mad
=vur      rs4 s at urbiity and i      pitowfury of TheMafiooul Prouctd Ams SYssr (SNAP) of Bolivia.
-82 -



y
On> of fhe prirlp1 ljectiws for the n   year is f=used D t1iegdua rednii,n of o  depeagcee
cn ca=al firxa0 wu w=p t1w Naofi 1 Poted    Am& Systta (SNAP). Tis will be =biy.- 
iroush sii;wnuetial 5     4   iae.si  sio laspat a   rain .o ie SA
(uz4s, the WU*40iv  of.idwir fns, debt excrne, tie geeratioa ntowr V!$*5ts it: any feas
U; oter PA e'iecS and adoring md*isrns of onpsuaftn for ea  otnemstai sci*icm provided
by th1e SNAP.
In, -is- wteaxt, *b Hmims V. g-Susie'I S lopmant aa4 Piandiw cqmtls Ilumfe Lo atiqninig
to wt  -vv    "Siisa  ab ity o*wt3  SNA11SNAP". with amuaI c  tion&statng at
iWDO Amarizaa Dollar sfor th   ar ou2004 6OQWA    for 2002; 60.00b        for        0 5OQ0O I 4r a4
a;a 63.Wo for 2005. up wa iotg* nuibutiou of 3O3 rtillii i    i= aD *qs fAt tiht frtphae Ir.
ed Arues Sym   (FUI4DESNAF) as a privata: fltin    G non to mAna  the SNAP  linanial
res4zrcs Thev FUN,SNAP wfH fus, la isinil-  l five yeat iop"Si, bD covebrte nin costs
QI-c SN4AP.
ThS t1oby= Gomamt coaos   thle coxwpo tb, p ru= -sustabinwit or aitiana
?rgncW Arou-Systc  (SAI)" as a tp priorityr-Te pu%pVsc of this pro       * t  et-t    rc hes
rs    oS        zat*VG CC ar.d h A biowwrrs  o   lia am ouseno and sustninably naraped trug a
n!&sZ       mot t             . B y i  cod of the pssn, dt SNA1P is CXPn      to te  -fM
sutwn&  vwsparent deeen*aHzd, and manad throt   ptpm ps  &ith lkcar comnmunities,
zOrv-.T *w a: vari Ms levelr, NGOaali4she privt $VA-or.
1Mis pioaVa  has a proposed dur&in of fifma yeam subtiided u  tsr  phsaL hi t;he fu  fitve
yN.s,  the prop=  VW  tornib   WM fantdon  TO 4ilOw for th  lang-MM maaaag=rt and
skabl I t tfe SNAP, ududizg approptile pOlicics, ima4anS, iodw.    ctuurs aNd
ii.stimuional = eqZheWth,- ra t fivT-yo uphase will oqnd Ile wciaI and ef ie s1  rupMo:ttotbMe
S  h thrth The impl e    amtoi of miiLe0xs  cost reeovaa tnxed sm  ndW camn   lioy-bsed.
c3nseio#weja~d income jmnoing actil.a In buff  reas,   k wiLU also omplata the duwi don
a  dd,  laud  cwt issw  un tbe pratcted ares. Flnafly, h Tird p4ase wifl s      tlwa the
rcwm zaupmmlt afprw.*dW ame. iutdin* ftc p"MbK  of providi* cosoAs for their
opetoa atd zWzWuW 1 t  O           et. WGOa and the' t-ivae ws=,
s ecia pvartipadeei
T'ucfintpbutof tt pmram  f iprove ~the copuelty af IS Nxioual Ser'6=c fur ftWWti;dc4 
(S3RAP) to plan, imp!an and moaltor ea effwtive syc  of aomnongi pacted arw It wiil
s1rLzMtba   manawa& ,apit  and . nrAsU'cCux  of all the prtected areas, t aso will
~oswlidaft ft Ilegal and regulatory fiv  ok for gwtected reasa in;rerse the fl ncial capacity of
the SNAP  rough a Trust Fund maaged ty   inepodci fo=ida  on (FUN3ESN  Pl. Fialy,, it
*{ill ta&iteor tie efftecuiss of the mawa4pmew acOvktA,t. sad the biodivmzly in te pected areas
and itwill pjiot4ulaiabl, ncoe 4neg  aiv7ies tha culd contrib   o  te Wnserveflov ofihe
;rw4=4- aes =t4**bufer wras.
we will m .t e.our- sucA19 during, these first Tfva years ty enswig tia the laws on bidiviity ar4
D:E nftec d ares at#e9P&ft1 d by CoAg.t-ss UQlt!l JUe--3P.  2; tha2   EIA? stus 5  n
a.i,aoous &ny will be secuad thwii;g approorilqelaliian and admiikis.tibvactions. Wc will
swenhtkan SERNAP and have it opratig ut auate c             w       itrt conven to regula
staif at loas 3014 of thc personnel in sahe field and on kcy managment positions bhri undr dib phase I
-83 -



t  DE4acs   u(   nis b
of hth proposcd promn. Wo wili ome dhat the Managent conm nnum au fuUy opeaioial in at
las 14 nuas. W4 ounmlt to acW&sv& a&d susminizg the govenKexrs faaiug for SERNAP and *h
SNAP awcrdiPag w the Urpu esblUed in 4* Cmpmhansive Devolopwant Fruuewck far.Bolivia
and zn OYF am a      8vum=
For all issonS sunpozd abovw,o tbo  iistry of Susrabla DYwIopmwat and Panning commits itei f
to supporting t     te:ptjac  sustaimbiliy of " Wazona  PratcOod Aes Symui of boiiviO. and
confirms that  rageuacs mspoaible for ea;on of  bis projec:t wo tbe N?oaol Protacted Areas
S    e (ScrNAP) =d tbc Feoundatn for Dwelopmet of the Naional 1Protect=d Aroas ysrtt=
(1UN'Dfi1?P)
Youn si=rtly,
Ri:ld MacLe  Abaron
MINISTER OF SUSTA NASLE DEVLOPMENT AND PLANN1J(G
.tv. mc.L      5 4Cns* tOSZ . FwQ- Pi Smu;  (t 2     o   3Jo.a-a"u a257.caa., z2t*a '
-84 -



Additional
Annex No.: 17
Principles and Guidelines for Population Issues Management in Protected Areas
The purpose of the Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas Program is to ensure the conservation
and the sustainable management of representative ecosystems and biodiversity of Bolivia through a national system
of protected areas. The Program will be developed with participation of government at various levels, residents or
user communities of the protected areas, with NGOs and the private sector.
Taking into account the characteristics of the National System of Protected Areas of Bolivia, the applicable
legislation, together with the SNAP policies and management strategies, Bolivia has envisaged mechanisms that
guarantee the compatibility of the biodiversity conservation objectives with human presence within the
conservation units, in such a way that the process of creation, delimitation, categorization, zoning and preparation
of management plans for the protected areas is based on the documented consultation and decision making with
the local population. Such participation ensures the feasibility of management in the Protected Area and its social
sustainability.
The Program will seek to harmonize the practices of resident and user communities in each protected area with the
conservation of ecosystems. However, in case of exceptional, unavoidable situations that might require
displacement affecting populations within the PAs, concerted strategies will be established aiming at the resolution
of these conflicts without affecting the rights of the population while ensuring the objectives of the Protected Area,
in the context of the policies established in the present document and the applicable national legislation.
When based on this Annex, unless otherwise required by a different context, the terms defined in the SERNAP
GEF Grant Agreement will bear the meanings herein set forth.
Principles
Minimizing Population Displacement
Population displacement is not foreseen and shall be avoided in the plans designed for each Protected Area. In this
context, the practices of the resident or user communities of the Area will be studied in order to identify the type of
relation existing between the natural and social environments. When practices or behaviors that negatively affect
the ecosystem are identified, programs will be designed to modify these. Those behaviors and practices that are
harmonious with the PA ecosystems will be encouraged through specific programs.
In the event that a specific ecosystem is severely exposed, whether as a result of its fragility, limited capacity to
receive human settlements, or when the system is particularly important for preservation purposes, the possibility
of limiting access to the ecosystem or to the use of its resources will be analyzed. The decision to displace the
population will be taken only as a last resort. In this way, the involuntary displacement of the population will be
avoided and will take place only when absolutely necessary.
Consultation and Participation
When access to or use of resources must be limited, or the population moved to other areas, a Socio-Economic
Impact Management Plan or a Resettlement Plan shall be designed, in consultation with the affected people,
resettlees and potential host populations. Each Plan will be implemented with the participation of the affected
people.
- 85 -



Re-establishing Previous Socio-economic Conditions
The aim of the Resettlement and Socio-Economic Impact Management Plans is to re-establish the socio-economic
conditions of the population displaced or affected by the use restrictions imposed, and whenever possible, to try to
improve those conditions.
Respectfor Cultural Standards
The cultural, social, economic rights of the indigenous peoples that live in the Bolivian territory are recognized,
respected and protected. Consequently, Resettlement Plans and Socio-Economic Impact Management Plans
involving indigenous people will be designed and carried out respecting the cultural standards of the affected
people, resettlees and host populations.
Target Population of this Policy Framework
This policy framework shall apply to all those persons who as a result of the Program for the Sustainability of the
National System of Protected Areas or any of its subprojects:
* must be displaced from their place of residency
* are subject to limitation of the use of resources needed for their subsistence
* suffer negative effects on the means of subsistence or productive activities
* are isolated from their neighbors and disconnected from their social networks.
The absence of title deeds for the property affected should not be an obstacle for the inclusion of affected people in
the Resettlement Plans.
The Framework will not apply to persons who carry out activities or actions classified as offenses according to
applicable national laws.
Determining Population Displacement or Restriction of Use or Access
The PA Management Plans will include a diagnostic of the population living in the PA and the PA zoning,
including use restrictions. These Plans would determine the mechanisms and initiatives that will be used to achieve
the harmonization between biodiversity conservation and the human presence in the PAs. These plans, as well as
the specific study on the characteristics, customs and behaviors of the population inhabiting and/or using the
Protected Area, will serve as a basis to determiine whether or not there is a need for population displacement or
restriction to the access or use of certain natural resources.
Procedure for Resettlement and Re-establishment of Initial Socio-economic Conditions
Once the need to displace the population or limit the use of, or access to, specific resources is confirmed, the
following activities will be carried out:
Census and Socio-economic and Cultural Study
A census and a detailed socio-economic study of the affected population will be carried out, including information
about the demographic characteristics (number of people, sex, age), social information (kinship, type of family or
social unit, educational level, occupation, workplace) and economic informnation (income source and level). The
social organization and the cultural features of the population will also be analyzed.
- 86 -



Inventory of Land Holdings and Improvements
An inventory of the property of the potential resettlees will be made at the level of affected land holding, including
existing improvements (productive and non productive), and a description of the characteristics and the type of
holding.
Identification of Impacts Caused by Displacement or Limitation of the Use or Access to Resources
Based on the socio-economic characteristics of the population to be displaced or subject to the limitation of use or
access to specific resources, the socio-economic impacts faced as a result of these actions will be identified (for
example: loss of housing, income and its sources, access to public and social services, changes in family and social
organization, etc.).
Determining Impact Prevention, Mitigation and Compensation Alternatives and Eligibility Criteria
According to the type of impact faced and the socio-economic and cultural characteristics of the population,
alternatives will be determined for resettlement or to manage the impacts caused by the limitation of the use of or
access to resources. These alternatives will be identified with the participation of the persons affected.
For the resettlement of rural population whose livelihood depends on the land, land plots will be provided in a
location and of a quality appropriate for the development of productive activities and the access to services. The
lack of legal title to the property affected will not be an obstacle to benefit from a solution that will allow the
resettlees to at least re-establish their initial socio-economic conditions.
In the case of impacts caused by the limitation of the access to or use of determined resources, production
alternatives will be identified so that the population affected may re-establish or improve their initial
socio-economic conditions.
For each alternative solution, both in the case of resettlement as well as mitigation and compensation of the
impacts caused by the limitation of the access to or use of resources, eligibility criteria will be determined. These
criteria will be validated with the affected people. Acceptance, together with the type of solution offered, will be
recorded in a signed document.
Preparation of Resettlement or Socio-Economic Impact Management Plans
To plan the implementation of the alternatives identified, Resettlement Plans will be prepared for the displaced
persons and Socio-Economic Impact Management Plans for those who are not to be displaced but who are subject
to the restriction or limitation of the use of, or access to, determined resources.
Specific Resettlement Plans shall include the following:
*   Location and description of the Protected Area
*   Specific location of the area to which the population is to be displaced and reasons for displacement
*   Results of the socio-economic and cultural assessment of the displaced population
*   Identification and analysis of the impacts faced by the displaced population
*   Solution alternatives based on the type of impact caused and the characteristics of the population
*   Applicable legal framework
*   Eligibility criteria for each solution alternative
*   Measures to prevent new settlers from entering the restricted area
*   Information and consultation program
*   Land acquisition or replacement program
*   Housing, infrastructure and communal equipment construction or replacement program, if applicable
*   Social and economic program for the re-establishment or improvement of income levels, and economic and
social networks
- 87 -



*   Organic structure responsible for plan implementation
*   Human and physical resources required for plan implementation
*   Budget
*   Time schedule
*   Tracking and monitoring system
*   Evaluation system
The Socio-Economic Impact Management Plans to address the restrictions of access or use of specific resources
shall include the following:
*   Location and description of the Protected Area
*   Specific location of the area in which use of, or access to, resources shall be limited and location of the
population who utilizes said resources
*   Description of the resources or areas where access to, or use of, will be limited
*   Reasons for limiting the access to, or use of, these resources
*   Results of the socio-economic and cultural assessment of the population affected by the limitation of the access
to, or use of, the resources
*   Identification and analysis of the impacts caused by the limitation of the access to or use of the resources
* Solution alternatives based on the type of impact caused and the characteristics of the population
*   Applicable legal framework
* Eligibility criteria for each solution alternative
*   Measures to prevent use of, or access to, restricted resources by other population groups
*   Information and consultation program
* Program aimed at developing alternative productive activities to re-establish or improve income levels and
economic networks
*   Organic structure responsible for plan implementation
*   Human and physical resources required for plan implementation
*   Budget
*   Time schedule
*   Tracking and monitoring system
*   Evaluation system
- 88 -



Participation and Consultation
Residents and user communities in the Protected Areas will participate in the process of determining the need for
population displacement or limitation of the use of, or access to, specific resources, the studies to be carried out to
identify altemative solutions, and the preparation and implementation of the plans. Participation and Consultation
shall be channeled through the Management Councils.
Institutional Framework and Responsibilities
SERNAP will be in charge of planning, coordinating and monitoring the treatment of population issues in
protected areas, in the context of PA management in Bolivia. Other government agencies and NGOs, within the
framework of their institutional responsibilities will be in charge of implementing the processes described above, in
the context of applicable Bolivian legislation.
The institutional strengthening component of Phase II of the Program will include training and technical
assistance for the personnel responsible for developing these activities.
The Resettlement and Socio-Economic Impact Management Plans for specific PAs will be prepared in line with
SERNAP's planning policy, which includes the following:
*   Master Plan
*   Protected Area Management Plan
*   Protected Area Annual Operating Plan
The Resettlement Plans and Socio-Economic Impact Management Plans prepared for specific PAs will be
submitted to the non-objection of the World Bank under the GEF Project.
Financing of Resettlement and Socio-Economic Impact Management Plans
SERNAP will coordinate with the responsible governmental agencies and Ministries to secure the resources
required to implement these plans.
- 89 -



Additional
Annex No.: 18
Priority Protected Areas Supported by the GEF
Criteria for Selection of Priority Protected Areas
Ten protected areas were chosen to be financed by the GEF using criteria related to biodiversity characteristics and
SNAP priorities. All of the protected areas in the national system was ranked based on each of the following
criteria:
1.  Financing needs: from low need (several funding sources) to very high need (no funding available).
2.  Long-term funding potential: from low (very high potential) to very high (unlikely).
3.  Planning needs: from low (there is a management plan) to very high (no management plan and no funding
available to prepare a management plan).
4.  Biodiversity representativity: from low (ecosystems widely represented in SNAP) to very high (unique values
that are not represented elsewhere).
5.  Participatory management potential: from low (little interest and weak institutions) to very high (strong
interest, participation experience, and strong local capacity).
6.  Sustainable use potential: from low (unlikely) to very high (very likely).
Table I is a decision matrix which shows the results of the application of these criteria. The first 10 protected areas
(in bold) were chosen for GEF support.
Table 1: Criteria Utilized and Decis ion-Making Matrix for A.rea Selection
Fim ci d                  Flanni., need,s    comple-   PatnicipaTy nomem.t potential
Laug-tee,,    ia,pLetent.   atenttny
fumding  management       amefo,tue co-admonis, utmiagement otherlocul Sustainable
operations  investment  potential    pa  ionmg    SNAP    tration    council   actos,   use potential TOTAL
Criteria#:    I     2        3        4        5        6        7         8        9        1 0
Kaa - ly dd Gna Clae     2        4        3        3         1        4        4        4        4        4        33
El Palmar                4        4        2        _        4         4        3        4        4        3        32
EstelMda Bbld d4elSemi   4        4        3        4         I        3        2        4        2        4        3 1
Pla [Ass                 4        4        3        3         I        2        2        4        4        4        31
Tatnro                   4        4        3        4                  4        2        4        3        3        31
SanMatis                 4        4        2        -        4         3        2        3        4        3        29
Otuqlah                  4        4        2        -        4         3        4        2        3        2        28
EduardeAvaroa            4        3        3        4         2        4        I        1        3        3        28
Coedlim de Sawa          4        4        2         .        3        2        3        3        2        2        2S
Apolaeombe               4        4        3        4         -        2        I        I        I        4        24
Agsmaue                  3        3        2        -        2         3        3        2        3        2        23
Isiboo Secure            3        3        2                   1      2        4        2        2        4        23
Mannsip,iHVh             3        3        2                 2         4        2        2        2        2        22
Tasql                   2         2        2        3        I        3        4         1        I        2        21
cOtupen                  2        3        3                   1      2        I        I        4        3        20
CarUes  __               3        3        2                  4        2        I        2        I        2        20
Noel KemffMetcado        2        2        3        2         -        2        4        1        I        2        19
S*atms                   2        3        3        2         1        2        I        I        1        3        19
Arnbor6                  3        3        2        2    _             2        I        I        1        2        17
Madidi                   2        2        3                  1        2        I        1        1        2        15
Note: a score of" I" represents a low ranking while a score of "4" represents a high ranking.
The resulting set of 10 protected areas includes 3 areas that received some support from the GEF during the Pilot
GEF project. These areas were included for the following reasons: (i) Chaco: this area was created with GEF
financing but did not receive management support; (ii) Apolobamba: previously Ulla-Ulla, this area has increased
in size as a result of previous GEF support and thus its needs have increased; and (iii) Estacion Biologica del Beni:
this area is highly consolidated, with clear titling, boundaries, and buffer zone defined. It has the best potential for
-90 -



strengthening local management mechanisms and therefore will generate important lessons applicable to the entire
system. The resulting set included a wide ecoregional representation as well as diverse management categories.
Table 2 presents a summary diagnosis of current efforts, existence or lack of funding, and future needs to
consolidate management effectiveness for the entire National System of Protected Areas.
Summary Characteristics of Protected Areas to be Supported by the Project
A summary of key features of the areas to be supported by the GEF is presented in Table 3. A full description of
these 10 areas is in the project files and includes the following fields: legal foundation, management category, date
of creation, limits, infrastructure and equipment, personnel, population and social diagnosis, administration, status
of management councils, geomorphologic characteristics, climate, flora and vegetation, fauna, unique biodiversity
characteristics, threats, and list of organizations working in the area.
Financial Needs Diagnosis of the National System of Protected Areas
Table 4 presents a diagnosis of financial needs of the National System of Protected Areas during the project period
(2001-2005). Table 5 provides information on the GEF support provided to the 10 selected protected areas. The
figures presented in both Tables 4 and 5 represent base costs (excluding price and physical contingencies) and
therefore do not equal the figures presented in Annex 3 which represent total costs (including price and physical
contingencies).
Specific Activities within the SNAP to be financed by the Project
GEF funding under the Sustainability National System of Protected Areas Project will support and strengthen 10
protected areas by financing their recurrent costs as well as their investment costs. The following 10 management
areas were defined:
*   Natural Area of Integrated Management Apolobarnba;
*   National Park and Natural Area of Integrated Management Kaa-Iya from Gran Chaco;
*   El Palmar Natural Area of Integrated Management;
*   Otuquis National Park and Zone of Integrated Management;
*   San Matias Integrated Management of Natural Areas;
*   Toro Toro National Park;
*   Pilon Lajas Biosphere Natural Reserve and Indigenous Territory;
*   Sama Cordillera Biological Reserve;
*   Eduardo Avaroa National Park; and
-   Beni Biological Reserve.
The selected areas will be strengthened through the construction of camping grounds, translation centers,
transportation, boats and radio cornmunications as per the attached tables (Tables 6 and 7). Operational costs will
be covered by the Project in the selected protected areas and in the Central Unit. Again, the figures presented in
Tables 6 and 7 represent base and not total costs.
- 91 -



Table 2
GAP AWA1MI1 OF F4N4Ct  St.PFORT PWI*G~4NTCAPACgy. AND CLpNT  E~D'$
I    MiWA1* sjWr                           !, 1*10m
C ~~C~~CCACAA
*  *C4^i1lCC     . A -C~CCCC                  C  ^.C     rlC II
C~C~                 _     _  _   _   _          _   _    _     _   _    _                   s
A    A                  .A                                    AA    C  A A 
=_~~~~ _                       2 C   .-            -  ~ .       _    e _ __ _____
C..~~~j
_ _     _    _ _    _       K,t    |     |1     ^    ,    7  't      ^             1!!   7                   C   ! 5 ' F t     !  7    *    r
A?bv A.u    C        -    A    A               A       A      A                    A   A    A          A,      A
~~ _    _    _ _ _._                      ;1  4)                                                               gE            _    S    C
.              t E t        | .S     ~~~~i  .    .1i ?                 E X      C ,   S          E  C f   R    ?1   i *     "       5
*~~~~~~~~ A 
ML l=                                     f    '                         C  C .                             f          C _   _
*l AC4iCC>                                        C C.*D8  7                         C |Ct   C.                                   C F e b g FiF g 7 FI     
,~~~~~ ~                        ~~~ 1i 7s C1  f                                                       Cl  UP  1     1 --- - I - - -
  |         J  j w f 2  ! 2    f    i 1.  i ;r   B f i I J ,~    j   CI , 5         1 .       Cs   C. .'_4         '        f    C
rf  :| ^i v1  I i  |A |A  A  X| At  X  G P  V                                                            PhiA| A  A  A A f
4> 1~    *    Ai    S                                   'if                       f   P5   A    I  *  j -- - F f    A    C  C     f    >  A    ,f
92 
t~ ~       ~ ~~__ !  fl s:                                                      A S-        ft   t'$st'1*S,f   , Cl [Pf   C  Vf  7  : 
___ __                _                                            C     i4                          C    C   C'   C    1 '        C    C    C         S                          ^ffrtf
._          __       _      I      fi C         I      fJ                     C      I          _        l                               _ __    __
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A j      ~     .     . 4           A             C    hAA~ I    4  T A  _ :C
Ue ,_. f V-U ff  0    i    I    | ^I                                        C    C    C.   C    C    ,    4  | S   C    C.               4
L~ ~     ~       ~~~~~~~       ~~~ ~ ~ ~                                                                                                  C    ,|5{tffiC|i|7ffts|a| |f                              
if  }                 f         ' >7   1    1    s-i*rf  C              d C   C              f1    C  4 1          4 f             C+
I-. ),tCICCCC<C Pie                                    47Wf?>ftf *f
CCCC>CCC                                            WCCCCACC C:!6C CCCI CC
D  3Sfiw v lpw=                                     ?cC*ACCICSC  S:f fi~S~4iCC4fX:lfafifs
f~~~ ~~~~~~~L... P~C.C Ct.t          C f.Cf  X  r
-92-



Table 3: Summary of Key Features of the 10 Priority Protected Areas receiving GEF support.
Name and          Area (ha) Key Biological Features               Social Characteristics
Category
Kaa-lya del Gran   3,441,115  Only area protecting the Gran Chaco  Very few inhabitants inside the area but
Chaco                        ecoregion, including dry xerophytic forests, important human settlements in the
(National Park and          transitional seasonal Chaco forests, and  periphery, including indigenous groups
Integrated Natural           Chiquitano forests. Estimated 1,500 species (Guarani, Chiquitano). Large populations in
Area Management)             of plants (878 registered). Typical fauna of the buffer zone include Camiri (28,240), San
the Chaco (350 registered species).  Jose de Chiquitos (8,600), Charagua (2,500),
Boyuibe (2,415), and Cabezas (924).
Beni Biological     135,274   Seasonal floodplains, lakes and lagoons,   80 families inside the area (Chimanes), and
Station (Biosphere           with important relict populations of caoba.  20 Cambas communities. The buffer zone
Reserve)                     815 registered species of plants and 852 of  includes 13,000 people.
fauna (many more estimated).
Apolobamba         560,000   From 800 to 6,200 meters above sea level,  Aproximately 8,500 people inside the area in
(Integrated Natural          including transitional Andean ecosystems   34 communities (Aymara and Quechua)
Area Management)             up to snow-covered peaks, high altitude
lagoons, and puna. Estimated 1,500 species
of plants and 275 registered of fauna (more
estimated), including Vicuna.
Eduardo Avaroa     714,745   Very high Andean ecosystems (puna and    2,300 inhabitants of which 600 are located in
(Wildlife Reserve)           high-altitude andean desert) between 4,200  San Pablo de Lipez (Quechua)
and 6,000 meters above sea level.
Noteworthy species include the Yareta and
other plants adapted to very high altitude,
Vicuna and 3 species of Flamingoes.
Pil6n Lajas        400,000   Andean Yungas between 250 and 3,000   5,950 inhabitants in 9 centers of
(Biosphere Reserve           meters above sea level. Includes a series of colonization, including 27 indigenous
including Integrated         highly diverse ecosystems with very high   communities (Tsiman, Tacana, Moseten,
Natural Area                 endemism levels and biological richness.   Esse Eja). Strong colonization pressure in
Management and                                                    the buffer zone.
Indigenous Lands)
Cordillera de       108,500   Altitude gradient from 1,800 to 4,700  3,715 inhabitants inside the reserve in 21
Sama                         meters above sea level. Andean ecosystems communities (Quechua and Aymara)
(Wildlife Reserve)           including semi-arid Puna with transitional
zones to sub-humid forests. Numerous
species of conservation concern including
Condor, Puma, and Andean Cat.
Torotoro (National    16,447   Mountainous with deep canyons, in the dry  The local population is Charcas in origin
Park)                        deciduous forest ecoregion (pre-puna).  (Quechua), although there is a growing
Despite is threatened status, there are  migration from the Cochabamba region.
important populations of endemic species,  There are 1,200 people inside the reserve
including several birds and mammals.  (250 families) including the Torotoro
community.
San Matfas         2,918,500  It is in the confluence of the Chiquitando    There are 3,000 people inside the area (500
(Integrated Natural          Shield and the Chaco-Pantanal plains,  families) in small farms and communities.
Area Management)             including flooded areas and seasonal and
permanent wetlands. There are 20 different
vegetation units, with very high levels of
species richness because of the convergence
of bio-geographic provinces.
- 93 -



Otuquis            1,005,950  The only formation of the Pantanal  There are 18 small farms inside the area
(National Park and           ecoregion in Bolivia, with complex   (approximately 400 people). Due to the
Integrated Natural           seasonally flooded forests and permanent   strong seasonal flooding, the area of
Area Management)             wetlands. It is the best conserved example  influence is little settled.
of the Pantanal, with numerous species of
global concern.
El Palmar           59,484   Dry meso-thermic valleys with dry humid   Over 2,500 people inside the area, with
(Integrated Natural          mountainous forests, with 3 ecological  small and dispersed settlements in the buffer
Area Management)             floors (seasonal drought areas, shrubs, and  zone (1,300 people in Zudariez)
kewinha). Altitude between 1,000 and
3,200 meters above sea level. Very high
species richness and beta diversity,
including six CITES annex I species, and 2
relicts of the endemic palm Parajubae
torallvi.
Table 4. Financial Needs (2001 to 2005) of the National System of Protected Areas (base costs).
Personnel    Operating                 Management   Comite de
Protected Area             Costs         Costs      Investment      Plans        Gesti6n       Total
Estaci6n Biol6gica Beni      580,310       311,103      481,950        30,000        25,000     1,428,363
Apolobamba                   755,206       255,619      364,641             0        16,000     1,391,466
Kaa-lya del Chaco            775,950       294,733      550,439             0        12,000     1,633,122
Eduardo Avaroa               576,965       258,155     1,286,100        40,000       10,000    2,171,220
Torotoro                     385,996       101,588      535,890        40,000         2,500     1,065,974
Pil6n Lajas                  600,050       293,548      542,244             0         5,500     1,441,342
San Matias                   330,941        81,893      528,640         70,000       10,000     1,021,474
Sama                         331,441        81,893      395,760        60,000         6,000      875,094
Otuquis                      302,467       108,813      389,550         70,000        5,500      876,330
El Palmar                    295,337        99,965      311,650         60,000        4,200      771,152
Isiboro Secure               679,896       327,112      423,860         80,000        7,500     1,518,368
Madidi                       707,655       413,232     1,006,260        80,000       22,500    2,229,647
Noel Kempff Mercado         1,587,280      291,354     1,063,710            0            0     2,942,344
Ambor6                       678,185       244,138      604,290         60,000        5,000     1,591,613
Cotapata                     362,801       168,559     1,070,100        50,000        2,500     1,653,960
Carrasco                     574,851       290,143     1,027,080        60,000        5,500     1,957,574
Tariquia                     461,416       172,742     1,555,450            0         7,500    2,197,108
Manuripi Heath               482,985       165,559      472,980         60,000        4,900     1,186,424
Sajama                       362,801       114,977      706,260         60,000        5,000     1,249,038
Aguarague                    275,478        99,965      311,650         60,000        4,900      751,993
TOTAL                      11,108,015    4,175,091    13,628,504       880,000      162,000    29,953,610
- 94 -



Table 5. GEF Support to be Provided to the 10 Selected Protected Areas (base costs).
Personnel          Operating                           Management         Conmit de
Protected Area                         Costs               Costs           Investment           Plans            Gesti6n             Total
E.B. Beni
Total Requirements                        580,310            311,103            481,950            30,000             25,000          1,428,363
Financed by GEF                            135,936           243,793            205,150                 0             16,550           601,429
percent financed by GEF                      23%                78/               43%                0%                66%               42%
Apolobamba
Total Requirements                        755,206            255,619            364,641                 0             16,000          1,391,466
Financed by GEF                           229,392            255,619            200,300                 0             11,000           696,311
percent financed by GEF                      30%/.             100%                55%                n.a               69%               50%
Chaco
Total Requirements                        775,950            294,733            550,439                 0             12,000          1,633,122
Financed by GEF                           273,144            294,733            222,900                 0             10,000           800,777
pecent ftnanced by GEF                       35%               IOD00%              40%/e              na.               83%               49%/o
Eduardo Avaroa
Total Requimrements                       576,965            258,155           1,286,100           40,000             10,000          2,171,220
Financed by GEF                           192,432            258,155            115,050                 0             10,000           575,637
percent financedby GEF                       33%/6             100%/                9%                0%/0             100%               27%
Toro Toro
Total Requirements                        385,996             101,588           535,890            40,000              2,500          1,065,974
Financed by GEF                           132,792             101,588           156,750                 0              2,500           393,630
percent fmancedby GEF                        34%               100%                29%/                0%              100%               370/o
Pllon Lajas
Total Requirements                        600,050            293,548            542,244                 0              5,500          1,441,342
Financed by GEF                           257,256            293,548            169,850                 0              5,500           726,154
percent fnanced by GEF                       43%               100%                31%                0%               100%               50%
San Matias
Total Requirements                        330,941              81,893           528,640             70,000            10,000          1,021,474
Financed by GEF                           132,792             81,893            173,350                 0             10,000           398,035
percent ftnanced by GEF                      40%                100%               33%                00/,             100%               390%
Sams
Total Requirements                        331,441             81,893            395,760             60,000             6,000           875,094
Fminced by GEF                             115,800            81,893            149,700             60,000             6,000           413,393
percent fnanced by GEF                       35%                100%               38%               100%              100%               47%
Otuqus.
Total Requirements                        302,467             108,813           389,550             70,000             5,500           876,330
Financed by GEF                           132,792             108,8133          194,100             60,000             5,500           501,205
percent fmanced by GEF                       44%               100%                50%                86%              100%               57%
ElPalmar
Total Requirements                        295,337             99,965            311,650             60,000             4,200           771,152
Fianced by GEF                             115,800            99,965            111,700             60,000             4,200           391,665
percent futnced by GEF                       391/o              100%               36%               100%              100%               51%
TOTAL REQUIRED                            4,934,664           1,887,310         5,386,864           370,000             96,700         12,675,538
TOTALGEF                                   1,718,136          1,820,000         1,698,850           180,000             81,250         5,498,236
PERCENT GEF                                    35%                96%                32%               491%               84%              43%
- 95 -



Table 6: Investments in the 10 Selected Protected Areas and the SERNAP central unit (US$ base costs).
InterpreL            Motor-               Radio   Computers             Generators
Protected area   Camps       Centers    Tracks    cycles    Bouts    Equip.   and Faxes    GPS       (solar &   Pumps      Signs     TOTAL
__ _                              elec.)
E.B. Beni         72,000     55,000    20,000    27,000     10,400    6,000     5,000       600       3,600      3,000     2,550     205,150
Apolobamba       61,000      55,000    20,000    31,500     5,200    11,800     8,000        0        6,000       0        1,800     200,300
Chaco             78,000     55,000    20,000     31,500      0       19,600    7,500      1,800      6,600      500       2,400     222,900
Eduardo Avaroa    3,000      55,000    20,000    27,000       0         0       3,000      1,200      3,600       0        2,250     115,050
Torotoro          61,000     55,000    20,000     9,000       0       7,000     2,500       600         0         0        1,650     156,750
Pil6n Lajas       36,000     55,000    20,000    27,000     15,600    5,400     5,000      1,200      2,400       0        2,250     169,850
San Matias       97,000        0       20,000     18,000    15,600    7,400     5,500      1,200      5,400      1,000     2,250     173,350
Sama              78,000       0       20,000     18,000      0       12,800    7,500       600       9,600      2,000     1,200     149,700
Otuquis           97,000       0       40,000     18,000    15,600    7,400     5,500      1,200      5,400      1,000     3,000     194,100
El Palmar        61,000        0       20,000     13,500      0       4,000     5,500       600       3,600      500       3,000     111,700
Central Unit                           70,000                                   41,500  I111,500
TOTAL            644,000    330,000   290,000   220,500    62,400    81,400    55,000      9,000     46,200      8,000    22,350    1,810,350
Table 7: Personnel and Operating Expenses Covered by the Project (total person years and US$ base costs).
Head of                    Adnainistra-    Admin.          Total       Operating
Protected Area               Director      Protection    Park Guards       ters        Assistants    Personnel      Expenses       TOTAL
Costs
cost per person year:    20,064      9,600          4,248         9,600          3,600           -              -             -
E.B. Beni                        1             4             14             0              5           135,936       243,793       373,680
Apolobamba                       I            4             36             0              5          229,392        255,619        388,680
Chaco                            1             4             35             5              5          273,144        294,733       431,680
Eduardo Avaroa                   1             4             16             5              5           192,432       258,155        375,928
Torotoro                         I             5 _           1 1            0              5           132,792       101,588        302,528
Pi16n Lajas                      1             5             29             5              5           257,256       293,548        420,528
San Matias                       1             5             11             0              5           132,792        81,893        337,528
Sania                            1             5              7             0              5           115,800        81,893        297,528
Otuquis                          1             5             II            0              5           132,792       108,813        327,528
ElPalmar                         1             5              7             0              5           115,800       99,965         282,528
Central Unit                     0             0              0             0              0             0           250,000        250,000
UCP                              0             0              0             0              0             0           125,000        125,000
TOTAL PERSON YEARS              10             46            177            15            50              -             -
| TOTAL COSTS             |   200,640    |_441,600    |         751,896   144,000       180,000       1,718,136     2,195,000      3,913,136
- 96 -



Additional
Annex No.: 19
Management Effectiveness and Biodiversity Scorecard (Methodology and Baseline)
1.     Introduction
The project for Sustainability of Protected Areas in Bolivia financed by the World Bank/Global Environment
Facility (GEF) needs a mechanism to evaluate the appropriate management status of the protected areas that will
receive financial support.
With this purpose, an evaluation method has been applied with the aim to assess the current quality of the
management of the protected areas that will be supported by the project. This method will be applied every year to,
measure the achievements reached by the project in terms of attaining certain management standards. The
methodological concept was taken from the Parks in Peril Program of The Nature Conservancy, based on which
the management indicators were prepared and especially adapted to the Bolivian reality.
Four main management issues have been identified to assess the current quality of the management of the protected
areas that will be supported by the project. These administration issues are:
1. Basic biological diversity protection activities
2. Long-term management capacity
3. Funding
4. Social support
For these four issues, some indicators were identified in order to help evaluate the current level of management of
the protected areas that will be supported by the project.
I.    Methodology
The indicators that were used to measure the management quality are the following:
A.     Basic biological diversity protection activities
1. Infrastructure and equipment
2. Institutional capacity
3. Training
4. Land tenure
5. Threat analysis
6. Legal status
B.     Long-term management
1. Biological diversity protection plan
2. Inventory of biological diversity
3. Biological diversity monitoring plan
C.     Long-term funding
* Long-term financial plan for the protected area
D.     Participation of social groups
1. Management Council established and working
2. Community participation in the compatible use of the resources
3. Environmental education programs implemented
- 97 -



The scorecard is composed of five points that reflect a quality level for each indicator. The scorecard is the
following:
5      Excellent
4=    Very good
3=     Good
2-     Fair
1=     Poor
The result of this evaluation shows the level of the management quality of protected areas in Bolivia at the
beginning of the GEF/World Bank project "Achieving the Sustainability of Protected Areas in Bolivia." The
method will be applied again later in the project in order to measure the progress achieved.
Ill.    Scorecard
A. BASIC BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY PROTECTION ACTIVITIES
Indicator Al: Infrastructure and equipment
Description of the Indicator: Infrastructure refers to the buildings and equipment within the protected area
(including park ranger posts, radio systems, vehicles, demarcation of limits, signaling system, etc.), which are
necessary for the appropriate management of the protected area.
Score Reference:
5 =     The area has the complete infrastructure and necessary equipment for its basic management.
4 =     The area has most of the infrastructure and necessary equipment for its basic management.
3 =     The area has some infrastructure and equipment for its basic management, but there are
considerable gaps.
2 =     The area has little infrastructure and equipment for its basic management.
I =     The area does not have Infrastr cture for its basic management.
Indicator A2: Institutional capacity
Description of the indicator: The institutional capacity of the protected area refers to the existence of a manager
and operative staffthat executes management actions in the protected area.
Score Reference:
5 =    There is a Manager and enough operafive staff to cover all the management needs of the
protected area.
4 =    There is a Manager and somie operative staff, but it is insufficient to cover all the
management needs of the protected area.
3 =    There is a Manager and appropriate operative staff to cover only some management activities.
2 =    There is a Manager with little operative staff that is unable to execute even basic management
actions.
1 =    There are no personnel.
- 98 -



Indicator A3: Training
Description of the Indicator: The personnel's presence in the protected area is not enough by itself. The personnel
of a protected area should also have the necessary capacity to fulfill his or her management responsibilities.
Score Reference:
5 =     Training needs have been identified and a regular training program has begun.
4 =     Training needs have been identified and some basic courses have been imparted.
3 =     Training needs have been identified, but the courses have not yet begun.
2 =     Training needs are in the process of being identified.
There are not indications of the personnel's training needs.
Indicator A4: Land tenure
Description of the Indicator: Appropriate and correct information about the land tenure is crucial for the effective
management of protected areas.
Score Reference:
5 =     The Manager has complete information about the land tenure and makes use of it.
4 =     The Manager has some information about the land tenure and makes use of it.
3 =     The Manager has some information about the land tenure, but does not make use of it.
2 =     There is inadequate access to the information about the land tenure.
1 =     It is not possible to obtain information about the land tenure from any source.
Indicator A5: Threat analysis
Description of the Indicator: A systematic analysis that identifies the threats to the resources, and also points out
their origins and proposes strategies to overcome them, is an essential management tool for the conservation of a
protected area.
Score Reference:
5       Threats are identified, classified and faced through management actions.
4 =     Threats are identified and classified and specific strategies are elaborated to approach the
most destructive threats.
3 =     A threat analysis has been carried out, but specific strategies have not yet been elaborated to
face them.
2 =     A threat analysis is in process.
A threat analysis does not exist.
Indicator A6: Legal status
Description of the Indicator: An official ordinance is a fundamental component of the long-term security of most of
protected areas, but many of the oldest ordinances contain vague information that weakens their capacity to protect
an area. Also, many times the "correct" borders of a protected area have not been officially approved or registered.
Some ordinances demarcate open polygons that do not accurately reflect the geographical area that needs to be
protected.
- 99 -



Score Reference:
5 =     The official declaration of the protected area was obtained at an appropriate level and its
borders are correctly demarcated.
4 =     The proposal for the official declaration of the protected area, including the correct
demarcation of its borders, was presented to pertinent authorities but a declaration has not
still been obtained.
3 =     The proposal for the declaration of the protected area, including the correct demarcation of
its borders, is being prepared.
2 =      There is an ordinance for the protected area, but its borders are not correctly demarcated.
I =     There is no ordinance for the protected area.
B. LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT
Indicator BI: Biological diversity protection plan
Description of the Indicator: The preparation and implementation of a biological diversity protection plan are
management decisions of great importance. This plan is a document that guides the medium-term protection of the
biological diversity of a protected area.
Score Reference:
5 =     A plan has been prepared and is being implemented.
4 =     A plan has been prepared but is not being implemented.
3 =   L The preparation of a plan is well advanced.
2=      The preparation of a plan has begun.
1=     The preparation of a plan has not yet begun.
Indicator B2: Inventory of biological diversity
Description of the Indicator: The management of protected areas must be based on an inventory of biological
diversity. However, there is often not enough available information for an efficient management of the protected
area.
Score Reference:
5 =     Scientific/research organizations, as well as scientists and researchers are coordinated to
develop an inventory of biological diversity based on conservation priorities.
4 =     The conservation objectives and the priorities for an inventory of biological diversity have
been identified, categorized and distributed; contact has been made with scientific/research
organizations to establish these priorities.
3 =     The conservation objectives and the priorities for an inventory of biological diversity are in
the process of being identified and categorized.
2 =     The conservation objectives and the priorities for an inventory of biological diversity are
known in general terms.
I =    The conservation objectives and the priorities for an inventory of biological diversity are
unknown.
- 100-



Indicator B3: Biological diversity monitoring plan
Description of the Indicator: The monitoring of biological diversity has as a main objective to have a better
understanding of the evolution of natural communities and species that receive protection due to their biological
importance in the protected area.
Score Reference:
5 =     There is timely information as a result of the monitoring analysis; this information is used
regularly for protection purposes.
4 =     The plan has been concluded and some variables related with the protection priorities are
being monitored.
3 =     Monitoring variables related with protection were identified.
2 =     Some basic information was gathered, but without a clear relation with the protection
priorities.
I =     There is no biological monitoring activity.
C. LONG-TERM FUNDING
Indicator Cl: Long-term financial plan for the protected area
Description of the Indicator: A long-term financial plan is a determinant component of a successful management
strategy for a protected area. The plan should identify a diverse funding basis that covers the activities of the basic
management of the area.
Score Reference:
5 =     The long-term financial plan has been completed; there are diverse financing sources and
mechanisms to cover the costs of the basic managernent of the protected area.
4 =     The long-term financial plan has been completed; recurrent and/or sustainable sources and
mechanisms to cover the costs of the basic management of the protected area are being
implemented.
3 -     The draft of the financial plan has been completed; recurrent and/or sustainable sources and
mechanisms to cover the costs of the basic management of the protected area have been
identified.
2 =     A financial plan is being prepared.
1 =     There are no indications neither of a financial plan nor of the diversification of financing
sources.
D. PARTICIPATION OF SOCIAL GROUPS
Indicator DI: Management Council established and woridug
Description of the Indicator: The Management Councils allow social groups interested in the protected area,
including the local communities, to participate in the management process of the protected area. The presence of a
Management Council indicates an openness of the area's management to incorporate and to approach the concerns
of those people interested and their relation with the management.
- 101 -



Score Reference:
5 =     The Management Council is established and is an active participant in the management
decisions of the protected area.
4 =     The Management Council includes the main people interested and occasionally participates
in management decisions of the area.
3 =     The main people interested have been identified; a Management Council has been formed.
2 =     The Management Council is being created; an analysis is being carried of the main people
interested in the area.
l =     The Management Council does not exist.
Indicator D2: Community participation in the compatible use of the resources
Description of the Indicator: In those protected areas with communities inside their boundaries or immediately
adjacent to them, the conservation of biological diversity depends on the communities' use of natural resources in a
way that is compatible with the biological diversity conservation goals for the protected area.
Score Reference:
5 =     Pilot projects for the compatible use of the resources are being implemented in cooperation
with community organizations.
4 =     Future pilot projects for the compatible use of the resources include community
organizations (or other interested people). These projects have been prepared, but are not yet
being implemented.
3 =     Pilot projects for the compatible use of the resources that are under preparation include
communities or individual residents.
2 =     The development of pilot projects for the compatible use of the resources is in process, but it
has not included the communities.
_       There is no development of pilot projects for the compatible use of the resources.
Indicator D3: Environmental education programs implemented
Description of the Indicator: Environmental education is a fundamental component of the management of
protected areas. The local support to the conservation objectives can depend on the communities' understanding of
these objectives. The environmental education program includes a wide range of activities. Many times, the
common denominator is a systematic explanation about the importance of the protected area and the rules and
regulations related with it.
Score Reference:
5 =     There is a fully implemented environmental education plan.
4 =     An environmnental education plan has been prepared but is not yet being implemented.
3 =     An environmental education plan is being prepared.
2 =     Necessary information is being gathered to prepare an environmental education plan.
1=      There are no indicators of a preparation of an environmental education plan.
IV.    PA Management Effectiveness: Baseline during project preparation.
- 102-



n 89   :0       ~~~> Indicator
t__                                             ISIBORO SECUtRE
_)     _       _~Q- _        4 _ _ _ _ s _ _ _ s  U.= MADIDI
8 5  _   w  _ _  _ _ > ^ W _ > > P     W .   ESTAION BIOL. BENI
i;                 .l8.    -ALA >, >    v   W > >  > > >  NOEL KEMPFF
o  v t   _ _  _ _ _ _ w s w _ s s S -4 s -    AMBORO
W  L R   w     w       CHACO
O :  _   w~ _ _    __  __  _s_  _COTAPATA
-O   - _        - _ _) _- _ _          CARRASCO
12% %   _  _ __   _ )L.J~ _ S          W W    PILON LAJAS
W         U,   W _-          W _. W _  ww_r  1:  W_ TARIQUIA
-n -   -  _  _ _   _~- _     ~*~- _ to _ _ s s    _ SAN MATIAS
-n   - _  _  _ ~    - _- t-    MANURIPI - HEATH
W W _  _   -_. W W _ww_w SAJAMA
t                 l_ tj  W W w     " w     W    ULLA ULLA
W  W                W w. Iw 4s1 U.) I  I to  wEDUARDO ABAROA
. lt  _ _  _ _ _ _      w _  _  W--I  I TORO TORO
-o 8   _  w    _  _ -  -  -  tL N t --  ELPALMAR
F. _- _   w __-~- _ _ s w to _ Lm s s     _  =CORDILLERA DE SAMA
b  -  - _  _ ~      - _  _- _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ OTUQUIS



Additional
Annex No.: 20
Description of FUNDESNAP
A: Background
In 1992 the National Environmental Fund (Fondo Nacional para el Medio Ambiente -- FONAMA) initiated the
establishment of the Fiduciary Account for the National Protected Areas System (Cuenta Fiduciaria para el
Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas - CF/SNAP). This account was created by FONAMA as an irrevocable
grant or trust under United States law, and its balance as at December 1999 was approximately US$5.6 million.
This account was funded by four donors: Canada, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States
(through the PL-480 Program). In late 1998, the fiduciary account obtained tax-exempt status under section (501)
(c) (4) of the United States Internal Revenue Service Code.
The account's Trustees are currently FONAMA and JP Morgan (also the asset manager). The interest income
generated by this account was intended to provide financial stability for the national system of protected areas by
financing the recurrent costs of individual protected areas. Unfortunately, because of administrative deficiencies in
FONAMA, the account has not disbursed funds as expected.
In mid-1999 the GOB decided to transform FONAMA into an intermediary between the demand and supply of
external financing. The accounts administered by FONAMA gradually are being transferred to different individual
managers, in close coordination with donors.
FONAMA's institutional transition, together with the creation of the National Protected Areas Service (SERNAP)
provided an opportunity to design a new management structure to allow the funds deposited at the CF/SNAP to
meet their original objectives.
B: Design and establishment of a financial management structure
SERNAP initiated a participatory process for the design and creation of a new financial management structure for
the national system of protected areas (SNAP). (While SERNAP played a key role in this process, it participated in
the Design Team on equal terms with other members.) A design team of more than 20 representatives from the
Government of Bolivia, Bolivian and international non-governmental organizations, academic institutions,
independent professionals, the private sector and donors were invited to discuss the fundamental features of an
instrument that could strengthen the financial sustainability of the national system of protected areas.
The design team held intensive discussions during the months of May and June 1999, which started out by
reviewing the experience gained through FONAMA, and the lessons learned and best practice identified in the
GEF Trust Fund Evaluation. After several meetings, consultations and reviews, the Design Team came up with a
final draft of the By-laws and regulations of the Foundation for the Development of the National System of
Protected Areas (Fundaci6n para el Desarrollo del Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas -- FUNDESNAP). The
main features of this institution are summarized below.
1. FUNDESNAP Status and Purpose
FUNDESNAP is a private non-profit organization legally established in La Paz, Bolivia since December 02, 1999
and recognized in April 07, 2000. Its by-laws and other internal regulations (Estatutos, Reglamento and Manual
Operativo) are governed by the Bolivian Civil Code and other applicable national legislation.
The main purpose of FUNDESNAP is to contribute to the development and sustainability of the SNAP through
fund raising and financial management of resources aimed at executing SNAP programs, projects and activities,
with the involvement of various sectors of Bolivian society. The beneficiaries of FUNDESNAP are the projects and
activities set forth by the authority for the administration of protected areas (SERNAP) and other entities that
implement projects and programs in the framework of the policies and priorities of the SNAP.
FUNDESNAP is operationally linked to SERNAP, but as a private foundation it is not subsidiary to the
Govemment. Moreover, FUNDESNAP is not a policy-making organization. Finally, the relations between
-104 -



FUNDESNAP and SERNAP are governed by an agreement which clearly establishes their respective roles and
responsibilities, and transparent procedures for the disbursement of SNAP funds. These features should contribute
to reduce FUNDESNAP exposure to the risk of political interference.
3. Governance
FUNDESNAP is govemed by an Assembly of Founders and a Board of Directors. The Assembly , meets annually
to elect Board members, receive and approve the annual report, and hear reports from the intemal auditor. This is
a representative body of 9 members, 3 of which from govemment agencies, 2 from the donor community, and 4
members representing respectively the NGO community, the academia, the PA management councils, and the
business community
FUNDESNAP Board of Directors is the normative body in charge of defining the general policies of the
Foundation and, as its maximum authority, controls, manages and represents the Foundation. The Board is
composed by 7 members serving in their personal capacity. Only one member of the Board can be a civil servant
or public officer, at any time, with the exception of university docents.
The Executive Director is responsible for the administration, legal representation and executive operation of
FUNDESNAP, and serves as the Secretary to the Board of Directors.
4. Capitalization
FUNDESNAP has been designed to manage several accounts simultaneously, one of which is a Trust Fund (TF) to
finance the recurrent costs of the protected areas of Bolivia. As a result of the preparation of this project, the GOB
agreed to transfer the CF/SNAP currently managed by FONAMA to the TF account administered by
FUNDESNAP.
The Governments of Switzerland and the United Kingdom, together with the Bolivia and United States
Governments acting through the PL-480 Secretariat, have agreed to break the CF/SNAP established at JP Morgan
and transfer the funds to the protected areas TF (approximately US$4.6 million). (The Govemment of Canada has
chosen to withdraw its contribution to the CF/SNAP; about US$ 1.0 million in principal and accrued interest.) The
TF will have sub-accounts for each donor (including the GEF contribution) but will have a common Asset
Manager and common rules for the use of these funds. To this purpose, donors have agreed to be bound by
common clauses established in the FUNDESNAP-GEF Trust Agreement through separate Memoranda of
Understanding.
In addition to the TF account, FUNDESNAP can also manage other types of funds for donors who might be
unable to devote resources to endowment funds, but who are willing to finance recurrent costs and/or investments
in the protected areas of Bolivia. In these cases, FUNDESNAP provides the administrative services and charges
cost-based fees.
FUINDESNAP TF income is estimated based on an investment plan contemplating a 6.5% annual net return and
additional endowment resources of US$1.0 million per year during the five years of the project. FUNDESNAP
disbursements from the Trust Fund income will be used to finance primarily the recurrent costs of the management
of the 10 priority PAs supported by GEF. The recurrent costs for other areas would be progressively covered, as
additional funds are raised by FUNDESNAP.
5. Funding the SNAP
FUNDESNAP is responsible for managing and disbursing financial resources to cover SNAP programs, projects
and activities, with a primary focus on the management of protected areas. These disbursements will be based on
an agreed annual work program, and in accordance with FUNDESNAP funding procedures, described in detail in
its Operational Manual (available in Project files). SERNAP will be responsible for executing the agreed protection
and conservation work programs within protected areas, either directly or through partner executing agents such as
NGOs, local community organizations, and management councils. To ensure smooth and flexible administration of
recurrent cost funding, the rules governing the public-private partnership between SERNAP and FUNDESNAP
were developed during project preparation and defined in an "umbrella" agreement (Acuerdo de Implementaci6n-
available in Project Files)
- 105 -



C: Project Implementation: the SNAP Trust Fund
Under the proposed program, FUNDESNAP will manage the SNAP Trust Fund (TF), increase its principal
through fund-raising initiatives, and disburse the income generated from the Trust Fund and other endowments to
support the SNAP. The initial priority for the TF will be to cover the recurrent costs of the 10 priority areas
supported by GEF for the program's first phase; the remaining protected areas will be financed as resources become
available.
FUNDESNAP will be responsible for establishing the TF account, ensure sound investment of the TF endowment,
disburse funds for eligible activities, establish reliable accounting procedures and financial controls for recipients
of TF resources, and evaluate the performance of the Asset Manager.
The Board will be responsible for the general oversight of the TF, including the following activities:
*   Approving an Operational Manual with an annex for TF Operations
*   Developing and implementing a fundraising strategy for TF
*   Approving the TF annual spending plan,
*   Overseeing the implementation of TF-funded activities
*   Selecting and supervising the TF extemal Asset Manager
*   Approving and revising periodically the TF investment policy guidelines
*   Selecting external auditors to evaluate the TF financial accounts and to conduct annual performance audits of
the TF Asset Manager
D: Investment and Endowment Management
The financing plan assumes that TF income would be managed prudently to ensure a stable flow of funding for TF
activities. To this end, sound investment and endowment management techniques would be employed, including:
1. Investment Management. To avoid low or negative investment returns on TF capital, FUNDESNAP has
adopted sound investment guidelines based on investment research drawn from current market information
and from other GEF-financed environmental funds. These guidelines have been developed with the support of
an expert financial advisor, and approved by the FUNDESNAP Board (available in project files).
2. Endowment Management. The annual amount of the TF income available for spending on project activities
would be determined by several endowment management rules designed to protect the endowment capital and
cope with potential shortfalls of investment income.
In order to minimize the risk and to benefit from a competitive selection process, FUNDESNAP will recruit a
professional Asset Manager to manage the TF principal. The Asset Manager will make day-to-day investment
decisions within the investment guidelines established by the Board. The selection and hiring of an Asset Manager
following IDA procurement requirements is a condition for project effectiveness.
E: FUNDESNAP Operations Management
FUNDESNAP management of the TF will be guided by the FUNDESNAP Operational Manual and the Trust Fund
Annex to the Operational Manual, which will specifically address TF operations. A maximum of 10% of the
annual income of the TF will be allocated for FUNDESNAP administrative expenses, according to an annual
budget to be approved by the Board of Directors and submitted to IDA for non-objection. FUNDESNAP personnel
will be kept to a minimum, including: (i) the Executive Director; (i) Administration and Finances Director; (iii)
Controller; (iv) Legal Advisor; (v) Technical Specialist (environmental planning and management); and (vi)
Administrative Assistant.
The Operational Manual and the Trust Fund Annex are available in Project Files and include
I. TF objectives
2. Description of FUNDESNAP operational structure;
3. Funding sources;
4. Definition of eligible expenditures and detailed spending rules;
- 106 -



5. Description of the project/funding cycle and institutional responsibilities;
6. Operating procedures for disbursements;
7. Procurement rules;
8. Guidelines for contracting an Asset Manager as well as detailed investment guidelines for the TF;
9. Auditing, financial recording and reporting procedures; and
10. Guidelines on monitoring and evaluation of TF supported activities.
F: TF Funding Cycle
Funding for annual work programs (Planes Operativos Anuales -- POAs) in protected areas will be provided by the
TF in accordance with an agreed funding cycle, for eligible expenses approved by the FUNDESNAP Board of
Directors. The main steps of this annual cycle include: (i) communication in July by FUNDESNAP to SERNAP of
the financial envelope available for PA recurrent cost funding for the next calendar year; (ii) the presentation of the
POAs for the next calendar year and justification of current year expenditures (except for the first year of the cycle,
when only the POA will be required) by SERNAP to the FUNDESNAP Board of Directors by September; (iii) the
preparation of FUNDESNAP annual operational budget by October; (iv) obtaining IDA non-objection to these
proposals by late November; (v) disbursement to SERNAP of the total annual allocation by early January. The
funding provided by FUNDESNAP for the recurrent costs will be allocated by SERNAP in an annual basis to the
PAs, and the Park directors will have full budgetary and procurement authority and accountability over these
funds, following Bank rules for the different thresholds.
- 107 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30583
BOUVIA
BOLIVIAN NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS OVERLAYED WITH ECOREGIONS THREAT
PROTECTED AREAS:
E. Federico Romon         12. Carrasco
F1 .    RELATIVELY INTACT                          2. Manuripi Heoth          13. Amboro
3. Madre de Dios          14. San Mahas
RELATIVELY STABLE                         4. Madidi                  15. Sajama o)   DEPARTMENTCAPITALS
5. Estacion Biologica del Beni  16. Toro Toro              *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
VULNERABLE                    ~~~~~~6.Noel Kempff Mercado  17. El Palmar
ENDANGERED                                7. Ulbo Ullo               18. Kao-lyo del Gran Choco             DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
S. Pilon Lajas            19. Otuquis-Tucovaco
_ CRITICAL                                9. Cotapato                20. Eduordo Avaroa            -  . -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
10. Isiboro Secure         21. TariquM i
11. Tunori                 22. Sama Biological Reserv
680                       66_                       640                       620
BRAZI L                                                                                                                                  BRAZIL
PERU
I   I   I        I                         1                         1t                        1~~~~~~~~~~~    -
BOLIVIA
12' -*LPu                      -
v,                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL    12E0
-120                                                                                                                                                       J
600
14' 
P E~ ~ ~~8                                60.,esm,t roctn.o iC  onais
OOTO                                                PARAGUAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANA






IBRD 30584
BOUVIA
PROTECTED AREAS AND POPULATION DENSITY 2000
PROTECTED AREAS:
POPUJLATION DENSITY                             1. Federico Roman           12. Corrosco
lpersons/sq. km)                                2.  enuripi Heaomo          13. Amboro
LOW 1<25)                                     3. Modre de Dios             14. Son Motias                           DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
4. madidi                   15S. Solomo
*     MEDIUM (25-100)                               5. Estocion Biologico del Beni  16. Toro Toro                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
HIGH ~I0)6. Noel Kempff Mercodo                                            17. El Polmar
_'1001                                   7. UIGcs Ullo               18. Koo-lyo del Gron Chaco                 DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
S. Pilon Laojs              19. Otuquis-Tucovoco             -  *      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
9. Cotopoto                 20. Eduordo AvarcoaITRAONLBUDIE
10. Isiboro Secure           21. Toriquio
11. Tunori                   22. Som. Biolopico Reserve
I                           I       /I                                              I_
68                          66_                          640                        620
-10         B BRAZI L                                                                                                                                           BRAZIL
PERU
BOLIVIA   I
La Paz
\Cobila                BARAZIL.1 2
R l 2 tACllC dHLE!  -             J
-12                                                                                                                              OCEA.. .#>  ........  .   }}
120    2>         /.                                                                                                             )/ -  .| ARGENTINA
6100
PERU -.1  4                                                          ri&                                                  )
ti 1 <''/ 4 +'tt''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'<   1\                     r                        '     <       2~~~~~~~~~~~0 0
SCHAQUSACA                                             PARAGUAY
,CH  ILE                                                                                                                     KILOM, seTERS3C 
>                 /,             t                          'i   /                          <~~~~~-          Thin mop wor poodraced by the Mop D.ngn U,,it ol The World Bank.
s  2^    j;   *  ^_s  ^_ZK ffi *  :                t               7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he boundori.,,colors.de,,or,inahr,losr no,ny oterinformation
M  I   "  .?    A  K Q  t N  I I 181 A                                      , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~shn, on d hin mop do noi Imply, on ib porl of The WorJd Book
t~~~~~~~~~*,,                                                           6r6p tany2 jagnkreern, on th cpbrleggal .Alas of any esrito,y,or any
JANUARY 2000






IBRD 30585
BOLIVIA
LEVEL OF POVERTY BY PROVINCE 1992 AND PROTECTED AREAS
.-  PROTECTED AREAS:
POVERTY 1%):                            .Fdeeo Roman              12. Carrosca
0-14                                 2. Manuripi Heath          13. Amboro
3. Madre de Dios           14. San Molias                               DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
j 14.1-28                            4. Madidi                  15. Sajama
5. Estocion Bioloagica del Beni 16. Toro Toro           6                NATIONAL CAPITAL
j  1 28.1-42                         6. Noel Kempff Mercado     17. El Palmor
42.1-56                              7. Ulla Ulla               1B. Kaa-lya del Gran Choco                    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
8  Pilon Lajas             19. Otuquis-Tucavoca
56.1-70                    ~~~9. Cotapato              20. Eduardo Avrora                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
10. Isiboro Secure          21. Tariquia
11. Tunari                  22.  Sama Bioloic  Reserve
o            BRAZI L                                                                                                     |                ,BRAZIL
PERU         ~      '.
BLVIA 
12.                                                              BRAZIL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  PC~C         ILE~ 
A ARGENTINA  TN
60'
14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
JANUARY 2000






IBRD 30586
BOLIVIA
PROTECTED AREAS AND ECOREGIONS
PROTFCTFD AREAS:
ECOREGIONS:                                                                    I. Federico Romcr        12. Carrosco
Andean Yu.gus Montone Forests    Chco                                       2. Mansr.pi Heath         13. Amboro
3. Madre de Dios         14. Son Matios
Beni Soaar as                      Ch,qu,tano Dry Forests                    4. Madidi                 15. Saoama
LI  Bol,ion Montane Diy Forests     F       Modeira/Tapajos Moist Forests           5. Estocion Bio ogica del Beni 16. Toro Toro
6. Noel Kempff Mercado   17. El Polmor
C~etrol Andeon Dy-/ Puna                 Pontanal                                  7. UllJa ll               18. Kaa-lya del Gron Choco
Southwest Amazon Moist Forests  S. Pilon Lajas           19. Otuquis-Tucovoco
L[        [Centrai Andean 0Loa     [77 S uthwestAmazonMoistForests                  9. Cotapata               20  Eduocrdo Avaroa
Central Andean WNet Puna                                                    10. Isiboro Secure         21. Toriquia
11. Tunori                22. Sama Biological Reserve
68'                6j     >                       64'                      620                     s   
B R A  Z I L           /                   }                                                                   L \_    .s          BRAZIL
    DEPARTMEN1 CAPITALS                   P
<2   /                                                                   Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOLIVIA)
NATIONAL CAPITALBOVA
NDO                           -. - / DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                             eL
-  . - ,tINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                 I           1
12~~ -
B  )2>< 4  RAZI [                  /  ( ( ARGENTINA r
P E~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ R                                                 A  Z I 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60-
*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
10  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
14'
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 
-22.                                                                                             S    100  1    2
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tc so  > h,mp oas produced by the Mop Design UrnS of The World fionk.|
I               i            ~~~~~~~~A R G EN T INA                                             Th \   howndonis colo rs doenoe mizoyntnots end orfy ehther information 
L=E             ~~~6 8~                  66                        \                       2           endorsement or Ccoeptoece of u cIh l,ooed on rri<  , r sn
JANUARY 2000



