                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank


                                                            Report No:ICR0000335


           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (TF-024704; TF-024707)

                                       ON A

           GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.80 MILLION
                         (US$ 9.83 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      AND A

           GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.10 MILLION
                         (US$ 5.17 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                      FOR THE




 SUSTAINABILITY OF THE NATIONAL SYSTEM OF PROTECTED AREAS IN
SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE NATIONAL
                   SYSTEM OF PROTECTED AREAS PROGRAM




                                  January 18, 2007




Sustainable Development Network
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 11/01/2000 )
                               Currency Unit = Boliviano
                               Boliviano 1.00 = US$ 0.16
                                    US$ 1.00 = Boliviano 6.32
                                       Fiscal Year
                                  January 1-December 31




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDF          Comprehensive Development Framework
CI           Conservation Interntional
FAN          Fundacion Amigos de la Naturaleza
FONAMA       National Environment Fund
FUNDESNAP Foundation for the Development of the National System of Protected Areas
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GTZ          German Technical Cooperation Agency
MSD          Ministry of Sustainable Development
PA           Protected Areas
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
SDR          Special Drawing Right
SERNAP       National Protected Areas Service
SFP          Strategic Financial Plan
SNAP         National System of Protected Areas
TCO          Original Communal Territory
WCS          World Conservation Society
WWF          World Wildlife Fund




        Vice President: Pamela Cox

      Country Director: Marcelo Giugale

       Sector Manager: Abel Mejia

   Project Team Leader: Gabriela Arcos

                                                       Bolivia
        Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas Project




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design.................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 15
9. Assessment of Risk to Global Environment Outcome ............................................. 26
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 27
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 30
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 33
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 35
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 40
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 41
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 43
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 48
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 51
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 54
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 55
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 56
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 57
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 68
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 72
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 73

1. Basic Information
                                                                  Sustainability of the
Country:              Bolivia              Project Name:          National System of
                                                                  Protected Areas Project

Project ID:           P060474              L/C/TF Number(s):      WBTF-24704,WBTF-
                                                                  24707
ICR Date:             01/23/2007           ICR Type:              Core ICR

Lending Instrument:   SIL                  Borrower:              GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                  BOLIVIA
Original GEF grant
amount                USD 15.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 14.5M

Environmental
Category:             B                    GEF Focal Area         B

Implementing Agencies

SERNAP
FUNDESNAP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

Government of Netherlands


2. Key Dates

     Process            Date           Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                            Date(s)
Concept Review: 10/10/1998        Effectiveness:     05/16/2001       04/02/2001
Appraisal:        02/28/2000      Restructuring(s):
Approval:         01/30/2001      Mid-term Review: 09/30/2005         08/11/2003
                                  Closing:           06/30/2006       06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome           Substantial
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory




                                          1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance          Indicators   QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                    No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                         No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

GEO rating before
Closing/Inactive status           Satisfactory


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                        41               41
Central government administration                                       58               58
Law and justice                                                          1                1
                                                          Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Law reform                                                 Secondary         Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                         Primary           Primary
Biodiversity                                               Primary           Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                    Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                             At ICR         At Approval
Vice President:                                          Pamela Cox        David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                        Marcelo Giugale   Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:                                          Abel Mejia        Maria Teresa Serra

Project Team Leader:                                     Gabriela Arcos    Elizabeth
                                                                           Monosowski
ICR Team Leader:                                         Gabriela Arcos

ICR Primary Author:                                      Andrea L. J.
                                                         Silverman




                                                2

6. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


By 1997 in Bolivia, policy measures had been successful in addressing problems of
hyperinflation and creating a stable economic environment. Nevertheless, the country
was still in crisis: economic growth was stagnant (1.7% annual growth), poverty
remained extremely high (81% in rural areas), the government continued to run
significant fiscal deficits in spite of austerity programs, and social unrest was a
continuing problem. In 1997 the Bolivian Government drew up a Five-Year National
Action Plan with the objective of reducing poverty through higher sustainable growth.
The Bank's 1998 Country Assistance Strategy was developed through a participatory
process and was specifically designed to support three of the four pillars of that Plan,
opportunity, equity and institutionalit. The 1998 CAS document review of recent Bank
operations noted that while they had been consistently rated satisfactory, there seemed to
be little impact on economic growth or poverty reduction, and the new CAS was
designed to address that failure.

In CAS discussions, the government indicated its interest in limiting Bank lending to
addressing the twin problems of economic growth and poverty reduction and requested
that environmental operations not be included in the lending program. At the same time,
however, representatives of other external assistance agencies explicitly requested the
Bank to stay involved in the sector, through its non-lending activities. Substantial
programs and commitment of resources to the National System of Protected Areas had
already been made (and continued to be made) by the German and Dutch cooperation
agencies and others. The Bolivia Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF)
paper, published in 1999, provided an agreed matrix of responsibilities among external
assistance agencies and government, identifying biodiversity conservation as a priority
for Bank/GEF support, to complement and link to German, Dutch, NGO and
Government efforts. GEF decided to build on the experience of the successful GEF
supported Biodiversity Conservation Project (Pilot Phase) and the successful efforts
supported by these other agencies to prepare a larger, follow-on operation, the
Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas Program. This program was
designed as a 15-year effort, divided into 3 five-year projects. The first project was
designed to help achieve the full implementation of the new Protected Areas Law (1992)
and the development of the relatively young institutions, including the National Protected
Areas Service (SERNAP - established in 1997) and the Foundation for the Development
of Protected Areas (FUNDESNAP - established 1999). FUNDESNAP is a private,
nonprofit corporation that was created to replace the ineffective government-managed
National Environment Fund (FONAMA) as the manager of a trust fund to finance the
operating costs of the system and the principle mechanism for achieving financial
sustainability of the system of protected areas. Related to the strengthening these
institutions, the 15-year program was designed to address the key threats to the
ecosystems identified in the first project, including: (i) lack of regulation of high impact



                                                  3

activities (e.g. logging, mining, agriculture, and hydrocarbon exploitation) in the parks:
(ii) lack of sustained financing to maintain management of protected areas; and (iii)
increasing, non-sustainable exploitation of park resources by communities located within
and outside the parks.

The proposed project was of high priority for GEF as it supported the objectives of the
GEF Operation Programs to conserve and provide in-situ protection of biodiversity in the
mountain ecosystems of the Andean region, and the forest ecosystems of the Andean
slopes, the Bolivian Amazon, and the Chaco region. Coming on the heels of the
successful Biodiversity Conservation Project, this program was an opportunity to
strengthen the management of 10 priority national protected areas in a way that would
substantially improve the protection of these ecosystems.

While the current operation was not explicitly mentioned in the CAS, it was
acknowledged to be consistent with and contributing to the objectives of the 3 pillars.
With regard to the opportunity pillar, the program would promote the sustainable use and
conservation of protected areas, which in the medium to long term would be a valuable
resource to both local communities and the country as a whole. With regard to the equity
pillar, the program would provide for technical assistance and investment to improve
incomes of local, poor communities in a way that is consistent with the sustainable use of
the resource. And, with regard to the institutionality pillar, the program gave priority to
making local park management processes more transparent and target driven.

Bolivia has one of the richest biological heritages worldwide. Both endemism and
species richness are high in Bolivia, much of which is associated with the existence of
numerous and varied eco-regions. Bolivia covers extensive areas of three out of five of
South America's most important bio-geographic regions: the Amazon; the Andean-
Patagonian association; and the Chaco. These eco-regions are under increasing pressure
from land use changes that are not necessarily ecologically sustainable.

The Government of Bolivia recognizes the communal rights of local people to the access
and use of PA natural resources to support their traditional lifestyles and therefore
adopted the principle of "parks with people." In order to address conflicts of interest,
protected areas will be demarcated, zoned and categorized through a participatory
planning process closely involving these communities. Therefore, the management of
protected areas becomes an opportunity to provide additional protection to traditional
lifestyles.

Although major advances in recent legislation created a number of useful instruments
for environmental management, further efforts were needed to establish a specific legal
framework to support the conservation of biodiversity and the integrity of the protected
areas. The passing of the Environmental Law of 1992 and its associated regulation for
protected areas had been an important step toward ensuring the effective management of
protected areas. The GOB was also making attempts to remove the legal contradictions
that undermine the integrity of protected areas.




                                               4

A major bottleneck to ensure the sustainability of protected areas was the shortage of
funding for recurrent costs. Although external resources had been consistently available
for environmental initiatives in Bolivia, poor donor coordination has led to a fragmented
approach, duplication of activities and an emphasis on investment costs. Furthermore, the
expansion of the number of protected areas was not accompanied by the government
budgets and other resources necessary to ensure their operation and
maintenance. The National Environmental Fund (FONAMA) was created in 1993 and
was intended to provide recurrent cost funding for the SNAP as complementary fiscal
contributions and had a specific account for protected areas, called the Fiduciary Account
or SNAP Account. Unfortunately, FONAMA became highly politicized and lacked
transparency, which caused it to quickly loose credibility. As a result, FONAMA failed
to mobilize or disburse sufficient capital to adequately manage the SNAP.

6.2 Original Global Environmental Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


       The Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas program was
       defined as a 15-year, 3 phase program. The purpose of the 15-year program was
       to ensure that representative ecosystems and biodiversity of Bolivia were
       conserved and sustainably managed through a national system of protected areas.
       The development objectives of the first phase of the program (2000-2006) were
       to ensure the sustainable management of the National System of Protected Areas
       (SNAP) by establishing and strengthening: (a) the legal, institutional and policy
       framework; (b) the management capacity at the protected areas and central levels;
       and (c) the SNAP financing mechanisms. Key indicators of program impact at
       the end of Phase 1 were defined as: (a) an efficient management system was to
       be in place for SNAP; (b) a long-term Master Plan was to be developed within an
       appropriate legal framework; (c) the functionality of 10 protected areas was to be
       achieved as measured by an increase in management effectiveness by 1.3 points
       on average and no PA less than 2 (based on the project's protected areas scorecard
       methodology); (d) operating Protected Area Management Councils were to have
       increased from 5 to 14; (e) SNAP Trust Fund (FUNDESNAP) was to have
       been fully operational and its capital endowment increased to at least US$15.0
       million, covering about 30% of SNAP recurring costs; (f) adequate
       legislation was to have been passed and is enforced to conserve biodiversity and
       protected areas within two years and a half of project effectiveness.

       Key performance indicators were established as follows:
       1. An efficient management system is established for the SNAP;
       2. A long-term Master Plan is developed within an appropriate legal framework;
       3. The functionality of 10 protected areas has been achieved as measured by an
       increase in management effectiveness by 1.5 points on average and no PA less
       than 2 (based on the project's protected areas scorecard methodology);
       4. Operating Protected Area Management Committees have increased from 5 to
       14;
       5. SNAP Trust Fund (FUNDESNAP) is fully operational and its capital
       endowment has increased to at least US$ 15.0 million;



                                              5

         6. Adequate legislation has been passed and is enforced to conserve biodiversity
         and protected areas within two years of project effectiveness.

6.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


Not applicable.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the GEO,
as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)


The primary target group identified in the PAD is a global beneficiary - with the global
community benefiting from improved conservation of Bolivia's biodiversity, through the
conservation of significant areas with high levels of endemism and species richness. The
project was also designed to benefit current and future generations of Bolivians as it was
to allow conservation of the natural heritage of the country, and with it cultural,
environmental, social and economic benefits coming from a well functioning system of
protected areas. Thirdly, the project was designed to benefit the poor communities
located within the 10 selected protected areas or their buffer zones, by helping to provide
additional sources of revenue for community members through direct employment within
the protected area and through investment in income-generating activities. Living within
the 10 selected Protected Areas are approximately 30,000 inhabitants, the majority of
whom belong to indigenous groups, such as Guarani, Chiquitano, Caimanes, Aymara,
Quechua, Siman, Tacana, Moseten, and Esse Eja. Another approximately 170,000
people are located in the buffer zones surrounding these Protected Areas, and in some
cases these individuals and communities constitute important sources of pressure on the
resources of the reserve.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


The five project components were:
Component 1. Institutional and Policy Development (US$6.59 million of which
US$2.79 million GEF). This component was to finance activities to strengthen
SERNAP's policy, planning and management capacities, including: a) the articulation of
a Master Plan for protected areas to serve as a guide for their re-definition and re-
categorization, and for implementing mechanisms for generating income; b) preparation
of a Strategic Plan covering institutional and financing issues, including a medium term
financing strategy for SNAP and c) strengthening the technical, management and
operational capacity of SERNAP


Component 2. Management of Priority Protected Areas (US$21.92 million of which
US$6.11 million GEF). This component was to finance activities to strengthen the
planning and management capacities in 10 priority protected areas. This was
to include: a) strengthening protected area management through partial financing of


                                                6

operational costs, infrastructure and equipment, and capacity development; b)preparation
and implementation of Management Plans for at least 3 protected areas and c)
strengthening local participation and inter-institutional coordination in those 10 areas.


Component 3. Legal and Regulatory Framework (US$0.57 million of which US$0.07
million GEF). This component was to support the preparation of a new Protected Areas
law and related laws and regulations.


Component 4. Sustainable Financing (US$9.78 million of which US$5.17 million
GEF). This component was to strengthen the financial capacity of SNAP by capitalizing
a trust fund account within the Foundation for the Development of the SNAP
(FUNDESNAP) to finance recurrent costs of managing protected areas. The target
would be a fund of a total of US$15 million, with US$5.17 provided by the project.


Component 5. Biodiversity Management and Monitoring in Protected Areas (US$4.83
million of which US$0.86 million GEF). The objective of this component was to
consolidate and complement previous and concurrent efforts to improve resource
management and monitoring in protected areas and their buffer zones in collaboration
with other external agencies and NGOs (GTZ, FAN, WWF, WCS, CI). The component
was to finance: (a) the development of models for biodiversity and natural resources
management in protected areas with the participation of selected communities; and (b)
monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity conservation through the design, piloting and
implementation of a SNAP monitoring system.

The implementation of each of these components was directly linked to the achievement
of the project objective of protecting valuable ecosystems, which were well represented
in the 10 selected protected areas addressed by the project.

6.6 Revised Components


Not applicable

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)


There were two amendments processed to the grant agreement (TF-242704) with
SERNAP which modified the financial structure originally agreed, however these
modifications did not significantly impact the achievement of the project global
objective.

The first amendment was signed on February 27, 2004, and reflected an agreement
reached with SERNAP to modify the sliding scale of financing of recurrent costs. This


                                               7

change took into consideration the difficulty of the Government of Bolivia and
FUNDESNAP to provide increasing levels of counterpart funds, given the fiscal crisis
within the Bolivian government and the relatively poor performance of the financial
markets which had reduced the earnings of FUNDESNAP during the previous three
years.

The second amendment, signed on September 24, 2004, increased to one hundred percent
(100%) the percentage of financing under all the expenditure categories. This was done
as part of the broad application of the new Country Financing Parameters to the entire
portfolio of Bolivian projects. With government's ongoing fiscal austerity program,
many project activities (including investments in infrastructure, purchase of equipment
and contracting of studies) were delayed for over a year (2003- 2004). With the increase
of the financing percentage to 100%, the implementation of these critical activities was
able to move ahead.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


Overall, the quality at entry of the project was Satisfactory. The design reflects an
innovative approach of simultaneously addressing global conservation objectives and
attending to the needs of local communities. This is important, as the Protected Areas
included in the project contained indigenous and other poor, rural communities and in
some cases overlapped with areas designated Original Communal Territories (TCOs).
From the beginning, the project promoted a new model of conservation through
community co-management as part of the concept of "parks with people." This design
feature was well-suited to the situation in Bolivia. In addition, the project was designed
to build conservatively on capacity that was already being developed and avoided the
pitfalls of trying to expand biodiversity and conservation management to new areas
without adequate strengthening of the current system.

The design of the project built positively on the experience of the first GEF Biodiversity
Conservation Project (Pilot Phase) and lessons learned from other operations. The
project design was especially effective and appropriate in that it took into account the
following lessons:
Use of a long-term programmatic approach. The project team was aware of the need
to allow sufficient time for the breadth of changes expected, and therefore adopted a 15
year adaptable program lending (APL) format with clear objectives for long-term
changes as well as more modest objectives that could be achieved in the Phase 1 project.
The approach was effective in keeping a dialogue with the government about longer term
objectives while focusing implementation on a more limited group of achievable goals.
Selection of priority areas to be protected. Using the experience of the first GEF
project with the System of National Protected Areas, the design wisely used a criteria-
based approach to identify priority areas to be supported during the Phase 1 project. This
approach ensured that only the highest priority areas which did not have alternate sources



                                                8

of support entered the project. It also provided the first step toward the conduct of a Gap
Analysis study which was completed during the project and has provided more detailed
guidance to decision-makers regarding how to prioritize the use of limited resources.
Establishing a core of well-run, adequately functioning areas. Before promoting the
expansion of a national system of protected areas, the program, and specifically the
Phase 1 project, was designed to: (i) focus on strengthening the existing system; and (ii)
completing a gap analysis to identify the priority areas within the existing system and
identify gaps that might be addressed though limited expansion of the system.
Enhancing participation of local actors in the management of Protected Areas. The
project helped establish participatory Management Committees for protected areas so
that local communities and other stakeholders could be directly involved in the
management of protected areas. This proved to be a key component of the project.
Contracting a centrally located team of consultants to oversee project
implementation. With the idea of creating a core of professional personnel with a
measure of autonomy from political pressures and changes, the project financed the
contracting of a team of consultants to take key technical and management positions at
SERNAP's central unit. This was a key element in achieving many of the project's
objectives.

Some of the risks identified during preparation were to some extend underestimated, for
example, the PAD identified as a modest risk the "availability of counterpart funds and
staff" and indicated as a mitigation measure "GOB has committed to provide counterpart
funds from Ministry budget resources." Lack of counterpart financing was a significant
impediment to project implementation in mid-2003 when no counterpart funds at all
were made available to the project. The problems with counterpart financing were
predictable, as significant government fiscal problems existed even at the time of
appraisal. Given this, alternatives project strategies should have been articulated within
the project design. In relation to staff, while there was continuity of a number of the
consultant positions in SERNAP, the frequent changes in SERNAP leadership had a
negative impact on implementation. Given the predictability of this problem, the project
design should have included greater involvement of institutions outside of SERNAP and
the government in the leadership of some of the technical tasks .

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)


This project has been one of the largest biodiversity conservation operations in Bolivia in
the last years and has provided an important opportunity to harmonize the support of
several donors and to optimize the investments in protected areas. The quality of project
performance has fluctuated throughout the implementation period. At the beginning, staff
and institutional stability at both, SERNAP and FUNDESNAP, as well as a regular
availability of counterpart funds, allowed a smooth implementation and full
accomplishment of the operational plans. During year 2003, the fiscal crisis and initial
changes in SERNAP Directors had a negative impact and key activities were delayed.
The project financial gap was solved with the decision to finance 100% of expenditures,



                                               9

however institutional instability and overall conflictive social and political context
continued to negatively affect implementation. Towards mid-2004 and during 2005, and
in spite of continued changes in SERNAP Directors, implementation came back on track,
allowing the completion of the most important aspects of the project, however validation
and implementation of strategic planning tools such as the SNAP Master Plans was not
possible due to time constraints during the final execution stage.

Some of the factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the project were:

1. Relative stability in the assignment of the Directors of Protected Areas and
commitment by them and their staff to engaging local communities and other
stakeholders in the management process.
2. Effective use of available scientific resources and information, leading to the
development of a high quality Gap Analysis for the SNAP which has provided a
framework of future efforts to protect Bolivia's biodiversity.
3. A relatively simple project design that gave priority to a limited number of activities
for which there was strong ownership by both the central and field offices of SERNAP
and by other involved external support agencies, including Dutch and German
cooperation. There was especially broad-based, strong support for the most innovative
aspects of the project, that is: (i) the strengthening and capitalization of FUNDESNAP
as a strategy to make SNAP financially sustainable; and (ii) the establishment and
strengthening of Management Committees for each Protect Area to involve
representatives of local communities and local government.
4. The project successfully integrated local and indigenous communities as active
participants and beneficiaries in protected areas management and conservation, being the
most important mechanism the establishment and operation of the protected areas
management committees.
5. The project targeted indigenous and local communities needs in developing and
piloting five (5) models for income generation in five protected areas. The treatment of
indigenous people during project implementation was fully consistent with the
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, as described in Annex 12 of the PAD, principles
contained in Operational Guideline 4.20 (Indigenous People), and the applicable
regulations of the Republic of Bolivia.
6. Efforts to develop a new legal framework (the Protected Areas Law) resulted in the
development of widely discussed and high quality draft legislation. With the political
decision to re-write the national constitution this effort was used to develop specific
proposals for the new constitution. While neither the law nor new constitution have been
finalized, because of the project, inputs for these processes are fully developed.
7. Coordination and harmonization with donors and co-financiers largely contributed to
the achievements of the project. During project preparation, key SERNAP and
FUNDESNAP donors were consulted and participated in final project design and
financing plans. As a result of this coordinated effort, parallel financing arrangements
with Germany and the Netherlands complemented the proposed GEF assistance, and
local NGOs supported the project through their activities in the protected areas of the
SNAP.
8. Stability of a professional Project Coordinating Unit within SERNAP, which under



                                               10

difficult circumstances contributed to keeping project activities on track and contributed
to the high quality of many of the products.

A group of factors hindered project implementation, however these were not under
SERNAP's and the project team's direct control. Among the most relevant were:
1. The government's fiscal crisis in 2003-04, which prevented it from providing
counterpart financing to the project (15%), temporarily paralyzing the implementation of
a number of project activities including contracting of the Master Plan, infrastructure
projects in the protected areas and other consulting efforts. The problem of counterpart
financing was overcome through an addendum to the Grant Agreement permitting 100%
grant financing in each disbursement category as part of a portfolio wide agreement
between the Government and the Bank.
2. Frequent changes in government administrations and policies, including changes in the
sector Ministry, were accompanied by changes in the approach to implementing policies
on protected areas management. In spite of these problems, SERNAP completed the
most relevant planning and analytical documents: a Financial Strategic Plan, an
Institutional Strategic Plan, the ecological Gap Analysis, and an initial, draft version of
the Master Plan.
3. The protected Areas Law was not presented to, much less approved by the Congress.
In spite of SERNAP's efforts, the complex political and social context made other
legislation a higher priority.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The system for monitoring and evaluating project performance was implemented very
much as described in the PAD and functioned well in keeping implementation on track
and focused on resolving critical issues impacting the achievement of desired outputs and
outcomes. As per the design of the system, the indicators identified in the Project Design
Summary (Annex 1 of the PAD) were reported on by the Project Coordinating Unit, were
discussed by regular supervision missions, and were the focus of the assessments
conducted as part of the Mid-Term Review and the final Evaluations done at the end of
the project.

A scorecard methodology was designed and applied to rate the management of each
Protected Area and provide a reference point for understanding the level of improvement
due to the project. This rating system has provided a useful tool to evaluate the impact of
the project as well as the quality of the management of the protected areas that have been
supported by the project. This method was applied every year to measure the
achievements reached by the project in terms of attaining certain management standards.

The methodological concept was taken from the Parks in Peril Program of The Nature
Conservancy, based on which the management indicators were prepared and especially
adapted to the Bolivian circumstances. The indicators applied were the following:

A. Basic biological diversity protection activities




                                             11

Infrastructure and equipment: refers to the buildings and equipment within the
protected area (including park ranger posts, radio systems, vehicles, demarcation of
limits, signaling system, etc.), which are necessary for the appropriate management of
the protected area.

Institutional capacity: refers to the existence of a manager and operative staff that
executes management actions in the protected area.

Training: The personnel's presence in the protected area is not enough by itself. The
personnel of a protected area should also have the necessary capacity to fulfill his or her
management responsibilities.

Land tenure: Appropriate and correct information about the land tenure is crucial for the
effective management of protected areas.

Threat analysis: A systematic analysis that identifies the threats to the resources, and
also points out their origins and proposes strategies to overcome them, is an essential
management tool for the conservation of a protected area.

Legal status: An official ordinance is a fundamental component of the long-term
security of most of protected areas, but many of the oldest ordinances contain vague
information that weakens their capacity to protect an area. Also, many times the "correct"
borders of a protected area have not been officially approved or registered. Some
ordinances demarcate open polygons that do not accurately reflect the geographical area
that needs to be protected.

B. Long-term management

Biological diversity protection plan: The preparation and implementation of a
biological diversity protection plan are management decisions of great importance. This
plan is a document that guides the medium-term protection of the biological diversity of
a protected area.

Inventory of biological diversity: The management of protected areas must be based on
an inventory of biological diversity. However, there is often not enough available
information for an efficient management of the protected area.

Biological diversity monitoring plan: The monitoring of biological diversity has as a
main objective to have a better understanding of the evolution of natural communities
and species that receive protection due to their biological importance in the protected
area.

C. Long Term Funding

Long-term financial plan for the protected area: is a determinant component of a
successful management strategy for a protected area. The plan should identify a diverse



                                             12

funding basis that covers the activities of the basic management of the area.

D. Participation of local groups

Management Committee established and working: The Management Committees
allow social groups interested in the protected area, including the local communities, to
participate in the management process of the protected area. The presence of a
Management Committee indicates an openness of the area's management to incorporate
and to approach the concerns of those people interested and their relation with the
management.

Community participation in the compatible use of the resources: In those protected
areas with communities inside their boundaries or immediately adjacent to them, the
conservation of biological diversity depends on the communities' use of natural resources
in a way that is compatible with the biological diversity conservation goals for the
protected area.

Environmental education programs implemented: Environmental education is a
fundamental component of the management of protected areas. The local support to the
conservation objectives can depend on the communities' understanding of these
objectives. The environmental education program includes a wide range of activities.
Many times, the common denominator is a systematic explanation of the importance of
the protected area and the rules and regulations related to it.

The scorecard is composed of five points that reflect a quality level for each indicator as
follows:
5 = Excellent
4 = Very good
3 = Good
2 = Fair
1 = Poor

The first application of this methodology provided a baseline value of 2.17 .

In addition, a Protected Areas biodiversity conservation and social monitoring system
was designed during implementation. As mentioned in section 7.2 above, this was an
overly ambitious instrument that was difficult to apply. Thus the project did not succeed
in measuring changes over time in biodiversity values in the Protected Areas giving
information on the impact of conservation actions. In spite of this, there were successful
instances of the use of information on selected species (e.g. flamingoes and vicunas) that
could track impact over time. In a number of cases this monitoring has demonstrated
positive trends toward recuperation due to conservation actions.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)




                                                13

Safeguards

Environmental Assessment. As a Category B project, potential environmental impacts
were analyzed and mitigating measures defined, as needed, for project activities related
to tourism development in buffer zones, infrastructure in protected areas (e.g., small
scale civil works such visitors centers, guard posts, tourist trails and access roads), and
sustainable economic activities planned within buffer zones under Component 5 (e.g.,
agro-ecological production, sustainable harvesting of non-timber products).

The SERNAP Environmental Assessment Unit was responsible throughout the project to
implement the procedures established in its Environment Analysis Framework (EAF) in
coordination with the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment (MSD).
Based on the assessment carried out during regular supervision missions and the Mid-
term Review, SERNAP fully complied with the agreed environmental procedures. In
addition, the Protected Area Management Plans included a diagnostic and mapping of
threatened or fragile zones and this was used to ensure that infrastructure would be
strictly limited to agreed "Special Zones".

During the project the process to obtain the environmental licenses by SERNAP from the
sector Ministry, particularly for protected areas infrastructure, was cumbersome and
bureaucratic. This contributed to delays in implementation.

Resettlement Framework. The project was designed to harmonize the practices of local
communities in each protected area with the ecosystems. No expropriation of resources
or displacement of population occurred either as part of the project, or more generally by
government in the areas of the project.

Indigenous Peoples. Assessments carried out during the joint supervision missions,
indicate that the project has successfully integrated local and indigenous communities as
active participants and beneficiaries in protected areas management and conservation,
being the most important mechanism the establishment and operation of the Comites de
Gestion ( protected areas management committees ). In addition, the project has targeted
the indigenous and local communities in developing and piloting five (5) models for
income generation in five protected areas. The treatment of indigenous people during
project implementation was fully consistent with the Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan, as described in Annex 12 of the PAD, principles contained in Operational
Guideline 4.20 (Indigenous People), and the applicable regulations of the Republic of
Bolivia.

Fiduciary
Procurement. SERNAP experienced difficulties in following procurement procedures
during the first year of project implementation, mainly due to the lack of a procurement
specialist in the core implementation team. This situation was solved and based on the
procurement assessments carried out during the regular supervisions, the overall
procurement performance was considered satisfactory. The Bank conducted a post-
review of procurement for the period January-December 2005. Following an intensive



                                             14

review of several contracts, the Bank specialist judged SERNAP to have demonstrated
compliance with procurement procedures.

Financial Management and Audits. The regular audit reports resulted in unqualified
opinions on the statement of sources and uses of funds, cumulative investments, the
Statements of Expenses (SOEs) and the Special Account. However, the annual audit
reports did identify some internal control issues related to the preparation of the
Statements of Expenses and the reconciliation of the Special Account. In each case these
were addressed by the SERNAP team in a timely way, in accordance with an agreed
action plan.

Disbursements. There were no issues regarding the management of disbursements.
Delays experienced in disbursement were due to lack of counterpart financing during
2003 and 2004, and later in 2005 and 2006 when disbursements were held up pending
the conversion of the Grant Agreements from SDRs to US dollars.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


The recent personnel changes in the Central Unit and Protected Areas Units of SERNAP
could affect to some extent the continuity and future sustainability of activities supported
by the project and the design for follow-up operations. It is still premature to judge the
final evolution of the changes that the institution is currently undergoing. Nevertheless,
there exist good levels of information, signed agreements and an institutional structure
that would provide a favorable context for proceeding with the design of Phase 2 of the
program.

A new operation will provide a unique opportunity to build on the positive results of this
project and will allow to expand the support to protected areas, efficiently conserve key
components of biodiversity and consolidate the strategic alliances that have been initiated
with local communities through the development of local development productive
alternatives.

A new vision of protected areas, developed by the current sector authorities in Bolivia,
emphasizes the role of biodiversity and protected areas as strategic resources for local
development of poor communities and is being incorporated in the National
Development Plan. The principles stated in the Development Plan will be reflected in the
design of the new GEF operation.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The global objectives, design and implementation identified for the project for the most



                                                15

part still have a high level of relevance as the principle issues needing to be addressed
have changed little since project design. Experience during the past six years has shown
that while the objectives are fully relevant, the design and implementation would have
been more relevant if it were to have: (1) reduced reliance on government
implementation, and encouraged the delegation of more management and monitoring
tasks to third parties such as local and other NGOs; and (2) stepped away from the
emphasis on overall legal reform through the passage of a new Protected Areas law and
focused instead on strengthening the existing legal framework through work on discrete
regulatory and sector issues.

Bolivia's ecosystems are still under increasing pressure from land use changes that are a
threat to ecological sustainability. These include the replacement of forestry for
agriculture, and the contamination and degradation of aquatic ecosystems as a result of
mining and other extractive activities. One of the main threats to Bolivia's biodiversity is
habitat destruction and degradation, primarily through deforestation.

The project components have supported the integration of biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use, by consolidating and improving conservation efforts in 10 priority
protected areas. The project design was particularly relevant to the conservation of areas
of global significance and to the in-situ conservation of biodiversity at three levels:
genetic resources; species; and ecosystems. The design and approach has only increased
in its relevance, as the estimated population living in and around the SNAP has increased
to approximately 40,000 people in 150 communities. Nearly all of these people still live
in conditions of poverty. The use of biodiversity is part of the survival strategies of poor
rural communities and can lead to overexploitation and illegal wildlife trade.

Project studies and the implementation of pilot projects on biodiversity sustainable use
by local communities have contributed to sustainable, equitable utilization of
biodiversity. The project has piloted alternative activities to demonstrate how activities
can be compatible with biodiversity conservation, and at the same time can generate
economic benefits. Specific examples of the positive impacts are the following: in
Madidi: i) 60 hectares contain agro-forestry systems addressed to the production of
ecological cocoa; ii) 140 beneficiary families have been trained on agroforestry systems,
improved management of cacao and improved/environmentally sound agricultural
practices; iii)) assistance to beneficiary families on silvicultural methods to maintain
healthy and productive cocoa plants, as well as the construction of storage, drying and
selection facilities has been provided. In El Palmar, 81 families are managing and
conserving native forests, developing agro-ecological systems, protecting water streams
through reforestation with native species and to implementing low cost technology to
optimize the use of rain water for micro-irrigation. Other impacts in terms of improved
livelihood to local communities are further discussed in Section 8.2.

In early 1998, the National Service of Protected Areas (SERNAP) was established as an
autonomous entity in charge of the SNAP. In spite of the activities developed under the
project to strengthen SERNAP's core functions, its ability to operate as an autonomous
entity and to manage the technical and administrative aspects of protected areas is still



                                              16

constrained. Although the technical and professional level of its staff at the central unit
and protected areas has substantially improved, additional efforts are needed to locate all
the important national protected areas under an acceptable level of management.

SERNAP did not succeed with the passing of the Protected Areas Law in spite of all the
joint efforts with key representatives of Bolivian civil society. Although major advances
in recent regulations developed by SERNAP have created a number of useful instruments
to improve protected areas management, further efforts, once conditions in the country
allow them, will still be important and needed to strengthen the legal framework for
conservation of biodiversity and protected areas. Also new attempts should be made to
remove remaining legal contradictions that threaten to undermine the integrity of
protected areas.

One of the major bottlenecks to ensure the autonomous management of protected areas
by SERNAP has been the lack of sustained financing. The protected areas trust fund
administered by FUNDESNAP has established the basis to cover recurrent operation
costs of integrated conservation management of SNAP on a sustainable basis.
Contributions to the SNAP from the Government are not expected to increase in the
coming years, although other donors such as the Governments of Germany and
Netherland will continue implementing specific operations in selected protected areas,
this will not ensure a sustained financing. In the worse case scenario, the revenues of the
protected areas trust fund administered by FUNDESNAP will become the main financial
source to cover recurrent cost of at least 50% of the national protected areas. The
financial strategy designed under the project, if implemented, will provide additional
mechanisms and sources of self income, however this will still not be enough to elevate
the management of the SNAP to an optimum level.

8.2 Achievement of Global Environment Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)


The achievement of the Global Objective is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The global
environmental objective states that the project would contribute to the long-term
management and sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas, focusing on
establishing and strengthening: (a) the legal, institutional and policy frameworks; (b) the
management capacity at the protected areas and central levels; and (c) the SNAP
financing mechanisms.

The success of the project has come in spite of social and political instability in Bolivia
during the past five years, with project implementation coming under six different
presidential administrations and 7 different SERNAP directors. The project was
designed to build on, complement and collaborate with a long term program of support to
SNAP by a range of bilateral agencies (especially German and Dutch cooperation) and
NGOs as well as efforts by the government to re-establish a SNAP trust fund through the
replacement of the ineffective National Environmental Fund (FONAMA) by the Fund for
the Development of SNAP (FUNDESNAP). The success of the project depended on: (i)



                                                17

substantial, ongoing support and collaboration of the bilateral institutions, NGOS and
others; and (ii) commitment of government to two key innovations, the creation of
FUNDESNAP and the development of social networks of local communities living
inside the protected areas who are represented on and actively participate in the protected
areas management committees. Building on these efforts, the project was responsible for
substantially increasing management efficiency in Bolivia's protected areas by improving
biodiversity management mechanisms and tools and the management of key species and
other elements of biodiversity in the field.

The impact indicators for the achievement of the Global Environment Objective are
assessed as follows:

The legal, institutional and policy frameworks.

The drafting of the Protected Areas Law has been completed but has not yet been
approved by Congress. Although the Protected Areas Law has not been approved by the
Congress, complementary sector regulations have allowed and enhanced administration
of protected areas and management of biodiversity. In addition, SERNAP has been able
to develop the basic regulatory framework to improve PAs management.

Given the social and political context in the last three years, the revision of the Bolivian
Constitution has been identified as a priority action. The approval of the Protected Areas
Law is now strongly linked to the process of the Constitution. One of the main reasons
to pursue the approval of the law was to avoid the existence of conflicts with other
sectoral regulations (i. e. hidrocarbons and mining) relating to the use of natural
resources in protected areas. A better way of dealing with such conflicts may be to
include two new umbrella articles in the new Constitution to clarify and position the role
of SERNAP and the SNAP in the conservation of biodiversity within protected areas. If
this were to occur, the subsequent approval of the Law by the Congress would be much
easier and already have needed political support. SERNAP has already developed these
proposed articles and is ready to work with the relevant parties on their inclusion in the
new Constitution.

The preparation of the Master Plan experienced several difficulties and delays. The
institutional instability and the continuous change of the Directors of SERNAP (7
Directors during the life of the project), each one with a different perspective of the long-
term management of the SNAP, did not allow a timely development of this so necessary
planning instrument. By the end of the project, SERNAP was able to put together a
proposal for the Master Plan, but due to time constrains, consultations and validation
with key actors was not possible and the new authorities are currently analyzing the
compatibility of this proposal with the new vision of the protected areas management.

The proposal of the Master Plan however set forth policies, strategies and priority actions
to manage the country's protected areas. Based on the previously developed gap analysis,
it also identifies ecological representativity and complementary needs. It determines
protection priorities and specifies the relationship between the various units and



                                              18

categories of protected areas.

Management capacity at the protected areas and central levels.

GEF funding under the project supported and strengthened 10 protected areas by
financing their recurrent costs as well as their investment costs. The following 10
protected areas were defined:
* Natural Area of Integrated Management Apolobamba;
* National Park and Natural Area of Integrated Management Kaa-Iya from Gran Chaco;
* El Palmar Natural Area of Integrated Management;
* Otuquis National Park and Zone of Integrated Management;
* San Matias Integrated Management of Natural Areas;
* Toro Toro National Park;
* Pilon Lajas Biosphere Natural Reserve and Indigenous Territory;
* Sama Cordillera Biological Reserve;
* Eduardo Avaroa National Park; and
* Beni Biological Reserve.

The functionality of these protected areas has been mostly achieved. The latest
monitoring reports indicate that the management effectiveness has increased on average
by 1.4 points instead of the expected 1.5, however all the ten protected areas have 2
points or above. Although SERNAPs core functions have been strengthened, capacity
for decentralized management has to be developed. Due to fiscal constraints, conversion
to regular staff of field and key central unit staff has not taken place. The plan was that
the GoB through the National Treasury (TGN) would gradually and partially cover the
cost of conversions, and SERNAP through sustainable financing sources would cover the
rest.

The Government will probably not increase its financial allocations to the SNAP in the
coming years, thus it is likely that the main sources of financing to secure staff
conversions and overall management will be the revenues of the protected areas trust
fund, currently covering about 30% of the recurrent cost of at least 50% of the national
protected areas. The entrance fees system (SISCO) will continue to be a marginal
contribution if as currently operated in only few protected areas, it could become an
important source of self revenue if developed on a system basis.

Participatory management of protected areas

In terms of participatory processes, currently 15 protected areas have management
committees operating on a regular basis. Although the committees show different levels
of commitment and capabilities, SERNAP has been able to establish a solid social
network which effectively articulates territorial planning and protected areas integrity.
The existing overlapping of protected areas with the Territorios Comunitarios de Origen-
TCOs, have provided an additional element for territorial integrity. The project has
successfully integrated local and indigenous communities as active participants and
beneficiaries in protected areas management and conservation, being the most important



                                              19

mechanism the establishment and operation of the protected areas management
committees.

In addition, the project has targeted the indigenous and local communities in developing
and piloting models for natural resources management. About 10% of the population
living inside protected areas were directly benefited from the implementation of these
projects. The following are specific examples of the success of these projects in terms of
establishing the basis for and increased productivity and improved access to local
markets: i) in Piln Lajas, the production of honey and sub-products was increased to
about 75% (from 1,600 Kg to 2,800 Kg.), 62 small producers were actively incorporated
to a local market; ii) in Palmar, small producers have increased their monthly income in
about 30% due to the improved production and commercialization of several agricultural
products; iii) in Piln Lajas, monthy income of small coffee producers has increased in
about 50%, also due to improved production practices and commercialization
mechanisms; iv) in Manuripi, at an initial stage, the diversification of agricultural and
forestry products has improved food quality and has provided opportunities for new
commercialization alternatives.

The development of these projects would not have been possible without the
development of adequate sector regulations, considering key aspects of the Bolivian
National economy and social context. Conservation and the sustainable use of
biodiversity in rural landscapes demand further development of sustainable productive
systems, which in turn require an adequate system of technology transfer. The
development of this type of initiatives could help Bolivia to position itself globally as a
reservoir of natural resources and a producer of goods and services associated to its
environmental capital.

SNAP sustainable financing mechanisms
Today, the vast majority of SNAP's funding comes from donors; the national treasury
contributes only about 3% of the system's funding. Historically, most donor funding has
come in the form of projects. While this has allowed the creation and strengthening of
the SNAP, it creates a potential long-term problem in terms of meeting the recurrent
costs of the systems, threatening its sustainability. The FUNDESNAP Trust Fund was
created to help fill this gap: by taking in donations and investing them, it can convert a
short-term flow of money into a long-term one.

The Protected Areas Trust Fund administered through FUNDESNAP has been
successfully established and is currently operating with a capital endowment of US $ 15
million, the capitalization goal has been met. In the management of its capitalized funds,
FUNDESNAP has achieved an average annual income in the last four years of 6.19%.
The capitalized and extinguishable funds have allowed FUNDESNAP to finance 31.5%
of the basic costs of ten protected areas (about 50% of the national protected areas).
Between 2002 and June 2006 FUNDESNAP achieved a cash flow of US$3,853,751,
equivalent to 28% of the capital in the trust fund.
In addition to its initial role in managing investment funds, FUNDESNAP has expanded
its activities to also include the management of project funds. The main such project



                                              20

managed to date is the KfW-financed Biodiversity in Protected Areas (BIAP) project.
This project was initially managed by SERNAP directly, but was transferred to
FUNDESNAP in 2002 after SERNAP proved unable to manage it effectively. SERNAP
continues to implement BIAP. BIAP funds channeled to SERNAP totaled US$199,000 in
2002, US$699,000 in 2003 and US$420,000 to date in 2004. FUNDESNAP also
managed US$230,000 for TNC in 2002. FUNDESNAP is negotiating several similar
agreements with other projects. Unlike the capital funds, these funds are explicitly short-
term funds. The BIAP project should end in 2006, but a BIAP 2 project may follow it.

It was never intended that FUNDESNAP would fund SNAP's recurrent costs entirely.
Another sources of self income have been identified in the Strategic Financial Plan. The
tourist entrance fee-SISCO has been approved in Eduardo Avaroa, Cotapata, Madidi,
Carrasco, Noel Kempff Mercado, Sajama, and Amboro, but is currently only being
implemented in Eduardo Avaroa and Madidi. A study of tourists in Eduardo Avaroa
undertaken by TNC provided strong support for increasing the fee to at least US$10, but
this has not yet been implemented due to tour operator opposition. SERNAP is planning
to introduce the fee increase in the coming years, simultaneously with a package of
improvements to facilities, to lessen opposition. The Financial Strategy contemplates an
increase in SISCO income to about US$550,000 annually by increasing fees to US$10
for foreigners and implementing SISCO in a few additional areas.

In addition, the other source of state financing will be the municipalities and prefectures,
that will gradually cover the costs of additional field staff, once the decentralized
management mechanisms are established. The Strategic Institutional and Financial Plan
have been designed to improve organizational aspects and to secure sustainable financing
beyond the protected areas trust fund and the support of international donors.

Until the financial strategy and other sources of self income are in place, the main
sources of financing of the SNAP will continue to be the revenues of FUNDESNAP's
protected areas trust fund and the ongoing operations of Germany and the Netherlands
Governments. Under this scenario, it is expected that in the coming years, with only
about 30% of the recurrent costs of 50% of the national protected covered, the minumum
staff and equipment required, the SNAP will be operated on the lowest and basic level.




8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


The assumptions at Appraisal were that the total project, including parallel financing
from the German and Dutch cooperation and NGOs, would require financing of
US$43.69 million of which US$31.95 million would be for investment and US$11.74
million for recurrent costs. Resources would be provided by a variety of sources:
Government of Bolivia (US$4.50 million); FUNDESNAP (US$2.29 million); FONAMA
Trust Fund (US$4.61); GEF (US$15.00 million); Government of Germany (US$11.37



                                             21

million); Government of the Netherlands (US$5.37 million); and local NGOs (US$0.55
million). During the operational period, US$2.08 million would be required to cover
recurrent and investment costs in the 10 priority areas supported by GEF and in the
central unit of SERNAP.

FUNDESNAP income was estimated based on an investment plan contemplating a 6.5%
annual net return and additional endowment resources of US$1.0 million per year during
the five years of the project. It was assumed that FUNDESNAP would raise $5 million in
capital contributions during the 5 year project, in order to achieve a total of $15 million
in endowment capital.

The total Government of Bolivia contribution to the project was projected to be US$3.3
million over five years. In November 2000, the GOB reiterated its commitment to
financing for SERNAP articulated earlier that year in the CDR in a policy letter signed
by the Minister of Sustainable Development. The letter commits the Ministry to
providing a minimum of US$500,000 for the year 2001, US$600,000 for 2002, and
US$650,000 for 2003 and for 2004, and US$680,000 for 2005. For the following years,
these contributions will come from resources generated from the national system of
protected areas with additional funds provided by the central budget to ensure a
minimum total contribution of US$0.6 million annually. The SNAP was projected to
generate US$1.5 million over the five years of the project implying an additional US$1.5
million allocation from the central budget. These resources were to be used to support
both protected area and central unit recurrent and investment costs. In addition, the GOB
would provide counterpart resources necessary to cover any taxes on goods purchased
through the project (estimated at US$0.1 million over the five years of the project).

The situation at the closing of the project is assessed as follows:

Based on the costs and financial information at closing (Annex 2), the total project costs
decreased to US $ 36.47, corresponding to 83.7% of the amount estimated at Appraisal.
It is important to mention that GEF resources were mostly invested throughout the five
project component as originally planned, the funding shortages mainly correspond to the
GOB and parallel financing that was not provided as projected. Although some key
aspects of the project such as the finalized version of a Master Plan, the legal framework
and the conversion of staff were not achieved, it could not be directly attributed to the
financial shortfall, other factors such as institutional instability had more impact on the
final results. These facts can take us to the conclusion that project costs were over-
estimated compared to the period of implementation and the expected outcomes.

The only component of the financial plan that had a direct impact on achieving some of
the project objectives was the Government's fiscal crisis and the impossibility to provide
the counterpart financing, only 27% of the originally committed amount was provided
during the life of the project. This decision was partially solved with the decision by the
Bank to apply the new Country Financing Parameters (100% financing to all expenditure
categories), however key aspects such as the protected areas staff conversion was not
fulfilled. The alternative mechanisms proposed under the Strategic Financial Plan, if



                                              22

implemented, might solve to some extent this financing gap.

The capitalization of the Protected Areas Trust Fund administered by FUNDESNAP
experienced some shortcomings. During the first year of the trust fund operation,
FUNDESNAP negotiated the transfer of funds from two loan agreements between the
Government of Bolivia, IDB ($US 1.97 million) and CAF ($US 1.0 million). These
projects were jointly financing the construction of the Santa Cruz-Puerto Surez road,
and the funds to be invested in FUNDESNAP were supposed to finance activities to
mitigate the impacts along the road and specifically affecting the buffer zones of three
national protected areas (Otuquis, San Matas and Gran Chaco). The implementing
agency in both cases was the National Road Service.

In January of 2005, an amendment to the IDB loan changed the beneficiary agency from
FUNDESNAP to the Bolivian Indigenous Fund, an action that was taken without
consultation with SERNAP and FUNDESNAP. Apparently the same action was going to
take place with the CAF loan agreement. SERNAP and FUNDESNAP did not succeed in
persuading the National Road Service to revert this situation, however by the end of
September 2006, the funds from the CAF's loan were finally transferred to
FUNDESNAP.

Although the resource from the IDB loan were not made available, FUNDESNAP,
applying a financial security band, managed to raise $5 million in capital contributions
during the 5 years of the project for a total of $15 million in endowment capital. Except
for short periods, it was also able to maintain average annual returns of 6.5 %.

Some of the technical studies including certain protected areas Management Plans, the
Strategic Financial Plan and the previous baseline studies to implement the biodiversity
management plans were directly implemented by SERNAP, with strong support of the
project technical team. This modality of implementation resulted in a good quality
product at a significantly lower cost to the project. Savings from this allowed additional
funding to be used for protected areas infrastructure, substantially increasing
management efficiency in those protected areas.

Finally, the implementation of ten pilot biodiversity management projects in five
protected areas provided an opportunity to increase the co-financing of the project from
different sources, including the in kind contribution provided by the beneficiary
communities.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the information provided in Sections 8.2 and 8.3, out of six impact indicators of
the Global Objective, four have been fully achieved and two (Master Plan and Protected
Areas Law) have been partially achieved. As previously indicated, these six key
performance indicators are:



                                              23

1. An efficient management system is established for the SNAP;
2. A long-term Master Plan is developed within an appropriate legal framework;
3. The functionality of 10 protected areas has been achieved as measured by an increase
in management effectiveness by 1.5 points on average and no PA less than 2 (based on
the project's protected areas scorecard methodology);
4. Operating Protected Area Management Committees have increased from 5 to 14;
5. SNAP Trust Fund (FUNDESNAP) is fully operational and its capital endowment has
increased to at least US$ 15.0 million;
6. Adequate legislation has been passed and is enforced to conserve biodiversity and
protected areas within two years of project effectiveness.

The level of impact and the implications on protected areas management and
sustainability in relation of those indicators partially achieved is different, since some
are more critical than others.

The lack of a Protected Areas Law has been addressed to some extent with sectoral
regulations that have improved the management of protected areas by SERNAP.
However, the impossibility to convert staff will pose a risk to an effective management in
the medium and long term. Hopefully the proposed Master Plan will be compatible with
the vision of the new administration and will become a tool for long-term planning.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


Sustainable biodiversity and natural resources management models for protected areas
and their buffer zones have been designed. Based on these models, natural resources
management subprojects have been piloted in selected protected areas with the
following criteria: (i) the capacity to adapt to the protected areas communities' livelihood
practices, natural resource use patterns, cultural values and other socio-economic
conditions; (ii) consistency with protected areas management goals; (iii) responsiveness
to communities' priorities; and (iv) ease of replication. The main objective of these
subprojects was to support the conservation of protected areas while generating local
development processes and benefits and contributing to food security while improving
the quality of life local communities. Successful examples are:

60 hectares within the Madidi Reserve contain agro-forestry systems addressed to the
production of ecological cocoa; 140 beneficiary families have been trained on agro-
forestry systems, improved management of cocoa and improved/environmentally sound
agricultural practices; assistance to beneficiary families on silvicultural methods to
maintain healthy and productive cocoa plants, as well as the construction of storage,
drying and selection facilities.El Palmar Protected Area: this project benefits 81 families
from the communities of Rodeo El Palmar, Aramasi, Loman and Molani. The objective
is to manage and conserve native forests, develop agro-ecological systems, protect water
streams through reforestation with native species and to implement low cost technology


                                              24

to optimize the use of rain water for micro-irrigation. These practices are helping to
conserve key components of biodiversity such as the native palm Janchicoco and
remnants of mountain pine.

An additional mechanism to benefit the communities of some Protected Areas was the
dedication of some of the funds collected through entrance fees (SISCO) to community
works such as schools, sanitation, and mini-generators, as well as providing counterpart
financing for community projects supported by the Prefectures (Department
administrations).


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


SERNAP is a young institution and has yet to be fully established in terms of having a
solid technical team not dependent on international cooperation and a sustainable
financing mechanism in addition to the protected areas trust fund. The projects has
helped to consolidate SERNAP's role as the regulatory agency of the SNAP by
strengthening its policy, planning and management capacities and its ability to operate as
an autonomous institution. SERNAP will continue to articulate a long-term, national
strategy for protected area management taking into account Bolivia's national policies
and sustainable development objectives.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


Not applicable.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


SERNAP

( From Executive Summary from the Independent Evaluation of SERNAP, March
2006)

The project was coherently formulated from an institutional vision of SERNAP, oriented
toward the social and financial sustainability of the System of National Protected Areas
(SNAP). This vision grew from a concept of "Parks with People," a vision generated in
Bolivia and expressed in the Environmental Law of 1999 in accordance with the
Bolivian circumstances and the political and legal changes in recent years.

Although the majority of expected results have been achieved, the efficiency of project
management has been low, due to various mainly external factors (lack of provision of
the 15% counterpart financing committed by the Bolivian Government, political
instability with consequences of changes in the directors of SERNAP with six changes of
directors during project management, and internal bureaucracy of SERNAP) but also



                                                25

factors internal to the project (conflicts between visions and interest groups within the
strategic associates of SERNAP, planning within the PAD that was not realistic,
indicators that were outside the control of the project), which have created severe delays.
It was not possible to accomplish all of the "triggers" defined for the second phase.

At the level of the protected areas, the project has increased the efficiency of
participative management through the provision of infrastructure and equipment for
protection and for ecotourism, but above all else the advances in the Participative
Management Plans, the accumulation of experience of the Management Committees,
which show indications of growing consolidation, a pre-requisite to the more cost-
efficient management necessary for the long term sustainability of SNAP. There are also
advances in the financial sustainability of some Protected Areas.




FUNDESNAP

(Executive Summary from the Independent Evaluation of FUNDESNAP, February
2006)

Beginning in February 2001 the Fundacin para el Desarrollo del Sistema Nacional de
reas Protegidas (FUNDESNAP), a private, non-for-profit entity with a legal status
recognized by the Bolivian government, became the implementing agency for part "D" of
the GEF II project, "Achieving financial sustainability of the Protected Areas of Bolivia"
in accordance with the grant agreement No. TF24707 signed between the World Bank
and FUNDESNAP.

For component "D" (Sustainable Financing) the World Bank allocated US$ 5 million
with resources from previous projects forming a counterpart fund of US$ 9.94 million
allocated to improve the financial capacity of SNAP and consolidate and strengthen the
financial and operational structure of FUNDESNAP with the objective of ensuring the
effective administration of the transferred resources and therefore the achievement of the
project objectives.

One of the goals of the capitalization strategy was to obtain and at least maintain during
the life of the project a revenue of about 6.5%, which was partially achieved. The
average revenue in four years was about 6.19%. The goal was not fully met due to two
main reasons: i) revenues were used before achieving the maturity of the trust fund and
ii) the low revenues registered during 2005 (5,69%), due to the overall behavior of
international markets. However, by the end of 2005, revenue increased to 6,89% due to
an adequate management of the investment portfolio and the selection of the appropriate
instruments to achieve the required annual cash flow.

More details in Annex 7.

9. Assessment of Risk to Global Environment Outcome



                                              26

Rating: Substantial

The risk to the Development Outcome is rated Moderate based on the fact the two
performance indicators partially achieved were developed at the point to which the
processes were totally under control of SERNAP. The draft Protected Areas Law was
prepared through a highly participatory process, ensuring an excellent technical level and
the inclusion of all the necessary mechanisms to provide the country with a solid
instrument for the sustained management of the SNAP. The lack of this instrument did
not prevent SERNAP from preparing sector regulations that allowed the implementation
of crucial actions such as the use of biodiversity by local communities and the control of
the procedures for the environmental assessment of hydrocarbon and mining activities,
also reducing to some extent the existing conflicts among different legal bodies.

On the other hand, the Master Plan, although very delayed and with not enough time
available to carry out a consultation at the national level, provides the operational
framework to consolidate and execute the management tools developed under the project
such as the protected areas management plans, also provides the operational strategies for
a sustained financing, decentralized management and the harmonization and optimization
of funds from different sources.

The adoption of the Master Plan in the future will allow a fully integrated management of
the protected areas, however if not adopted, it will not pose a serious risk to the
sustainability and integrity of the SNAP itself. The strong social network that has been
established though the operation of the Management Committees will mitigate the
impacts of the lack of a protected areas law and the delayed implementation of the
Master Plan. The overlapping of protected areas with TCOs will also secure the
territorial identity.

Financial sustainability has a basis through the protected areas trust fund and will cover
the basic recurrent costs to secure the integrity of important ecosystems. Further efforts
are necessary to consolidate the trust fund and to implement the mechanism for
generation of additional revenue as proposed in the Strategic Financial Plan.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory


The Bank's performance preparing and obtaining approval of the project is considered
Satisfactory. The composition of the Bank team was very good and reliance on the local
team members was an advantage to secure quality at entry. This project was the second
national GEF protected areas project in Bolivia and the design was strongly supported by
the lessons learned during the first project. The Bank successfully addressed key aspects


                                              27

of protected areas management, under a 15 year vision to secure institutional, social and
financial sustainability. While some aspects of the project's design could have been
strengthened to avoid setting up ambitious objectives, this does not diminish the Bank's
satisfactory performance.

The close collaboration and harmonization of actions with the most important donors of
the SNAP also contributed to a better project design and to a good performance of the
Bank preparation team.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory


Bank supervision is considered Satisfactory. At the initial stage of implementation, the
Bank carried out all the necessary actions to secure that all technical and administrative
aspects were properly addressed. The Mid-Term Review was a highly technical exercise,
comprising a team of specialists in diverse areas who contributed to a deep analysis of
the performance of the project and helped to identify critical actions to improve
implementation. The mission comprised specific assessments on safeguard compliance,
institutional aspects, monitoring systems, and the operation of the Management
Committees. The Bank reacted to the fiscal crisis of the Government on an efficient way,
processing the corresponding amendment to create new sub-categories for recurrent costs
and allowing the flow of funds to the protected areas.

A total number of ten missions, including the MTR, took place during the life of the
project. There was a permanent follow-up on project participatory processes. Substantial
attention and support was provided to the consultations on the proposed Protected Areas
Law. Given the continuous changes of the Directors of SERNAP, the Bank provided the
necessary support to the project team to secure a smooth transition and avoid
interruptions of the critical processes. The supervision team efficiently managed to keep
the project on track in the middle of a complex and highly volatile political and social
context.

The Financial Management Specialist and Procurement Officer based at the Bolivia
Country Office provided support and guidance far beyond the regular supervision
missions and contributed substantially to the analysis and processing of the numerous
project transactions.

A particularly important aspect was the continuous support to the supervision team by
the Sector Management Unit and the Country Management Unit. The Country Managers
provided continuous guidance, insight and political advice. The TTL was strongly
supported by the Country Director and Country Manager when the shortfalls with the
protected areas trust fund took place in relation to the IDF and CAF loans. The Country
Director supported the project team by raising this issue at the highest political level
within the Government of Bolivia.



                                               28

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


The Borrower's performance in project preparation is considered Satisfactory.
Preparation of this project was very challenging for the Government of Bolivia, because
it was the second GEF project and the overall design was located under a long-term
planning umbrella with very specific targets, while huge efforts were taking place to
avoid the collapse of the National System of Protected Areas. A strong technical team
managed the process, taking advantage of the lessons of the first project.

During implementation, however, the Government was not able to provide the committed
counterpart producing serious shortcomings in project implementation, however its
ability and capacity to handle this problem was demonstrated when the new Country
Financing Parameters were agreed with the Bank and several projects, including this one,
were subject to a change in the financing plan to cover 100% of the expenditures in all
the categories.

Throughout the project period, the sector Ministries provided the necessary support to
SERNAP for the treatment of the Protected Areas Law and the adoption of policies
related to conservation, however the approval of the Law was not the direct responsibility
of the Government.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


Implementing Agency                          Performance
                                             Moderately Satisfactory
SERNAP


FUNDESNAP                                    Satisfactory


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


SERNAP

The successful implementation of the most important components of this project was due
in large part to a capable project coordination team, which worked together with


                                             29

SERNAP staff in the technical and administrative aspects of the project. In spite of the
frequent changes of Directors, the project team managed to secure uninterrupted
execution. Thus, performance of SERNAP as a whole was moderately satisfactory, with
the main weakness being the lack of consistency of the management and therefore vision
regarding key tasks undertaken by the project.

The participatory manner in which relevant planning tools such as the annual operating
plans and protected areas management plans were developed and monitored, served as an
efficient tool for internal communication and for ensuring that the project was focused on
achieving the Global Objective. It is important to mention the excellent job preparing the
Mid-Term Review and SERNAP's contribution to the ICR.

Regarding donor coordination, SERNAP could have been more strategic and efficient.
Generally, the lack of a clear vision for the management of the SNAP due to the
continuous changes in authorities, did not provide a clear guidance to donors and limited
to some extent a stronger joint effort to optimize funds and concentrate actions on
solving key problems.

FUNDESNAP

FUNDESNAP's implementation of its project component was satisfactory. It is
important to mention FUNDESNAP's strong commitment to carry out a transparent
management of the protected areas trust fund and the enormous efforts to meet the
capitalization goal on a very unstable country context. There was not a single issue
related to the investment procedures that were not reported and consulted with the Bank.
The Bank has been fully informed during the implementation period on the reports of
both, the Asset Manager and the Independent Financial Advisor.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Project Design

It was useful to take a long term (15-year) perspective in project design, as this resulted
in a well focused project which addressed the priority first steps in reaching longer term
goals. Any new operation should keep the vision of a long-term strategic framework
provided by the Master Plan.

Planning instruments for the long-term management of protected areas must be clearly
articulated to national development plans and agendas in order to incorporate sustainable
biodiversity management as a key element for national and local development. The initial
stage of implementation of the Master Plan should consider specific strategies to secure
such linkages.

Financial Sustainability




                                               30

Although the establishment and operation of the protected areas trust fund through
FUNDESNAP has met the project goals, SNAP's financial sustainability is still an
important bottleneck on Bolivia's protected areas management. At project's closing, the
majority of funding was still coming from international donors. The national treasury
will not substantially increase its contribution in the coming years.

In addition to establish the operational mechanisms to implement the financial strategy
proposed under the project which includes further development of the tourist entrance fee
system (SISCO), it is important that both, the State planning agencies and SERNAP
establish clear agreements and new institutional arrangements to allow municipalities
and prefectures to gradually participate in the management of the SNAP and share
recurrent costs and investments. The Strategic Institutional Plan also developed under the
project has been designed to improve organizational aspects and to secure sustainable
financing beyond the protected areas trust fund.

Poverty, land tenure and biodiversity conservation

The implementation of the Master Plan in a next phase should give priority to the
following (i) aspects: i) supporting institutional development at various levels (national,
departmental and municipal); (ii) supporting administrative decentralization without
hindering the development of the central government; (iii) respecting Bolivia's particular
cultural and ethnic diversity; (iv) ensure that conservation and sustainable use initiatives
result in local benefits, and (v) relate natural resource management to rural development.

Articulation of natural and social capitals

Sustainable biodiversity and natural resources management models for protected areas
and their buffer zones were developed and implemented by communities with assistance
from SERNAP. These models were successful in promoting sustainable natural resource
management and biodiversity conservation because they: (i) built on and adapted
existing community livelihood practices, natural resource use patterns, cultural values
and other socio-economic conditions; (ii) were consistent with protected areas
management goals; (iii) responded to communities' priorities; and (iv) were relatively
simple and easy to replicate. The success of these activities on a local, community level
underlines the potential of these initiatives to meeting system objectives while helping
Bolivia to become a producer of goods and services associated with its environmental
capital. Further actions should be implemented to consolidate this type of activities and
to strengthen the existing social networks.

Biodiversity management projects were fundamentally focused on establishing
sustainable biodiversity and natural resources management models, seeking to reduce
threats to protected areas, while improving to some extent the welfare of local
communities. Although very positive impacts were obtained at this pilot stage in
increased productivity and access to local markets, it is expected that in the future, the
continued and expanded support to this type of initiatives will allow to substantially
increase productivity and improve access to markets for small producers. It will also help



                                              31

them innovate, add value, and remove barriers to become actively involved in productive
alliances with other local market actors. Conservation and the sustainable use of
biodiversity in rural landscapes demand further development of sustainable productive
systems, which in turn require an adequate system of technology transfer. The
development of this type of initiatives could help Bolivia to position itself globally as a
reservoir of natural resources and a producer of goods and services associated to its
environmental capital.

These initiatives has been jointly implemented and co-financed with the German
cooperation through the MAPZA project and other co-financiers that were identified
during the design of the pilot projects. Once the GEF project has closed, SERNAP must
secure a continued support in the coming years in the form of technical assistance,
training, and co-financing that will be made available additional capacity building to
consolidate productive chains and even develop business plans.

Protected Areas Management Plans

The participatory process of preparation of the protected areas management plans was
not sufficient, by itself, to secure the ownership and full understanding of the proposed
conservation strategies by stakeholders. For its future implementation it is essential to
develop specific implementation strategies to secure the direct participation of the
protected areas Management Committees.

While the implementation of the natural resource management and biodiversity projects
resulted in greater community support for the protected areas and their management
plans, our experience led us to believe this support would likely disappear if follow-up to
the projects were absent or ineffective.

Monitoring System

In spite of significant efforts in developing a monitoring system, the project did not
succeed in taking all the steps needed to articulate, measure and inform the Management
Committees and other stakeholders regarding the indicators of biodiversity and of the
current and projected future resource use patterns by communities in each Protected
Area. These steps to be further developed in future projects.

Given the limited capacity of SERNAP to continue operating the biodiversity
monitoring system, it is highly recommended the development of new strategic alliances
with other institutions to secure the data collection, processing and analysis and leverage
additional resources to maintain the updating of the databases and the generation of
relevant information.


Government Commitment and Sustainability

The project helped to finance the protected areas staff on a decreasing basis, at the



                                              32

project closing, such staff was fully covered with the protected areas fund. SERNAP and
FUNDESNAP must continue their joint efforts to implement the Strategic Financial Plan
to secure the contracting of additional staff for an improved management of the SNAP.
The implementation of the SFP will reduce SERNAP's dependence on international
cooperation to finance SNAP's recurrent costs and will allow to direct donor's support to
other strategic investments.

Administrative and Project Management Aspects

The success of the project depended greatly on the continuity of the project technical
staff. The missing component was continuity of SERNAP's management which
produced delays on project implementation and continuous interruptions on the
development of the most relevant planning tools such as the Master Plan. In the future it
is important the sector Ministry secures as far as possible the stability ofthe head of
SERNAP and provide a space for better policy and operational coordination.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Cofinanciers


We very much appreciate and want to express our deep gratitude to the Embassies of
Germany and The Netherlands for submitting their letters providing and assessment on
the most relevant aspects such as donor coordination efforts and project design,
implementation and results. The projects financed by the Dutch Cooperation, the German
Cooperation and the GEF project implemented through the Bank have been the largest
operations for the conservation of protected areas in Bolivia in the last 15 years, this sole
aspect merits a close collaboration and the better efforts to harmonize the financial
support to the SNAP. The advice and insights provided in these assessments will help us
to improve the design of a future operation and to incorporate better strategies for
enhanced and more efficient donor coordination during the implementation phase.

However it is important to mention that the general perception regarding the insufficient
donor coordination was mainly generated by the lack of definition by SERNAP on a
long-term vision of the management of the SNAP and all the associated strategies needed
to implement such vision.

During the implementation of the project, there was a permanent interest and willingness
to coordinate actions among donors, however the constantly changing policies due to the
changes of authorities limited such efforts. In spite of this limitations, this is a period in
which the highest levels of coordination have been achieved regarding the consolidation
of the Bolivian protected areas.




                                              33

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           34

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Global Environment Objectives
       The Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas program was
       defined as a 15-year, 3 phase program. The purpose of the 15-year program was
       to ensure that representative ecosystems and biodiversity of Bolivia were
       conserved and sustainably managed through a national system of protected areas.
       The development objectives of the first phase of the program (2000-2006) were to
       ensure the sustainable management of the National System of Protected Areas
       (SNAP) by establishing and strengthening: (a) the legal, institutional and policy
       framework; (b) the management capacity at the protected areas and central levels;
       and (c) the SNAP financing mechanisms. Key indicators of program impact at
       the end of Phase 1 were defined as: (a) an efficient management system was to
       be in place for SNAP; (b) a long-term Master Plan was to be developed within an
       appropriate legal framework; (c) the functionality of 10 protected areas was to be
       achieved as measured by an increase in management effectiveness by 1.3 points
       on average and no PA less than 2 (based on the project's protected areas scorecard
       methodology); (d) operating Protected Area Management Councils were to have
       increased from 5 to 14; (e) SNAP Trust Fund (FUNDESNAP) was to have
       been fully operational and its capital endowment increased to at least US$15.0
       million, covering about 30% of SNAP recurring costs; (f) adequate
       legislation was to have been passed and is enforced to conserve biodiversity and
       protected areas within two years and a half of project effectiveness.

       Key performance indicators were established as follows:
       1. An efficient management system is established for the SNAP;
       2. A long-term Master Plan is developed within an appropriate legal framework;
       3. The functionality of 10 protected areas has been achieved as measured by an
       increase in management effectiveness by 1.5 points on average and no PA less
       than 2 (based on the project's protected areas scorecard methodology);
       4. Operating Protected Area Management Committees have increased from 5 to
       14;
       5. SNAP Trust Fund (FUNDESNAP) is fully operational and its capital
       endowment has increased to at least US$ 15.0 million;
       6. Adequate legislation has been passed and is enforced to conserve biodiversity
       and protected areas within two years of project effectiveness.

Revised Global Environment Objectives
Not applicable.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)


                                      Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

 Indicator       Baseline Value        Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                         approval          Target    Completion or Target
                                        documents)         Values           Years



                                            35

Indicator 1 : An efficient management system is established for the SNAP
              The National System
              of Protected Areas
              (SNAP) is created
Value         with national protectedTen protected areas                 Ten protected areas
(quantitative areas opetaring at the (about 50% of the      not          covered by the project
or            basic level, the       existing) under        applicable   are under efficient
Qualitative) majority lacking of     efficient management                management
              management plans,
              sufficient staff and
              financing
Date
achieved      01/31/2001             06/30/2006             06/30/2006 06/30/2003

Comments
(incl. %      This indicator has been fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : A long-term Master Plan is developed within an appropriate legal framework

              A 15-year program      A Master Plan for the               Master Plan proposal is

Value         with general           SNAP is developed in                ready by the closing

(quantitative objectives and targets consultation with      not          date. This draft has not

or            is developed. A long- stakeholders and        applicable   been consulted with

Qualitative) term operational tool operating under a                     stakeholders and the

              is not in place        legal framework                     legal framework has
                                                                         not been developed
Date
achieved      01/31/2001             06/30/2006             06/30/2006 06/30/2005

Comments
(incl. %      This indicator has been achieved in about 80%, the delays in developing this tool

achievement)  due to changes in SERNAP management did not allow its completion.

Indicator 3 : The functionality of 10 protected areas has been achieved as measured by an
              increase in management effectiveness by 1.5 points on average
                                     Management                          Management
Value                                effectiveness                       effectiveness increased
(quantitative Management             increased by 1.5       not          by 1.4 points in
or            effectiveness is 1.7   points in average, no applicable    average, no protected
Qualitative)  points in average      protected areas with                areas with less than 2
                                     less than 2 points                  points.
Date
achieved      01/31/2001             06/30/2006             06/30/2006 06/30/2006

Comments      Althpugh effectiveness reached only 1.4 average, it is important to highlight that
(incl. %      the ten PAs under the project are 2 points or more in average. For this reason this
achievement) indicator is considered 100% achieved.
Indicator 4 : Operating Protected Area Management Committees have increased from 5 to 14
Value                                                                    Management Councils
(quantitative Management Councils Management                not          established and
or            operational in 4       Councils increased     applicable   operational in 17
Qualitative)  protected areas        from 4 to 15                        protected areas
Date          01/31/2001             06/30/2006             06/30/2006 06/30/2006



                                               36

achieved
Comments
(incl. %      This indicator has surpassed the original target, Management Counciuls were

achievement)  established in two additional protected areas.

Indicator 5 :SNAP Trust Fund (FUNDESNAP) is fully operational and its capital endowment
             has increased to at least US$ 15.0 million
                                       SNAP Trust Fund                   SNAP Trust Fund
Value         SNAP Trust Fund          (FUNDESNAP) is                    (FUNDESNAP) is fully
(quantitative with initial operational fully operational and not         operational and its
or            mechanisms and with its capital endowment      applicable  capital endowment has
Qualitative)  a capital endowement has increased to at
              of US $ 4.8 million.     least US$ 15.0                    increased to US$ 15.0

                                       million                           million

Date
achieved      01/31/2001               06/30/2006            06/30/2006 06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      This indicator is 100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 6 :Adequate legislation has been passed and is enforced to conserve biodiversity and
             protected areas within two years of project effectiveness.
              Lack of sector-specific
Value         legal and regulatory     Protected Areas Law               The drafting of the

(quantitative framework to ensure      passes and approved not           Protected Areas Law

or            sustainable              within two years of   applicable  has been completed but

Qualitative) management of             project effectiveness             not approved by the

              protected areas                                            Congress

Date
achieved      01/31/2001               06/30/2006            06/30/2006 06/30/2006

Comments      This indicator was partially achieved (80%). The Government carried out the
(incl. %      preparation and consultation processes, however the approval by the Congress is
achievement) out of the Government's control.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                     Original Target        Formally   Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator     Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised    at Completion or Target
                                   approval documents)       Target
                                                             Values              Years

Indicator 1 : Management system of 10 protected areas strengthened.
                                                                      Management pland for
                                                                      three additional protected
Value         Eight out of the                                        areas have been developed
(quantitative ten protected areas Management system of not            and are under
or            have management 10 selected protected        applicable implementation. Office
Qualitative)  plans and basic     areas is strengthened.
              equipment                                               and field equipment has
                                                                      been provided to the ten
                                                                      selected PAs.
Date          01/31/2001          06/30/2006               06/30/2006 06/30/2006


                                                 37

achieved
Comments
(incl. %      This indicator has been 100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Protected Areas law prepared and presented for approval by Congress
              Lack of sector-

Value         specific legal and  Protected Areas Law
(quantitative regulatory          passes and approved     not           Protected Areas Law has

or            framework to        within two years of     applicable    been completed but not

Qualitative)  ensure sustainable                                        approved by the Congress
              management of       project effectiveness

              protected areas
Date
achieved      01/31/2001          06/30/2006              06/30/2006 06/30/2006

Comments      This indicator was partially achieved (80%). The Government carried out the
(incl. %      preparation and consultation processes, however the approval by the Congress is
achievement) out of the Government's control.
              FUNDESNAP established as a capitalized trust fund to support recurrent costs of
Indicator 3 : 10 priority areas covers recurrent costs and mobilizes a total capital endowment of
              US$15 million
              SNAP Trust Fund     SNAP Trust Fund
Value         with initial        (FUNDESNAP) is                        SNAP Trust Fund

(quantitative operational         fully operational and   not           (FUNDESNAP) is fully

or            mechanisms and      its capital endowment applicable      operational and its capital

Qualitative)  with a capital                                            endowment has increased
              endowement of       has increased to at                   to US$ 15.0 million
              US $ 4.8 million.   least US$ 15.0 million

Date
achieved      01/31/2001          06/30/2006              06/30/2006 06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 : Models for biodiversity management developed and piloted at 3 PAs
              (MAPZA/GTZ)

Value         Few pilot           Models for

(quantitative experiences         biodiversity            not           Models for biodiversity

or            developed by        management              applicable    management developed

Qualitative)  previous projects developed and piloted                   and piloted at 5 PAs.
              financed by GTZ. at 3 PAs.
Date
achieved      01/31/2001          06/30/2006              06/30/2006 06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      This indicator surpassed the target value, pilot projects were developed in two

achievement)  additional PAs.

Indicator 5 : Monitoring and evaluation system of biodiversity conservation established and
              operating
Value         Basic design of a Monitoring and            not           Monitoring and evaluation
(quantitative monitoring system evaluation system of      applicable    system of biodiversity



                                                38

or           has been           biodiversity                            conservation established
Qualitative) developed          conservation                            and operating for SNAP,
                                established and                         regular application in the
                                operating for SNAP                      ten selected PAs.
Date
achieved     01/31/2001         06/30/2006                06/30/2006 06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %     This indicator was 100% achieved. Although the monitoring system was re-scaled

achievement) due to its compelxity, it is currently operating on a regular basis.




                                                39

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     40

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                               Appraisal
               Components                   Estimate (USD     Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                                 M)         Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                           6.56              3.74          57.01

MANAGEMENT OF PRIORITY
PROTECTED AREAS                                      21.82             16.41          75.21

LEGAL AND REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK                                             0.57              0.12          21.05

SUSTAINABLE FINANCING                                 9.78             15.00         153.37
BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENET AND
MONITORING IN PROTECTED AREAS                         4.83              1.20          24.84

                       Total Baseline Cost           43.56             36.47
Physical Contingencies                                0.10
Price Contingencies                                   0.30
                       Total Project Costs           43.96
Project Preparation Facility (PDF-B)                  0.37              0.35          94.59
                                                      0.00              0.00           0.00
                 Total Financing Required            44.33             36.82



(b) Financing


                                                   Appraisal    Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds               Type of                                  Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing     Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                                   (USD M)            M)         Appraisal

  Borrowing Agency                  National
                                  Counterpart             3.03             0.81       26.73

  Borrower                          National
                                  Counterpart             1.47             1.50      102.04

  GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT                Trust fund
FACILITY                          earnings                2.84             2.84      100.00

  GERMANY, GOV. OF (Except          Trust Fund
for BMZ)                          capitalization          1.00             1.00      100.00

  NETHERLANDS, GOV. OF
THE (Except for MOFA/Min of         Trust Fund            1.10             1.10      100.00
Dev. Coop.                        capitalization

  BILATERAL AGENCIES                Trust Fund            1.97             1.97      100.00




                                              41

  NON-GOVERNMENT
ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF       Parallel      5.37    4.57   85.10
BORROWING COUNTRY

(c) Disbursement Profile




                                    42

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component 1:    Institutional and Policy Development
  a. Although the elaboration of the Master Plan was not accomplished, the following
     planning instruments were created: Integrated Plan, Financial Strategic Plan, and
     Institutional Strategic Plan. The Integrated Plan, drafted in place of the Master
     Plan, does not constitute an operational plan as was expected. It does, however,
     provide a general planning framework for SERNAP. The principal elements of
     the Financial Strategic Plan are: (i) a strategic plan for the development of the
     financial sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas; (ii) a financial
     plan presenting an analysis of the financing requirements and gaps of the
     National System of Protected Areas; and (iii) a revenue plan providing guidelines
     for achieving required financing of the System in the context of financial
     concurrence.
  b. Identification of mechanisms to generate income. Two project activities
     contributed to achieving self-financing of the Protected Areas: (i) the
     development of a user/entrance fees (SISCO) which were successfully applied in
     two Protected Areas, one of which succeeded in becoming fully self-financing
     (REA); and (ii) the articulation of the concept of environmental service and
     concession fees, including the drafting of proposed regulations for tourism
     concessions.
  c. The project established an efficient project team during implementation. Because
     of the austerity conditions of the government plans to convert contracted
     personnel to regular government staff could not be carried out. In addition,
     during the recent political changes, the majority of SERNAP staff were fired and
     replaced.

Component 2: Management of Priority Protected Areas
  a. SERNAP's central/national office was strengthened by the contracting of large
     numbers of technical personnel with the goal that these would later form part of
     the organization. This objective was not achieved due to political instability and
     government's fiscal restrictions. A proposal has been sent to the Finance Ministry
     for the conversion of SERNAP personnel to become permanent government
     personnel. If this proposal were approved the target of 80% would be superseded
     given that in reality it would cover 100% of the personnel of Protected Areas
     (park guards, heads of protection, administrators, and directors of Protected
     Areas) and key personnel of SERNAP's central unit. This proposal indicates that
     the salaries for these positions would be covered by permanent and sustainable
     sources which SERNAP already has at hand for the next 5 years. These funding
     sources include: income from FUNDESNAP capitalized trust funds, other funds
     of FUNDESNAP (extinguishable funds), Bolivian Treasury funds, the Kaa Iya
     trust fund, the Noel Kempff Mercado trust fund, SISCO (park fees). These
     funding source will generate approximately US$2,430,000 annually, which will
     cover the basic operational costs of the 19 project areas under SERNAP
     management, plus the technical and administrative team of SERNAP's central
     unit.



                                          43

    b. The project provided infrastructure and basic equipment to ensure effective
        management and operation of each area (computers, communication equipment,
        vehicles, motorcycles). Two sizeable infrastructure projects were done 
        interpretive centers in REA and Pilon Lajas.
    c. The project contributed to the preparation and implementation of Management
        Plans for three Protected Areas. Although the project has been closed it is
        expected that three more plans will be completed shortly.
    d. The project also provided training and environmental education and other
        capacity building for communities surrounding the Protected Areas.
    e. Local and institutional participation and coordination in protected area
        management was strengthened for the 10 targeted Protected Areas through the
        establishment and support to the Management Committees for each Protected
        Area.

Component 3: Legal and Regulatory Framework
    a. The project supported the development of a new, proposed Protected Areas law
        and revision of other laws and regulations to ensure a consistent and supportive
        legal framework. In spite of all the consultation and effort, this Law has not yet
        been approved by the Bolivian Congress.
    b. A range of internal regulations were developed and approved for the National
        Protected Areas System addressing: zoning in Protected Areas, environmental
        impacts, environmental service charges, tourism, and concessions.

Component 4: Sustainable Financing
The implementation of Component 4 depended on the creation of FUNDESNAP. As
part of the project, in February 2001 a grant agreement (TF24707) was signed between
the World Bank and FUNDESNAP formalizing FUNDESNAP's role as the
implementing agency of Component 4 of the project.

During the period of 2001 to 2005, FUNDESNAP's capitalization grew to US$
13,787,625, with a rate of increase in its capitalization from its starting point of
US$4,923,121 of 280% in those 4 years. In September 2006, three months after project
closing, the capitalization target of US$15 million was reached with the addition of funds
from CAF.

The capitalization of FUNDESNAP was achieved in the following way:

                        Consolidated Capital for the SNAP Trust Fund
                          Managed by FUNDESNAP, 2001  2006
                                            US$




                                             44

                            Source                 Dated of           Capital
                                            Consolidation/Donation
              Switzerland                           2001             1.479.801
              USA (PL-480)                          2001             1.000.000
              Great Britain                         2001             2.443.320
              GEF- Banco Mundial                    2001             5.030.496
              CAPITALIZATION
              German Trust Fund (*)                 2002             2.784.006
              Gas Oriente Boliviano                 2002               400.000
              Madidi Trust Fund                     2005               650,000
              Andean Development                    2006             1.000,000
              Corporation
              Security margin                        2006              212,377
              established
                                        TOTAL                       15,000,000



(*) The only sinking funds in FUNDESNAP.


Of the US$15 million, 80% are part of the capitalization of the Trust Fund, and 20% are
extinguishable funds. Of the capitalized resources, 90% come from bilateral and
multilateral sources and 10% from private sources.

In the management of its capitalized funds, FUNDESNAP has achieved an average
annual income in the last four years of 6.19%. The capitalized and extinguishable funds
have allowed FUNDESNAP to finance 31.5% of the basic costs of SNAP. Between
2002 and June 2006 FUNDESNAP achieved a cash flow of US$3,853,751, equivalent to
28% of the capital in the trust fund.

The operation of FUNDESNAP has followed its internal regulations. For example, it has
make conservative, low risk investments, and the channeling of funds to SERNAP has
been done based on defined, required procedures for joint planning, efficient
management and oversight. To manage the funds various levels of management and
coordination mechanisms were established:
      The Asset Manager was selected by an open international recruitment process,
         receiving the review and no objection by the World Bank and other fundors. The
         Asset Manager is responsible for the supervision of the funds. Currently the
         Asset Manager is Solomon, Smith and Barney of City Group. The Asset
         Manager manages the buying and selling of investments based on instructions
         from FUNDESNAP. The Asset Manager maintains a permanent information
         system on line and provides monthly reports to FUNDESNAP.
      Financial Advisor is located within FUNDESNAP and advises in the
         management of investments. Currently the Financial Advisor is Master Capital S.
         A., headquartered in Mexico, which has a lot of international experience with
         environment funds.
      FUNDESNAP management administers the investments and the general
         management of the Trust Fund with the help of the Financial Advisor and in


                                              45

        coordination with the Investment Committee of the FUNDESNAP Board of
        Directors, in accordance with FUNDESNAP's established investment strategy
        and guidelines.
     Investment Committee of the FUNDESNAP Board of Directors provides
        monitoring and control of the management of the Trust Fund, and issues policies
        and recommendations to be applied by FUNDESNAP management in the
        management of the portfolio.

In addition, mechanisms for safeguarding the capital invested were established as part of
FUNDESNAP's investment guidelines. A margin of security, or risk-free reserve fund,
was established. This reserve fund was calculated based on the average volatility of the
investment instruments and takes up between 3% and 5% of the portfolio.

Component 5: Biodiversity Management and Monitoring in Protected Areas
    a. Through the project SERNAP's monitoring systems have improved, specifically
        the Measurement of Management Effectiveness of SNAP and the System for
        Biodiversity Monitoring.
    b. The objective of the component was to consolidate and complement prior efforts
        in natural resource management and monitoring of the Protected Areas and their
        buffer zones. For this reason the project worked closely with other donors (GTZ,
        FAN, WWF, WCS, CARE, CI) to increase knowledge and develop coherent
        models of the country. The subcomponents implemented were:
 To develop models for biodiversity and natural resource management in the
Protected Areas based on the work of MAPZA/GTZ in the buffer zones of 3 Protected
Areas. GEF funds were programmed to analyze those experiences, develop specific
models for each Protected Area, conduct follow-up of the implementation of the models
to be able to identify and disseminate lessons learned. This subcomponent required the
participation of selected communities.
 To monitor and evaluate the conservation of biodiversity and implementation of
SNAP's monitoring system. As part of the component there was to be the design of a
system for measuring the efficiency of the conservation programs and provide guidance
to SERNAP for decision-making. The expected outcome was a system that could be
applied at a low cost as part of the daily activities of park personnel and provide critical
information to support the conservation and management of Protected Areas.

Within this component contracts were give: (a) in 2001 for short consultancies to
conduct a diagnosis of the Protected Areas and generate a conceptual basis for the
implementation of resource management projects within SNAP; (b) in 2003 for the
identification of criteria for prioritizing the Protected Areas; and (c) for the identification
and implementation of 10 pilot projects. There was a delay in the implementation of the
pilot projects because of the requirement for 15% national counterpart financing. Among
the project implemented were the production of cacao, hearts of palm, honey, and coffee.

With regard to the monitoring system, the project starting from zero, as previous work on
such a system had been lost. A consultancy designed the system, which included a
system for the measurement of the management effectiveness of SNAP. This system



                                                46

was developed prior to the introduction of a similar methodology by the World Bank and
WWF. Nevertheless, the methods development by the SERNAP consultancy was highly
compatible with the Bank's instrument and it was possible to make consistent the
respective scales for evaluating management.




                                           47

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

Economic:

Type: Incremental Cost Analysis

The project's general objective was to contribute to the conservation of Bolivia 's highly
diverse biota by generating a long-term development strategy and establishing a reliable
basis for sustainability of its protected area system. The GEF alternative would achieve
these outputs at a total incremental cost of $15.0 million.

Under the Baseline scenario, Bolivia was to be able to manage a sub-set of its protected
areas, (mostly those that received support through the GEF Pilot Phase Project) as well as
to maintain an adequate level of central support to the system. Total expenditures under
the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$ 28.69 million.

Under the GEF Alternative scenario, Bolivia was to be able to set the basis for
sustainability of its SNAP based on long-term planning and social and financial tools.
This will result in an organic system of protected areas with presence of SERNAP and
with mechanisms in place to achieve effective management. Specific outcomes include:
(i) Integrated approach for SNAP that responds to social, economic, and political
realities; clear long-term "State Vision" for the SNAP;
(ii) Ecoregional representation within the SNAP, and greater coverage of globally
significant areas.
(iii) Establishment of financial mechanisms that will stabilize the fiscal burden on the
state;
(iv) Increased community participation, system ownership, and poverty alleviation in
areas in and around protected areas;
(v) Established basis for sustainability at all levels (social, financial, and ecological);
(vi) Definition of long-term management needs for the entire system and identification of
funding gaps; (vii) (vii)Development of biological monitoring and evaluation systems.

Total expenditures under the GEF Alternative scenario were estimated at US$ 43.56
million.

Financial
The assumptions at Appraisal were the following:

The total project costs of US$43.69 million was to be divided between investment
(US$31.95 million) and recurrent (US$11.74 million) costs. The resources to fund these
costs will be provided by a variety of sources: Government of Bolivia (US$4.50 million);
FUNDESNAP (US$2.29 million); FONAMA Trust Fund (US$4.61); GEF (US$15.00
million); Government of Germany (US$11.37 million); Government of the Netherlands
(US$5.37 million); and local NGOs (US$0.55 million). During the operational period,
US$2.08 million will be required to cover recurrent and investment costs in the 10



                                               48

priority areas supported by GEF and in the central unit of SERNAP. These resources will
be provided by government, international and NGO sources.

FUNDESNAP income was estimated based on an investment plan contemplating a 6.5%
annual net return and additional endowment resources of US$1.0 million per year during
the five years of the project. FUNDESNAP disbursements from the Trust Fund income
will be used to finance primarily the recurrent costs of the management of the 10 priority
PAs supported by GEF. The recurrent costs for other areas was to be progressively
covered, as additional funds are raised by FUNDESNAP; this would allow for shifting
other donors' resources to additional investment and technical assistance, as needed.

It was assumed that FUNDESNAP was to raise $5 million in capital contributions during
the 5 year project, and $15 million in endowment capital. However, given the uncertainty
about the flow of these contributions over time, it was difficult at that stage to estimate
the potential income generated by them during the first phase.

Fiscal impact: The total Government of Bolivia contribution to the project was projected
to be US$3.3 million over five years. In July 2000, under the Comprehensive
Development Framework, the GOB committed increasing amounts to SERNAP:
US$600,000 for the year 2000, US$700,000 for 2001, and US$800,000 for 2002. For the
following years, these contributions were to come from resources generated from the
national system of protected areas with additional funds provided by the central budget to
ensure a minimum total contribution of US$0.6 million annually. The SNAP was
projected to generate US$1.5 million over the five years of the project implying an
additional US$1.5 million allocation from the central budget. These resources were to be
used to support both protected area and central unit recurrent and investment costs. In
addition, the GOB was to provide counterpart resources necessary to cover any taxes on
goods purchased through the project (estimated at US$0.1 million over the five years of
the project).

The situation at the closing of the project taking into consideration the Incremental Cost
Analysis and the Financial assumptions at Appraisal is assessed as follows:

Based on the costs and financial information at closing (Annex 2), the total project costs
decreased to US $ 36.47, corresponding to 83.7% of the amount estimated at Appraisal.
It is important to mention that GEF resources were mostly invested throughout the five
project component as originally planned, the funding shortages mainly correspond to the
GOB and parallel financing that was not provided as projected. Although some key
aspects of the project such as the Master Plan, the legal framework and the conversion of
staff were not achieved, it could not be directly attributed to the financial shortage, other
factors such as institutional instability weighted much more on the final results. These
facts can take us to the conclusion that project costs were over-estimated compared to the
period of implementation and the expected outcomes.

The only component of the financial plan that had a direct impact on achieving some of
the project objectives was the GOB fiscal crisis and the impossibility to provide the



                                              49

counterpart financing, only 27% of the originally committed amount was provided
during the life of the project. This decision was partially solved with the decision by the
Bank to apply the new Country Financing Parameters (100% financing to all expenditure
categories), however key aspects such as the protected areas staff conversion was not
fulfilled. The alternative mechanisms proposed under the Strategic Financial Plan, if
implemented, might solve to some extent this financing gap.

As indicated in other sections of the ICR, FUNDESNAP was able to raise $5 million in
capital contributions during the 5 years of the project and $15 million in endowment
capital and except for short periods, it was able to maintain average annual returns of 6.5
%.

In contrast, many of the relevant processes such as protected areas Management Plans,
the Strategic Financial Plan and the previous baseline studies to implement the
biodiversity management plans were directly assumed by SERNAP with a strong support
of the project technical team. Contrasting with the option of contracting with external
consultants or firms, this alternative saved costs to the project. This provided with
additional funding to protected areas infrastructure, substantially increasing management
efficiency.

The implementation of pilot biodiversity management project in five protected areas
provided an opportunity to increase the co-financing of the project from different
sources, including the in kind contribution provided by the beneficiary communities.




                                              50

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                    Title              Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Gonzalo Castro         Lead Environmental
                       Specialist              GEF

Silvia Charpentier     Consultant              LCSSD
Irani G. Escolano       Procurement Spec.      LCSPT
Richard M. Huber       Consultant              LCSEN
Christine E. Kimes     Sr Operations Off.      AFTRL
Maximo Liberman        Consultant              LCCBO
Juan Antonio Martinez
Yanes                                          LCSSD

Kathleen G. Mikitin    Sr Auditor              IADDR

Elizabeth Monosowski   Sr Environmental
                       Spec.                   LCSEN         Task Team Leader

Jeffrey Muller         Natural Resources
                       Economist               LCSAR

Alberto Ninio          Lead Counsel            LEGEN
Elma I. Rossel         Executive Assistant     LCCBO

Paul Edwin Sisk        Sr Financial
                       Management Specia       SARFM

David F. Varela         Sr Public Sector Spec. LCSPS         Country Lawyer
Supervision/ICR
Gabriela Arcos         Environmental Spec.     LCSEN         TTL since January 2005
Carla Avellan           Consultant             LCCEC
Miriam Cespedes        Procurement Asst.       LCSPT
Marcello R. Coelho     Operations Analyst      LCSRF
Alexandra Del Castillo Team Assistant          LCSSD
Lourdes Consuelo       Financial Management
Linares                Specialis               LCSFM

Isabella Micali Drossos Sr Counsel             LEGLA         Country Lawyer

Elizabeth Monosowski   Sr Environmental
                       Spec.                   LCSEN         Task Team Leader

Stefano P. Pagiola     Sr Environmental
                       Econ.                   ENV

Santiago V. Sandoval   Language Program
                       Assistant               LCSEN

Marianela Zeballos      Consultant             LCSUW


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.      Date ISR            IP               GEO        Actual Disbursements (USD


                                              51

          Archived                                                      M)

1   06/19/2001         Satisfactory Satisfactory                                   0.38

2   11/28/2001         Satisfactory Highly Satisfactory                            6.49

3   05/22/2002         Satisfactory Highly Satisfactory                            7.20

4   12/20/2002         Satisfactory Highly Satisfactory                            8.05

5   06/17/2003         Satisfactory Satisfactory                                   8.49

6   11/19/2003         Satisfactory Satisfactory                                   9.11

7   06/21/2004         Satisfactory Satisfactory                                   9.77

8   08/19/2004         Satisfactory Satisfactory                                  10.18

9   05/04/2005                      Satisfactory                                  11.53
10 11/18/2005                       Satisfactory                                  12.69
11 05/30/2006                       Satisfactory                                  14.39

12 12/14/2006                       Moderately
                                   Satisfactory                                   14.48


(c) Staff Time and Cost


                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                               No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY99                                                          82.54
                    FY00                                          4              112.09
                    FY01                                                          97.40
                    FY02                                                           0.00
                    FY03                                                           0.00
                    FY04                                                           0.00
                    FY05                                                           0.00
                    FY06                                                           0.00
                    FY07                                                           0.00
                                      Total:                     4               292.03
Supervision/ICR
                    FY99                                                           1.40
                    FY00                                          1                2.40




                                            52

FY02                    48.13
FY03                    62.98
FY04                    63.34
FY05                    64.90
FY06                    31.80
FY07                    17.61
        Total:    1    297.82




            53

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Moderately Satisfactory




                                         54

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       55

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  56

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Ms. Connie Luff
Manager, World Bank in Bolivia
La Paz

I refer to correspondence no. BIRF-E of 2006 through which you request the presentation
of a final evaluation report of the GEF II project, No. 24704. I am please to present to
you the following final evaluation report.

I. BACKGROUND

The GEF II project entitled "Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas"
corresponds to a grant project of the Global Environment Facility through the World
Bank to the government of Bolivia. The project was approved on February 16, 2001 and
began implementation in April 2001. The project had the objective of protecting
biodiversity and representative ecosystems of Bolivia through activities and management
of a team of consultants and personnel who work in the National Protected Area Service
(SERNAP).

The fundamental objective of GEF II project, and its first phase of five years, is to ensure
the sustainable management of the System of National Protected Areas (SNAP) through
the implementation of activities in five components or lines of action described below.

COMPONENT 1.- Institutional and Policy Development
This component included a group of activities that allowed SERNAP to develop basic
technical knowledge through the development of tools and policies. Among these
activities are:
a)    Elaboration of a Master Plan and Analysis of Gaps in Representativity of SNAP,
and study for the re-categorization and demarcation of the boundaries of protected areas,
b)    Institutional and financial strategic plan for SNAP,
c)    Development of mechanisms for the generation of SNAP's own resources,
d)    Institutional strengthening,
e)    Contracting of a project coordinator.

COMPONENT 2.- Management of Priority Protected Areas
This component provides technical and financial assistance to ensure the effective
management of all of the protected areas of the system for which the project provides
financial support for 10 priority areas. For the achievement of these activities the
following activities were planned:
a) Strengthening of the operational capacity of the 10 areas,
b) Construction of infrastructure and procurement of equipment for the protected areas,
c) Financial of management plans for protected areas,
d) Strengthening of local participation in the management of SNAP.

COMPONENT 3: Legal and Regulatory Framework



                                              57

This component proposed the development and approval of the Protected Areas Law and
the development of a range of sectoral environmental regulations. They included:

a) The establishment of a participative process for the elaboration of the Protected
Areas Law so that it would be approved by the Parliament,
b) Review and proposal of amendments to sector regulations,
c) Preparation of specific regulations for the management of protected areas (zoning,
environmental impacts, tourism, concessions).

COMPONENT 4.- Financial Sustainability:
This involves financial support for the establishment of the trust fund administered by
FUNDESNAP (a public/private institution). The resources generated by the trust fund
would serve for the management and sustainable support of the 10 priority protected
areas of the GEF II project.

COMPONENT 5.- Management of Biodiversity and Monitoring of Protected Areas:
This component was designed to consolidate the management and monitoring of the
protected areas and their buffer zone. It has two subcomponents: a) development of the
biodiversity models and management of natural resources in the protected areas, b)
monitoring and evaluation for the conservation of biodiversity.

II. RESULTS AND EVALUATION OF THE AGREEMENT

COMPONENT 1.- Institutional and Policy Development:
Elaboration of the Master Plan:
The GEF II Project Coordination team elaborated the Management Plan for the System
that constituted the basic instrument for planning and management of SNAP, which
oriented the strategic development of the System. The SNAP Management Plan
document contains the policies, principles, diagnostic, objectives, lines of action,
management instruments, and strategies for the implementation of the plan. This
instrument constituted the foundation so that the new management of SERNAP will be
able to define with the inhabitants and others involved in the protected areas SNAP's
management guidelines.

Analysis of Representativity Gaps of SNAP:
This consultancy was satisfactorily conducted within the established timeframe, using an
analysis of approximately 50 ecological units as the basis for analyzing the
representativity of SNAP with regard to ecosystems, the state of conservation of
ecosystems, and the singularity of ecosystems. In addition the level of degradation or
man-made conversion from recent or historical impacts was analyzed. Other factors
were also reviewed, including those related to indigenous peoples and protected areas
and conservation. Also included was a preliminary analysis of ecosystems which offer
environmental services related to the prevention of erosion on hillsides, the regulation of
water flows, and the storing of carbon dioxide.

Study for the re-categorization and demarcation of protected area boundaries:
The study was not carried out because of difficulties with some indigenous peoples in the


                                             58

final years of the project who were demanding the elimination of protected areas,
especially by communities located next to protected areas, as such is the case in Ambor,
Carrasco, Piln Lajas, Tipnis, El Palmar and Madidi. To re-categorize and demarcate
new boundaries implied a process involving great risk for the protected areas and the
system as a whole. Important in these final years was the incorporation in the national
system of a new protected area, El Iao, in the Department of Chuquisaca. This protected
area was promoted by the local population.

Institutional strategic plan:
This study included the realization of the Institutional Strategic Plan, the Proposal for the
Organizational Design of SERNAP, and the Implementation Plan. La vision for
SERNAP was defined as well as five strategic objectives which constituted the themes
around which actions and indicators of the strategic plan were developed. The plan
includes nine strategies which guide the activities to be carried out. The organizational
structure includes that of the Central Unit of SERNAP and the modular organizational
structure of the Protected Areas which can be adapted depending on the particularities of
each Protected Area. An implementation plan and proposed, draft regulation for
organization and functions were also developed. This consultancy had some problems
in becoming finalized because of the change in SERNAP directors which didn't allow a
timely approval of the products generated. Final payment for the consultancy will be
made with non-project, SERNAP resources.

Financial strategic plan of SNAP:
SERNAP elaborated a financial strategic plan for the next ten years with financing from
KfW. A second phase of the plan, a strategy to obtain additional resources, was financed
by TNC.

Development of mechanisms for the generation of own resources by SNAP:
SERNAP developed and implemented mechanisms for the generation of resources in
three protected areas (Madidi, Toro Toro and the Reserva Eduardo Avaroa) through the
establishment of SISCO (system of entrance charges for ecotourism visitors) A
consultancy was contracted regarding alternative fee collection procedures for SNAP.

Institutional Strengthening:
During the six years of the project, GEF II financed the contracting of personnel for
SERNAP's central unit and also some technical personnel in the protected areas. In the
central unit an average of 20 to 25 consultants were contracted, in different stages of the
project, working in support of the Legal, Planning, and Monitoring Divisions. This
included the contracting of specialists in environmental and administrative law, budget,
tourism, information systems, communications, geographical information systems,
biology, environmental monitoring, resource management, participatory and social
processes, etc. In response to the needs of protected areas, technical personnel were
contracted to assist with ecotourism training, environmental education, legal problems,
and municipal and organizational strengthening.

Contracting of a Project Coordinator:



                                             59

A project coordinator was contracted who maintained his position during the entire
implementation of the project, in spite of the reductions of salary to less than half the
original amount and the passing of 9 different directors of SERNAP in the six years of
the project. He was accompanied by a team composed of an administrator, technical
assistant, and support person. His work consisted of coordinating different activities of
the project including the preparation of terms of reference for consultancies, follow-up of
the implementation of these consultancies, and the administration of financial resources.
He undertook a range of administrative tasks including: signing of checks, receipts and
payroll of personnel in SERNAP's central unit and protected areas contracted by the
project; and presentation of quarterly and annual project reports. The coordinator wrote,
together with another consultant, a book entitled "The use of land and biodiversity
resources in Bolivia 's protected areas," which summarized the state of conservation of
Bolivia 's protected areas and presented a critical analysis of proposals for its
conservation and sustainable management.

COMPONENT 2.- Management of Priority Protected Areas:
Strengthening of the operational capacity in the 10 priority protected areas:
The operational capacity of the protected areas was strengthened by the payment of the
salaries of technical and administrative personnel (directors, heads of protection, park
guards, administrators, drivers and secretaries) during the project period. In the protected
areas professionals were also contracted in tourism, land titling, environmental
education, communications, resource management, etc. Training was given to park
guards and heads of protection. There were also special courses regarding
environmental impact and monitoring.

Construction of infrastructure and procurement of equipment for the protected
areas:
Seventeen infrastructure works in the 10 protected areas supported by the GEF II project
were designed and constructed. Works constructed included: interpretation centers, and
principal and secondary encampments. All infrastructure works had environmental
impact studies. The operational capacity of the protected areas was strengthened with
the purchase of office equipment (photocopiers, computers, and printers), furniture
(bookcases, tables, desks, etc.), radio transmitters, pumps, solar panels, and transport
vehicles (pick-up trucks, four-wheel drives, boats, bicycles, etc.).

Financing of protected areas management plans:
The elaboration and implementation of management plans were financed for the
following protected areas: Reserva Eduardo Avaroa; Estacin Biolgica del Beni, El
Palmar, Apolobamba and Sama. The management plan for Toro Toro was contracted, but
the contract was rescinded due to poor execution by the consultant.

Strengthening of local participation in the management of SNAP:
During the project, the participation of inhabitants in the management committees of the
10 protected areas supported by the project was financed. The cost of travel for the
community representatives from the interior of the protected area or buffer zone was paid
for by the project. With the objective of strengthening local participation in the



                                             60

management of protected areas, consultants in participation, organization, and socio-
cultural issues were contracted.

COMPONENT 3: Legal and Regulatory Framework
Protected Areas Law
On two occasions participatory processes were undertaken for the elaboration of
proposals for a Protected Areas Law to be approved by parliament. On one occasion, the
proposed law received the first stage of approval ("en grande") by the Chamber of
Deputies of the Parliament. Unfortunately, no further progress was made due to the
political instability of the country. SERNAP authorities decided not to continue with the
initiative because of the risk of negatively affecting the current legal framework (i.e.
having a new law passed that was weaker than the existing law). This decision was
accepted by GEF.

Review and proposals for amendments to sector regulations:
The most important achievement was the incorporation in the new Hydrocarbon Law of
articles requiring prospecting for new sites of hydrocarbon extraction in protected areas
to conduct Strategic Environmental Evaluations. This law provides opportunities for the
involvement of local actors through their representatives. Regulations for the law were
developed that include specific terms of reference for such prospecting projects that are
conducted in the interior or buffer zones of protected areas.

COMPONENT 4.- Financial sustainability:
This component provided financial support for the establishment of the trust fund
administered by FUNDESNAP.

COMPONENT 5.- Management of biodiversity and monitoring of protected areas

Development of biodiversity models and management of natural resources in
protected areas. Various studies were carried out, including: "Biodiversity Products in
Protected Areas, "Diagnostic of the Potentials and Barriers for the Provision of
Environmental Services in SNAP", "Market Analysis for Biodiversity Services and
Products," "Project for the Commercialization and Marketing of Biodiversity Products,"
and "Ecological, community production of ornamental plants in protected areas."
Among the projects for resource management and conservation were:
     Exploitation of water resources and enrichment of the native forests in El Palmar,
        Department of Chuquisaca.
     Improvement of the capacity to produce and commercialize ecological coffee in
        Pilon Lajas, Departament of Beni.
     Management and commercialization of ecological cacao in Madidi, Department
        of La Paz.
     Management of jatata in Piln Lajas, Department of La Paz.
     Exploitation of water resources in Sama, Department of Tarija.
     Management and production of honey in Piln Lajas, Department of Beni.
     Management of Brazil nut in Manuripi, Department of Pando.




                                             61

Monitoring and evaluation for biodiversity conservation
A system of environmental monitoring has been developed for the protected areas.
Monitoring is a management tool through which the collection, systematization and
analysis of information allows the state of conservation and the economic, productive,
political, cultural and social factors in the Protected Areas to be documented in order to
orient decision-making. It was decided to conduct an experiment in three pilot protected
areas (Reserva Eduardo Avaroa, Ambor and the Estacin Biolgica del Beni) with a
group of limited indicators that would serve as an example of the distinct problems in
order to tailor the monitoring program to logistical limitations. In each pilot area
indicators were selected that best represented the monitoring priorities of that area,
working from an analysis of baseline information relating to the objectives of
conservation, the principle threats, and integrating both subjects, the principle conflicts.
The monitoring program focused on modeling the information flow from the collecting
of field data to the methodological aspects of analyzing the data. The set of indicators
allowed for the definition of the state of the natural resources, their threats, management
and the surrounding socio-economic dynamic; detailed methodologies and formats were
developed.

IV. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
     The interest from the trust fund will finance the operational and personnel costs
        of a great part of the system's protected areas..
     The conservation of biodiversity had increased in SNAP.
     The SNAP park guards have been trained to carry out protection functions in the
        protected areas of the system.
     Protected Areas have been incorporated to the National Development Plan,
        strategies have been incorporated for: a) socially sustainable economic
        development with social participation in the management of protected areas; b)
        the promotion of bio-commercial products and services; c) the preservation and
        conservation of biological and cultural diversity; d) the positioning of
        biodiversity products in international markets; e) the conservation of ecosystems,
        species, and genetic resources of ecological importance; d) for the sustainable use
        and conservation of biodiversity.
     The successful experiences in the management of biodiversity resources in
        protected areas show that it is possible to make conservation compatible with
        sustainable development. These activities are alternatives for the inhabitants of
        the protected areas.
     Environmental regulations for hydrocarbon projects increase the possibility of
        biodiversity protection in protected areas of the system.

V. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION AND
MANAGEMENT UNIT
        The management of financial resources by the project has followed the
        procedures of the World Bank, although there have been a few observation in the
        external audit reports.
        The procedures for selecting and contracting consulting firms and individual
        experts has been realized based on the requirements of the World Bank, although



                                               62

      there are some observations by the external procurement audit regarding the
      ECYT S.R.L firm..
      During the implementation of the project, the Coordination Unit of the project
      maintained constant coordination with the institutions directly involved in the
      development of the project such as the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
      Planning, SERNAP, the Vice Ministry of Public Investment, other agencies of
      international cooperation, and the World Bank.

VI. EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF SERNAP
    During the project there have been problems because of the instability and lack of
      continuity of the SERNAP authorities. The changes, including a total of nine
      directors, technical personnel, and technical managers, affected the
      implementation of activities planned for the GEF II project.
    The lack of counterpart resources committed by the government of Bolivia
      delayed the implementation of many consultancies and infrastructure works.
    Some consultancies, especially for Component 4 regarding the legal and
      regulatory framework, could not be carried out due to the political instability in
      the country.


VII. EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK
    In general, the performance of the technical and administrative personnel of the
      World Bank can be considered good.
    The no objections to terms of reference and disbursements in general were
      attended to rapidly. In only on opportunity, when modifications were being
      made to the disbursement system and there was a proposal to finance project
      costs at a rate of 100% was there a delay that affected project performance.
    Recommendations of the aide memoires helped in the majority of cases to
      usefully orient and re-direct the activities of the project.
    The two task managers who worked with the project were actively involved in
      following the activities of the project. It is notable that they had prolonged and
      important presences in the protected areas that they visited.
    The technical administrative personnel of the Bank were always ready to resolve
      problems and recommend actions to lead to effective financial performance of the
      project.

VIII. CONCLUSIONS
    In general, it can be concluded that in spite of the grave problems of political
      instability in the country that resulted in changes in the leadership of SERNAP,
      the GEF II project was able to achieve the majority of its objectives.
    The political problems of the country and the excessive paperwork and waiting
      time, within the national government and within the World Bank, delayed
      implementation of some programmed activities and in other cases some
      consultancies had to be cancelled.

IX. RECOMMENDATION



                                            63

     Considering the technical and financial achievements of the GEF II project which
        facilitated the achievement of the majority of its objectives, the financing of a
        new phase of the project is recommended in order to consolidate the benefits of
        the first phase.

_________________________________________________________


Foundation for the Development of the National System of Protected Areas of Bolivia
                                      (FUNDESNAP)
                                        Final Report
                               Grant Agreement TF024707



This report corresponds to the final evaluation of FUNDESNAP with respect to
Component 4, Sustainable Financing, of the National System of Protected Areas Project,
Grant Agreement no. TF024707

CONSOLIDATION OF THE FINANCIAL TRUST FUND OF SNAP AS PART OF
THE GEF II, PHASE I, PROJECT

FUNDESNAP has been able to coordinate with different sources of bilateral, multi-lateral
and private founders to achieve the capitalization of a trust fund for SNAP, in alliance and
collaboration with the government and its public policies.

By 2001, an initial trust fund was created within FUNDESNAP with capital transferred
from the Fondo Nacional del Medio Ambiente (FONAMA), amounting to US$ 4,923,121.
In the period 2001 to 2005 this seed fund grew with additional capital donations to
US$13,787,625 in FUNDESNAP.

The GEF II, Phase I project contributed in 2001 US$5,030,496, resulting in the total, initial
capitalization of FUNDESNAP of US$9,953,617. The FUNDESNAP capitalization target
established for the project was US$15 million. This goals was met in the following way:




                      Consolidated Capital for the SNAP Trust Fund
                              by FUNDESNAP, 2001  2006
                                            US$




                                             64

                    Sources                      Date of                Capital
                                        Consolidation/Donation
           Switzerland                             2001                1,479,801
           PL-480 (USA )                           2001                1,000,000
(*) The    Great Britain                           2001                2,443,320     only
           GEF- World Bank                         2001                5,030,496
           CAPITALIZATION
           German Trust Fund(*)                    2002                2,784,006
           Gas Oriente Boliviano                   2002                  400,000
           Madidi Trust Fund                       2005                  650,000
           Andean Development
           Corporation (**)                        2006                1,000,000

           Security margin
           established from gains                   2006                 212,377
           on portfolio (***)

                                  TOTAL                               15,000,000


extinguishable fund in FUNDESNAP..

(**) Established capitalization agreement of the Servicio Nacional de Caminos,
SERNAP and FUNDESNAP, amount to be disbursed through the end of September
2006.

(***) Portfolio gains used to increase the capital as a security margin.


         Source: Agreements of FUNDESNAP

Eighty percent of these funds are part of a perpetual trust fund, and 20% are part of an
extinguishable trust fund. Of the perpetual trust fund, 90% come from bilateral and multi-
lateral and 10% from private sources.

MANAGEMENT OF THE SNAP TRUST FUND

a. Administration of the SNAP Trust Fund

The administration of the SNAP Trust Fund in FUNDESNAP involves three levels of
management and coordination that permit an efficient management of the fund, exchange
of information, timely controls and high levels of security.

The fund is fundamentally governed by an investment strategy expressed in the
Investment Guidelines which were established jointly by the financial supporters of the
Fund and are reflected in their respective, official agreements.




                                             65

To manage the funds various levels of management and coordination mechanisms were
established:
     The Asset Manager was selected by an open international recruitment process,
        receiving the review and no objection by the World Bank and other founders.
        The Asset Manager is responsible for the supervision of the funds. Currently the
        Asset Manager is Solomon, Smith and Barney of City Group. The Asset
        Manager manages the buying and selling of investment instruments based on
        instructions from FUNDESNAP. The Asset Manager maintains a permanent
        information system on line and provides monthly reports to FUNDESNAP.
     The Financial Advisor is located within FUNDESNAP and advises on the
        management of investments and positioning of resources. Currently the Financial
        Advisor is Master Capital S. A., headquartered in Mexico, which has a lot of
        international experience with environment funds.
     FUNDESNAP management administers the investments and provides the general
        management of the Trust Fund with the help of the Financial Advisor and in
        coordination with the Investment Committee of the FUNDESNAP Board of
        Directors, in accordance with FUNDESNAP's established investment strategy
        and guidelines.
     Investment Committee of the FUNDESNAP Board of Directors provides
        monitoring and control of the management of the Trust Fund, and issues policies
        and recommendations to be applied by FUNDESNAP management in the
        management of the portfolio.

These levels of management, coordination and monitoring permit a secure, efficient and
balanced administration of the SNAP Trust Fund under the control of the Foundation.

b. Mechanisms for safeguarding capital

Mechanisms for safeguarding the capital invested were established as part of
FUNDESNAP's investment guidelines. A margin of security, or risk-free reserve fund,
was established.1[1]. This reserve fund was calculated based on the average volatility of
the investment instruments and takes up between 3% and 5% of the portfolio.

In a similar way, new funds (e.g. the case of the Madidi Trust Fund) will not be used
during the first year (period of establishment), and until the maturity of the portfolio is
secured.

INDICATORS OF PERFORMANCE OF FUNDESNAP

Consolidation of US$13,787,623, with a rate of capitalization (growth of the initial seed
capital) of 280% in 4 years by FUNDESNAP, with the completion of US$15 million by
September 2006 with funds committed by CAF.

FUNDESNAP has achieved an average annual return in the last four years of 6.19%.




                                            66

The trust funds and extinguishable funds allow for financing of 31.5% of the basic costs of
SNAP, within the framework defined by SERNAP as the responsible public entity.

Between 2002 and June 2006 FUNDESNAP achieved a cash flow of US$3,853,751,
equivalent to 28% of the capital in the trust fund.


June 30, 2006

Sergio Eguino
Executive Director

FUNDESNAP




                                             67

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comment from the Embassy of the Netherlands:

Collaboration and Inter-relationship among the World Bank, the GEF Project, and
                             the Embassy of the Netherlands

The Embassy of the Netherlands has supported the System of National Protected Areas
(SNAP) through the National Protected Areas Service (SERNAP) since 1996, under a
twenty-year agreement.

This long term support has allowed PASNAPH (the name of the project) to serve as a
foundation of support for SERNAP's institutional structure and basic operations,
principally in response to needs arising from the emergencies it has faced rather than the
implementation of the project design,

Because of the diversification of sources of financing, the impulse given by the GEF
project to the definition of a framework document and related strategic plans, and the
commitments made to reaching "harmonization," the external cooperation agencies
working with SNAP and SERNAP have agreed on coordination mechanisms to
strengthen planning processes and to achieve coordinated, joint action toward the
consolidation of a sustainable system for the protected areas.

Before and after the signing of the joint agreement in March 2005, which later would
become formalized by the government at the end of that year (with the constitution of the
Committee to Promote the Integrated Program), agendas have been coordinated and
shared, consensus has been reached on actions to support and defend the institution, and
above all, there have been joint efforts to bring about a dialogue with the Bolivian
government authorities.

Although common basket financing has never been formally instituted, at an operational
level, the resources of GEF and PASNAPH have been combined to support activities and
investments in protected areas such as Manuripi, and at certain times in EBB and in Piln
Lajas, and in a sustained way in the integrated management of protected areas and
support to the national office of SERNAP.

Reciprocal support between GEF and PASNAPH has also been given to external mission
teams, to the processes of preparing new project phases and/or adjustments to existing
projects, as well as attention to similar activities of other donors.

Compared to others sectors where we are also providing support, efforts in this sector
have achieved more full collaboration and readiness for joint action. This sector has
been an area in which consensus could be reached, where it was possible to establish
agendas reflecting common interests and where we saw an openness to achieve global
objectives, something which does not frequently occur.




                                              68

Comment from the Embassy of Germany, German Cooperation in Bolivia for the
GEF II project, Phase 1
La Paz , October 6, 2006

We would like to thank the World Bank for asking us for our views on the work of the
GEF II, Phase 1 project to contribute to its evaluation. This interchange of opinions
about the project is important, especially in view of the joint efforts made since 2004 to
create an integrated program of support to the sustainable and participatory management
of protected areas.

1. Positive Aspects

The principal, positive effect of GEF II, Phase 1, has been the financial sustainability of
protected area management. This has been achieved, although not to the extent
originally envisioned, through the creation and consolidation of FUNDESNAP, and the
contribution of GEF to the trust fund capital per se and to the establishment of
administrative mechanisms within FUNDESNAP which will guarantee the ongoing
financing of the operational costs of SNAP. In addition, the project contributed to the
financing of investments in infrastructure, operations and personnel in 10 protected areas
and the central unit of SERNAP during the 5 years of implementation.

2. Problematic Aspects

With regard to other aspects of the institutional and technical management, the effects of
the project have been less successful, visible and sustainable. This refers to the
components addressing legal-political issues, the management of natural resources, and
monitoring. In general terms, there was little flexibility in the planning and
implementation of the project given the processes of rapid change in the political, social
and institutional context experienced within Bolivia during recent years, which reduced
considerably the potential impact of the project.

The following is a summary of the internal elements of the project which may have
influence performance:

2.1 Design of the project
     The project was too ambitious and insufficiently realistic with regard to its targets
       in the policy, regulatory and technical areas; for example, the processes required
       for the achievement of agreement regarding the Protected Areas Law was
       underestimated (this process was initiated two times by the project and remained
       inconclusive).
     The project was oriented toward achieving "products," and not "processes" which
       were required by the political, social and institutional context of the country.
     The project approach to planning and implementation was one of "classical"
       conservation, with an emphasis on the "defensive" environmental preservation;
       among other ways, this was expressed in a monitoring system oriented toward



                                             69

        biological monitoring and giving little real weight to the natural resource
        management subcomponent (less than 4% of the investment went for pilot natural
        resource management projects).

2.2 Structure and modality of implementation
     In spite of an initial proposal to conduct joint missions, evaluations, consultations
        and coordination between SERNAP and the various donors, in practice this only
        was initiated with the processes for developing the Plan Integral in 2004 with was
        undertaken by SERNAP with the support of various donors, including
        GEF/World Bank. In the first years of the project important opportunities to
        create synergy with other projects were lost.
     Project implementation delays occurred because of slow procedures and parallel
        administrative mechanisms (the heavy bureaucracy of GEF, depending on "no
        objections" from Washington, etc.).
     SERNAP did not participate sufficiently in the administrative processes carried
        out by the GEF Implementing Unit.
     There was limited and deficient technical coordination; coordination was focused
        more on administrative than technical issues, with little qualitative follow-up of
        the consultancies; this was notable in the elaboration of the protected area
        management plans and in the local natural resource and biodiversity management
        projects, which by their nature require constant accompaniment.
     There was a lack of ownership by SERNAP to the range of changes required and
        delays in incorporation of these changes in among other things the Master Plan
        and the Institutional Strategic Plan.

3. General Assessment of Results

     There were positive effects related to financial sustainability and the financing of
        personnel and operations.
     There were also products and positive results that will endure beyond the
        conclusion of the projects, however with limited concrete utility for system
        management; among others: i) The study of gaps of representativity; ii) Technical
        work done in the areas of participation, biodiversity management, the Constituent
        Assembly, biological monitoring, and management effectiveness (MEMS) and
        iii) Management plans for certain protected areas, although they have some
        deficiencies related to the participation and ownership by social
        actors/community stakeholders
     There are other products which are not sustainable and which are not applicable
        to the reality of system management, for example the monitoring system which
        ended up being overly complex
     There is little local capacity in the protected areas to sustain the projects initiated.
        Attention was not paid to training.
     Contributions to the structure and policies of SERNAP and SNAP were limited.

This situation is obviously due, in part, to factors external to the project (political and
institutional), frequent changes and inefficiencies in SERNAP management, as well as



                                              70

the factors mentioned above.

German Embassy in La Paz

Philipp Knill




                                71

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No. 21447-BO, December 20, 2000
Global Enviroment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement No. 24702
Global Enviroment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement No. 24707
Aide Memoire Mid-Term Review and Technical Report, October, 2003
GEFSEC Independent Assessment Mid-term Review, October, 2003
SERNAP, Independent Assessment of Parts A, B, and C of the Project, March, 2006
FUNDESNAP, Independent Assesment of Part D of the Project, January, 2006
Country Assistance Strategy, Report no. IDA/R, 1998
SERNAP, Final Report of Parts A, B and C, June, 2006
FUNDESNAP, Final Report of Part D, June, 2006




                                            72

MAP




       73

