Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT No. 24704
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas Project - SERNAP)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated February 16, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT No. 24704
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (Bolivia) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as 
Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (the GEF), in respect of Grant 
funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of its 
Executive Directors, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
WHEREAS (B) following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund, 
authorized the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as 
Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
WHEREAS (C) the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, 
and  said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  2
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution 94-2 and to be funded from the resources of the GEF Trust 
Fund;
WHEREAS (E) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, also acting 
as Implementing Agency of the GEF, and 
Fundación para el Desarrollo del Sistema 
Nacional de Areas Protegidas (FUNDESNAP), the Bank has agreed to make available 
additional GEF resources, on a grant basis, for the carrying out of Part D of the 
Project in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to four million one-hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,100,000) (the FUNDESNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant), 
but only on condition that Bolivia agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth on this Agreement;
WHEREAS (F) Bolivia has received from the Government of the Kingdom of the 
Netherlands (the Netherlands), grants (the Dutch Grants) in an aggregate amount 
equivalent to approximately $5,370,000 to assist in financing Bolivia’s national 
system of protected areas (Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas - SNAP) on the terms 
and conditions set forth in agreements (the Dutch Grant Agreements) entered into 
between Bolivia and the Netherlands;
WHEREAS (G) Bolivia has received from the Government of Germany (Germany), 
grants (the German Grants) in an amount equivalent to approximately $11,370,000 to 
assist in financing SNAP on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the 
German Grant Agreements) entered into between Bolivia and Germany;
WHEREAS (H) Bolivia, the Netherlands, Germany and the Bank intend to enter into 
agreements regulating certain matters of common interest in connection with such 
financing; 
WHEREAS (I) the Bank has received a letter dated November 29, 2000 from Bolivia 
describing Bolivia’s program for SNAP during the period 2000 to 2015 (the SNAP 
Program), of which the Project constitutes the first phase, setting forth Bolivia’s 
plan of actions over the medium and longer term to achieve the development and 
strengthening of SNAP; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant to Bolivia upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) (8), (9), (10), 
(14), (15), (16), (18) and (21), 2.02 and 
2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) 
and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
Page  3
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Section 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles 
of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof, and the last 
use 
of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting 
as an 
Implementing Agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means Bolivia;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the account to be 
open by the Bank on its books in the name of Bolivia to 
which the 
amount of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant will be credited;
(vii)
a new subparagraph (q) shall be added after subparagraph (p) in 
Section 6.02 as follows:
"(q) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which 
any further disbursement under the SERNAP 
GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available 
for 
disbursement from the GEF."; and
(viii)Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) No later than six months before the Closing Date, 
Bolivia shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on 
the execution and continued operation of Parts A, B, C and E 
of 
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived 
from it, the performance by Bolivia and the Bank of 
their 
respective obligations under the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
SERNAP 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, and setting forth Bolivia’s 
recommendations 
for the commencement and execution of the second 
phase of the 
SNAP Program."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCB" means Bolivia’s central bank (Banco Central de Bolivia);
(b)
"Biodiversity Legislation" means the law to be approved by the Bolivian 
Congress for the conservation of biodiversity in the territory of Bolivia;
Page  4
(c)
"CAS Strategic Objectives for Opportunity" means Bolivia’s strategic 
objectives set forth in the second column of the table in pages 2 through 5 of Annex 
B1 to the Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association and 
the International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country 
Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Bolivia, dated May 21, 1998;
(d)
"Disbursement Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Bank to Bolivia setting forth the procedures for the withdrawal of the proceeds of the 
SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(e)
"Environmental Impact Framework" means Bolivia’s environmental impact 
framework for the civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the SERNAP GEF 
Trust Fund Grant in Selected Protected Areas (as hereafter defined) referred to in the 
letter from Bolivia to the Bank dated December 15, 2000;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means Bolivia’s fiscal year which commences on January 1 
and ends on December 31 of each calendar year;
(g)
"General Regulations for Protected Areas" means Bolivia’s general 
regulations for Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined) approved by Supreme Decree 
No. 24781 of July 31,1997;
(h)
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 
SERNAP and FUNDESNAP on October 27, 2000, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Implementation Agreement;
(i)
"Indigenous Strategy" means Bolivia’s indigenous strategy for the Project 
referred to in the letter from Bolivia to the Bank dated December 15, 2000, that 
contains the principles and guidelines for the development of indigenous peoples 
living in Selected Protected Areas (as hereafter defined); 
(j)
"Key SERNAP Personnel" means the personnel referred to in Section 6.01 
(a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(k)
"Management Council" means any council established pursuant to Article 1 
of Supreme Decree No. 25925 of October 6, 2000 and Article 47 of the General 
Regulations for Protected Areas;
(l)
"Management Plan" means any plan prepared pursuant to Article 28 of the 
General Regulations for Protected Areas;
(m)
"Ministry of Finance" means Bolivia’s ministry of finance (Ministerio de 
Hacienda);
(n)
"NRM Subproject" means any natural resource management subproject to be 
carried out by communities living in the Selected Protected Areas (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part E of the Project, as provided in the SERNAP Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined);
(o)
"Participation Arrangement" means any of the arrangements to be entered 
into between SERNAP and the Management Council of a Selected Protected Area (as 
hereinafter defined), pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and such term includes all schedules and arrangements supplemental to any 
Participation Arrangement;
(p)
"Population Issues Framework" means Bolivia’s population issues framework 
for the Project referred to in the letter from Bolivia to the Bank dated December 15, 
2000, that contains the principles and guidelines for eventual resettlement of the 
population living in Selected Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined) or limitations 
in the use of, or access to, natural resources in such Areas;
(q)
"Project Coordinator" means the Project coordinator referred to in 
Section 6.01 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Project Implementation Plan" means SERNAP’s Project implementation plan 
referred to in the letter from SERNAP to the Bank dated December 15, 2000;
(s)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(t)
"Protected Area" means any area established pursuant to Article 2 of the 
General Regulations for Protected Areas;
Page  5
(u)
"Protected Areas Legislation" means the legislation to be passed by the 
Bolivian Congress providing a permanent framework for Protected Areas in the territory 
of Bolivia;
(v)
"Selected Protected Area" means any Protected Area listed in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between 
Bolivia and the Bank; 
(w)
"SERNAP Annual Work Program" means the work program referred to in 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(x)
"SERNAP Operational Manual" means the operational manual of SERNAP 
referred to in the letter from SERNAP to the Bank dated December 15, 2000 that 
provides, inter alia: (a) detailed arrangements for the overall carrying out of Parts 
A, B, C and E of the Project including  the participation of, and consultation with, 
indigenous peoples living in the Selected Protected Areas; (b) the requirements for 
the carrying out of any civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the SERNAP 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, including the preparation of environmental and social 
assessments in accordance with the Environmental Impact Framework, and the 
implementation of the preventive and mitigation measures recommended by such 
assessments as approved by the Bank; and (c) the criteria for the selection of NRM 
Subprojects, as well as appropriate procedures for related monitoring and evaluation;
(y)
"SERNAP Performance Benchmarks" means the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives set forth in Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; 
(z)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(aa)
"Stakeholder" means any civil society organization operating in Bolivia 
interested in Protected Areas management and biodiversity conservation, including 
local communities, non-governmental organizations, and academic and scientific 
institutions.
ARTICLE II
The SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to Bolivia, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant 
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million eight-hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify Bolivia of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Bolivia declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end shall:
(a)
carry out, through SERNAP, Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, financial, ecological, environmental and conservation practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
Page  6
required for the Project; and
(b)
(i) assist FUNDESNAP in complying, in accordance with the provisions of 
the FUNDESNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, with all the obligations of FUNDESNAP 
therein set forth; and (ii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such compliance by FUNDESNAP.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as Bolivia and the Bank may otherwise agree, Bolivia shall carry 
out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project in accordance with: (a) the Key Implementation 
Provisions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (b) the Environmental Impact 
Framework; (c) the Population Issues Framework; and (d) the Indigenous Strategy, as 
applicable, so as to achieve SERNAP Performance Benchmarks.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Bolivia shall:
(a)
without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, not later than July 31 of each year during the execution of 
the Project, furnish to the Bank reports on the progress in the implementation of 
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may 
reasonably request; 
(b)
not later than September 30 of each year during Project implementation, 
hold reviews with the Bank and FUNDESNAP on the progress in the implementation of 
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, such reviews to be based on the reports referred 
to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above; and
(c)
thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have 
been agreed upon with the Bank and FUNDESNAP, during the reviews referred to in 
paragraph (b) above, as necessary or advisable for the efficient execution of Parts A, 
B, C and E of the Project and the attainment of its objectives, such action to be 
taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. Bolivia shall:
(a)
not later than October 31 of  each year, furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, a proposed annual work program prepared with participation of the 
Management Councils operating in the Selected Protected Areas and representatives of 
the Stakeholders; such program to specify the activities to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant during the following year for the purposes 
of the implementation of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project; and
(b) 
carry out such SERNAP Annual Work Program, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. Not later than September 30, 2005, Bolivia shall: 
(a)
retain the services of consultants of experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to carry 
out an independent evaluation of the implementation of Parts A, B, C and E of the 
Project; and
(b)
promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank and FUNDESNAP the report of such 
independent evaluation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Bolivia shall maintain, within SERNAP, financial management 
systems, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
Page  7
related to Parts A, B, C and E of the Project.
(b)
Bolivia shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited in 
accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the end of each such Year: 
(A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Year as so audited; 
and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the SERNAP 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, Bolivia shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal 
from the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all 
records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with 
the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, Bolivia, through SERNAP, shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for 
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project in order to enable SERNAP, not later than four (4) 
months after the Effective Date or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Parts 
A, B, C and E of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project for the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the SERNAP 
GEF Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report;
Page  8
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in the implementation of such 
Parts of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered 
by said report, and (B) explains variances between the 
actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A, B, C and E of 
the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end 
of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, Bolivia, through SERNAP, shall prepare in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
for any Fiscal Year listed in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
any of the Performance Benchmarks shall have not reached the level indicated in said 
table, provided, however, that if such event occurs, and without prejudice to the 
rights of the Bank under Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, Bolivia and the 
Bank shall exchange views on the situation in an effort to determine the most 
appropriate remedial measures to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project; 
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of 
Bolivia to withdraw the proceeds of any grant (including the 
Dutch 
Grants and the German Grants) or loan made to Bolivia for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled 
or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreements providing therefor;
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if Bolivia 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused 
by the failure of Bolivia to perform any of its 
obligations 
under such agreements; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to Bolivia from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of Bolivia under this Agreement; and
(c) 
the Biodiversity Legislation or the Protected Areas Legislation shall 
have not been approved, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, by June 30, 
2003; 
(d)
FUNDESNAP shall have failed to perform any obligation under the FUNDESNAP 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and
(e)
the FUNDESNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall have failed to become 
effective by a date which is six (6) months from the Effective Date, or such later 
date as the Bank may agree.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions precedent to the 
Page  9
effectiveness of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that: (i) a Project coordinator of experience and qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank shall have been appointed by SERNAP, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) key personnel specified in SERNAP Operational 
Manual for the implementation of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project of experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Bank shall have been selected by SERNAP, under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
that the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement 
shall have been appointed. 
Section 6.02. The date May 16, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of Bolivia; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of Bolivia is designated as representative 
of Bolivia for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For Bolivia:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Mario Requena Pinto
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Page  10
By /s/ John L. Newman
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant
Part A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant, allocation of the amounts of the SERNAP 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
SERNAP GEF Trust  
          % of
Fund Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
740,000
85%
(2)
Goods
590,000
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
and
85% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
    2,140,000
100% 
services and training
(4)
NRM Subprojects
310,000
100%
(5)
SERNAP Incremental
Recurrent Costs
(a) For SERNAP’s central offices
200,000
85%
(b) For Selected Protected Areas
(i) First year from the
          1,080,000
85%
Effective Date
(ii) Second and third years       1,090,000
70%
from the Effective Date
(iii) Fourth and fifth years      1,000,000
40%
from the Effective Date
(6)
Unallocated
850,000
TOTAL
                7,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Section A of Schedule 1, the terms:
(a)
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than Bolivia for goods supplied from the territory of any country other than 
Bolivia;
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of Bolivia or for 
goods supplied from the territory of Bolivia; 
(c)
"SERNAP Incremental Recurrent Costs" means SERNAP incremental recurrent 
administrative expenditures arising from Project implementation, including later alia: 
Page  11
(i) office space and utilities; (ii) office equipment and supplies; and (iii) staff 
salaries and benefits of the central and regional offices of SERNAP; and
(d)
"training" means expenditures incurred by SERNAP in connection with the 
carrying out of training activities under Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, 
including tuition, travel cost and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of 
facilities and equipment, and training materials.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
196,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) of the table in Part A.1 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve 
(12) months prior to the date of this Agreement.
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works, 
services, training and SERNAP Incremental Recurrent Costs, as set forth in the 
Disbursement Letter. 
Part B.
Special Account
1.
Bolivia shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account 
for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project in BCB, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and withdrawals from, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule and the procedures set forth in the 
Disbursement Letter.
2.
(a)
For the purposes of this Part B, the terms:
(i)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(ii)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures referred to in 
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the 
proceeds of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from 
time to 
time to the Eligible Categories.
(b)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made out of the Special Account, Bolivia 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, the 
Bank may require the deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
determine, require the refund to the Bank) of an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
if, at any time:
(a)
Bolivia shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; and
(b)
the Bank shall have notified Bolivia of its intention to suspend in whole 
or in part the right of Bolivia to make withdrawals from the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures 
should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify Bolivia of its 
Page  12
determination.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
In order to contribute to the achievement of the CAS Strategic Objectives for 
Opportunity, the objective of the Project is to conserve Bolivia’s globally 
significant biodiversity through the sustainable management of SNAP.
The Project, which constitutes the first phase of the SNAP Program, consists of 
the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as Bolivia, FUNDESNAP and 
the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional and Policy Development
Consolidation of SERNAP’s role as the regulatory agency of SNAP by strengthening 
its planning and management capacities and its ability to operate as an autonomous 
institution, through:
(a)
preparation of a long-term master plan that sets forth policies, 
strategies and priorities for the management of Protected Areas, and carrying out of:
(i)
analysis of biodiversity gaps; and
(ii)
studies on re-categorization, boundary demarcation, abandonment 
and legal status of Protected Areas.
(b)
preparation of SERNAP’s strategic institutional and financial plan, 
including a medium-term financial strategy;
(c)
strengthening of SERNAP’s financial collection systems and revenue 
generation mechanisms;
(d)
institutional strengthening of SERNAP in the areas of planning, 
monitoring, evaluation and management; and
(e)
setting up of Project coordination mechanisms.
Part B: 
Management of Selected Protected Areas
Strengthening of the planning and management capacities of the Management 
Councils of Selected Protected Areas aimed at enhancing participation of local 
communities in decision-making, through:
(a)
strengthening of the operational capacity of the Selected Protected 
Areas, including preparation and implementation of Management Plans, capacity-building 
and environmental education of neighboring communities; and
(b)
strengthening of local participation and inter-institutional coordination 
in the Selected Protected Areas, including the establishment and operation of the 
respective Management Councils.
Part C:
Legal and Regulatory Framework
Establishment of an adequate legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity 
conservation in Bolivia and management of SNAP, through:
(a)
preparation and dissemination of proposals for the Protected Areas 
Legislation;
(b)
review of cross-sectoral legislation, identification of gaps and 
Page  13
inconsistencies, and preparation of amendment proposals; and
(c)
preparation of specific SNAP regulations, including zoning, environmental 
protection and services, tourism and related activities within Protected Areas.
Part D:
Sustainable Financing
Strengthening of SNAP through:
(a) 
establishment and capitalization of FUNDESNAP, aimed at financing the 
incremental recurrent costs of managing the Selected Protected Areas; 
(b) 
initial support to FUNDESNAP aimed at: 
(i)
consolidating the legal, financial and operational structure of 
FUNDESNAP; and
(ii)
providing managerial and technical support to enable FUNDESNAP to 
assume its financial and administrative oversight responsibilities 
in connection with the FUNDESNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant; and
(c)
long-term operation and administration of FUNDESNAP.
Part E:
Biodiversity Management and Monitoring in Selected Protected Areas
Consolidation of resource management and monitoring in Selected Protected Areas 
and their buffer zones, through:
(a)
development of specific models for biodiversity and natural resources 
management in Selected Protected Areas, including systematization of ongoing 
experiences, piloting and validating such models, and sharing their results; and
(b)
monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity conservation, including the 
design and implementation of a system that evaluates the efficiency of conservation 
programs in place and provides SERNAP with inputs for planning for decision-making.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
Guidelines
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), as such Guidelines may be revised by 
the Bank from time to time; and (b) the applicable provisions of this Schedule.
2.
Grouping of Contracts
(a)
Contracts for goods and works shall be packaged in sizes adequate to 
attract maximum competition and to ensure economy and efficiency in the procurement 
process. Contracts shall not be divided into smaller units in order to make them less 
appropriate for competitive procedures. Any proposal to divide a contract into smaller 
packages shall require the Bank’s prior approval.
(b)
To the extent practicable contracts for goods and works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 and $250,000 equivalent or more each, 
Page  14
respectively.
3.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
In the procurement of goods under ICB (as defined below in Section V), the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in Bolivia.
4.
Standard Documents
In the procurement of goods or works under NCB, S(I/N) and PSW (as defined below 
in Section V), Bolivia shall use standard documents acceptable to the Bank.
Section II: 
Employment of Consultants
Consultant Guidelines
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), as such Consultant 
Guidelines may be revised by the Bank from time to time; and (b) the applicable 
provisions of this Schedule.
Section III:  Records and Audits
1.
Records
(a)
Bolivia shall:
(i)
maintain Procurement Records (as hereinafter defined) adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound procurement practices (including 
related supervision, review and auditing) the procurement 
activities with regard to Parts A, B, C and E of the Project; and
(ii)
ensure that all such Procurement Records (as hereinafter defined) 
evidencing such procurement activities are retained until at least 
two (2) years after the Closing Date.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, Procurement Records mean:
(i)
with respect to procurement of goods and works: public notices of 
bidding opportunities; bidding documents and addenda; bid opening 
information; bid evaluation reports; formal appeals by bidders and 
outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; records on 
claims and dispute resolution; and records of time taken to 
complete key steps in the process; and
(ii)
with respect to selection of consultants: public notices for 
expressions of interest; requests for proposals and addenda; 
technical and final evaluation reports; formal appeals by 
firms 
and related outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and 
amendments; 
records on claims and dispute resolution, and records 
of time 
taken to complete key steps.
2.
Audits: 
Bolivia shall:
(a)
have the Procurement Records audited each Fiscal Year, in accordance with 
internationally accepted procurement standards consistently applied, by independent 
procurement experts acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the end of each such Year, the report of said audit, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said audit, as the Bank may reasonably request.
Section IV:
Review of Procurement Action
Page  15
1.
Prior to the issuance of:
(a)
any invitations to bid for goods or works,  the proposed procurement plan 
for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank (the Procurement Plan), 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1; and
(b)
any requests for proposals to consultants, the proposed consultant 
selection process plan for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the  Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection process plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank (the Consultant Selection Process Plan), and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Not later than June 1 and December 1 of each year of Project implementation, 
Bolivia shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval, a detailed update of 
the Procurement Plan and the Consultant Selection Process Plan for the upcoming 
calendar semester prepared under TORs (as defined below in Section V) satisfactory to 
the Bank.  Such update shall include: (a) a firm list of contracts to be procured in 
the upcoming calendar semester and a tentative list of contracts to be procured in the 
subsequent semester; (b) estimated contract costs; (c) schedule for bidding; (d) 
particular methods of procurement of goods or works, or selection of consultants; and 
(e) particular thresholds and other criteria for Prior Review or Prior Review for 
Consultants (as defined below in Section V).
3.
Bolivia shall arrange the publication of a summary of the Procurement Plan and 
the Consultant Selection Process Plan and any update thereof in Development Business *
* See footnote 19 to paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines..
4.
Bolivia and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the request of any one of 
them, exchange views with regard to the progress in the implementation of the 
Procurement Plan and the Consultant Selection Process Plan.
5
Any modification to the Procurement Plan and the Consultant Selection Process 
Plan shall require the Bank’s prior review and approval.
Section V:  Specific Provisions for the Procurement of Goods and Works and the 
Employment of Consultants
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR TABLE, DONE IN WRONG FORMAT
Definitions:
For the purposes of this Schedule:
1.
"IC" means the individual consultants selection procedure set forth in 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines;
2.
"ICB" means the international competitive bidding procedure set forth in Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto;
3.
"NCB" means the national competitive bidding procedure set forth in paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines;
4.
"Other Methods of Procurement" means any of the methods of procurement set forth 
in Section III of the Guidelines;
5.
"Other Methods of Selection" means any of the methods of selection set forth in 
Section III of the Consultant Guidelines;
6.
"Post Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Bank determines, at any time, that the 
proposed procurement is inconsistent with the provisions of the Guidelines or this 
Schedule, it shall promptly inform Bolivia and state the reasons for its 
determination;
7.
"Post Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Bank 
determines, at any time, that the proposed selection is inconsistent with the 
Page  16
provisions of the Guidelines or this Schedule, it shall promptly inform Bolivia and 
state the reasons for its determination;
8.
"Prior Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines;
9.
"Prior Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines; 
10.
"PSW" means the procurement of small works procedure for lump sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully;
11.
"QCBS" means the Quality and Cost-based selection procedure set forth in Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the applicable provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof; 
12.
"S(I/N)" means the Shopping (International and National) procedure referred to 
in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and
13.
"TORs" means terms of reference.
Section VI. 
Special Provisions for Bolivia
A.
Pursuant to Bolivia’s Supreme Resolution No. 216145 dated August 3, 1995, in 
addition to and without limitation on any other provision set forth in this Schedule 
or the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of goods and works 
under NCB:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bidders.
2.
The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
Bolivia shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance with 
a procedure satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Bolivia shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not be 
declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have 
been determined not to be responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivia’s authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
Page  17
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of Bolivia shall apply without the 
prior review and consent of the Bank.
B.
Pursuant to Bolivia’s Supreme Resolution 216145 dated August 3, 1995, in 
addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this Schedule 
or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all employment of 
consultants referred to in this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with Bolivia’s authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in Bolivia’s National 
Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
SCHEDULE 4
SERNAP Performance Benchmarks
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS, FORMAT WOULD NOT FIT INTO DATABASE
SCHEDULE 5
Key Implementation Provisions
1.
Bolivia shall carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, through SERNAP, in 
accordance with the SERNAP Operational Manual.
2.
Bolivia, through SERNAP, shall:
(a)
enter into Participation Arrangements with the Management Councils of 
each Selected Protected Area for the purposes of ensuring the participation of each 
such Management Council in the implementation of Part B of the Project, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b)
pursuant to the Project Implementation Plan, furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, Management Plans for each such Selected Protected Area, in order 
to determine the eligibility of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant; and
(c)
provide financial assistance to SNAP as set forth in the SNAP Program.
3.
Bolivia shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement and the 
Participation Arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of Bolivia and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the SERNAP GEF Trust Fund Grant.
SCHEDULE 6
Selected Protected Areas
Parque Nacional y Area Natural de Manejo Integrado Kaa Iya del Gran Chaco 
Area Natural de Manejo Integrado El Palmar 
Parque Nacional y Area Natural de Manejo Integrado Otuquis 
Area Natural de Manejo Integrado San Matías 
Parque Nacional Toro Toro
Reserva de la Biosfera y Territorio Indígena Pilón Lajas 
Page  18
Reserva Biológica Cordillera de Sama
Reserva Nacional de Fauna Andina Eduardo Avaroa
Reserva de la Biosfera Estación Biológica del Beni
Area Natural de Manejo Integrado Apolobamba
