Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3782-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 20, 1982
East Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
From October 1975 to May 1981, the Ugandan shilling was tied to the Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs) of the IMF (SDR 1.00 = U.Sh. 9.66). In June 1981,
the Ugandan shilling was devaluated by approximately 90%, and has
subsequently been floating in relation to a basket of currencies. As a
result, the U.S. dollar/Ugandan shilling exchange rate is subject to
change. The annual average exchange rates for the last six years, and the
spot rate at the end of September 1981, are as follows:
U.Sh. per US$1.00
1975                                                                 7.4122
1976                                                                 8.3677
1977                                                                 8.2656
1978                                                                  7.6917
1979                                                                 7.4686
1980                                                                 7.4242
End September 1981                                                  80.2000
ABBREVIATIONS
UCB - Uganda Commercial Bank
UDB - Uganda Development Bank
UDC - Uganda Development Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government         July 1 - June 30
'UCB                 October 1 - September 30
UDB                January 1 - December 31



UGANDA         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION                                                         1
II.   THE ENVIRONMENT                                                      2
A.  The Industrial Sector                                           2
Role and Performance                                            2
Structure and Organization                                      3
Constraints and Policy Issues                                   4
Government Objectiv^s and Priorities                            7
Bank Assistance Strategy                                        8
B.  The Financial Sector                                            9
Institutional Structure                                         9
Resource Mobilization and Credit Allocation                    10
Interest Rates and Inflation                                   11
III.  THE INTERMEDIARIES                                                 12
A.  Uganda Development Bank                                        12
Objectives and Role                                            12
Capital and Ownership                                          12
Board and Management                                           13
Organization and Staff                                         13
Policies and Procedures                                        14
Procurement and Disbursement                                   15
Accounting and Auditing                                        15
Lending Terms                                                  16
Operations                                                     16
Resources                                                      17
Portfolio                                                      17
Financial Performance and Condition                            17
Projected Operations                                           18
Resource Requirements and Financial Plan                       19
Projected Financial Condition and Performance                  20
Evaluation                                                     20
B.  Uganda Commercial Bank                                         21
History and Role                                               21
Capital, Ownership and Board                                  21
Management, Organization and Staff                             21
Policies and Procedures                                       22
Accounting and Auditing                                        24
Operations and Portfolio                                       24
Financial Performance, Situation and Prospects                 25
Evaluation                                                    26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT                                                         26
A.  Objectives                                                     26
B.  Description                                                    26
Medium and Large Industries                                    27
Small Industries                                               28
C.  Costs and Financing                                            29
Medium and Large Industries Component                          29
Small Industries Component                                     30
Terms of IDA Credit                                            30
D.  Project Implementation                                         32
E.  Benefits and Risks                                             33
V.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS                      35
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.  Uganda:  Industrial Output and Wage Employment
2.  Uganda:  Structure of Interest Rates
3.  UDB   : Actual and Projected Operations:  1978 - 1986
4.  UDB       Actual and Projected Income Statements:  1977 - 1986
5.  UDB   : Actual and Projected Balance Sheets:  1977 - 1986
6.  UDB   : Actual and Projected Sources and Uses of Funds:  1979 - 1986
7.  UDB       Actual and Projected Financial Ratios:  1978 - 1986
8.  UCB   : Actual Income Statements:  1976 - 1981
9.  UCB   : Actual Appropriation Accounts:  1976 - 1981
10. UCB   : Actual Balance Sheets:  1976 - 1981
11. UCB       Actual Financial Ratios:  1976 - 1980
12. Short List of Medium and Large Scale Projects for Rehabilitation
13. Summarized Information on Small Industries for Rehabilitation
14. Terms of Reference for Consulting Firm to assist UDB in Project
Appraisal
15. Projected Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
16. Selected Documents in Projects File



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group reconnaissance mission which visited Uganda in
July 1979 after the liberation war recommended industry as one of the high
priority sectors where the Bank should quickly prepare projects for
assistance, and where Government placed priority on such Bank assistance.
In particular, the mission reported that the Government was keen on Bank
assistance for strengthening the Uganda Development Bank (UDB) so it could
play a major role in financing the rehabilitation of industry and
agriculture. In view of this recommendation, an IDF mission visited
Uganda in December 1979 to undertake a preliminary review of the industry
and finance sectors, and assess the potential for Bank Group project
lending in these sectors.
1.02      The mission's main findings were; (i) whilst shortages of
imported raw materials and spare parts were the major constraints to
industrial production, a large number of medium and large scale industrial
enterprises would also need to replace obsolete or broken-down plant,
machinery and equipment, to be able to produce efficiently; (ii) many small
enterprises and entrepreneurs also needed basic equipment, machinery and
tools to restart businesses ravaged by years of economic decline and the
war; (iii) foreign exchange resources, preferably available on terms that
will permit onlending on a medium and long term basis, were urgently needed
to finance such replacement investments; and (iv) a basic framework already
existed within the financial system to undertake such term lending.
Specifically, the UDB as the main national development bank could be
quickly strengthened to channel resources for rehabilitation of medium and
larger scale enterprises, and the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB), being the
largest bank with an extensive branch network, could effectively lend for
the revival of small and cottage industries throughout the country. The
mission recommended preparation of a Bank line of credit project for
financing capital investments needed in the rehabilitation of the
industrial sector, using these two institutions. Such a credit was seen as
a necessary complement to two credits then planned for Uganda, from which
the industrial sector was going to benefit. These two credits, since
approved, were a reconstruction credit which would provide imported raw
materials and spare parts, and a technical assistance credit which would
provide expatriate assistance for various activities (para 2.15 and 2.16).
1.03      A preparation and preappraisal mission visited Uganda in
April/May 1980 to: (i) ascertain and discuss the Government's priorities
among industrial sub-sectors and projects for rehabilitation; (ii) evaluate
and prepare the two financial intermediaries for channelling a Bank Group
line of credit; and (iii) define the scope and content of the project,
estimate project costs, and the level of external financing likely to be
required. The mission identified a short list of 25 medium and large scale
priority projects, drawn from a longer list provided by Government, and
requested UDB to compile more detailed technical, financial, and economic
information on them. On small industries, UCB was requested to compile
information on the rehabilitation needs of its existing clients. In July
1981, an engineering mission visited Uganda and reviewed the engineering
and technical feasibility of rehabilitating the 25 medium and large scale
projects, among others, and the cost estimates. Final field appraisal of



the project was undertaken in September 1981.  This report is based on the
findings of all these missions, 1/ as well as on work done on the
industrial sector by the economic mission which visited Uganda in September
1981. It recommends an IDA credit of $35 million for the project.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. The Industrial Sector
Role and Performance
2.01      Although Uganda's industrial sector 2/ has always been
relatively small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards
supplying the domestic market with basic goods (e.g. edible oils, soap,
paper, and cement) and in some instances, produced a surplus for export
(e.g. textiles and copper). During the 1960s and early 1970s, the sector
grew at a satisfactory rate of around 6% per annum (similar to the growth
rate for the economy as a whole), and accounted for about 16% of monetary
GDP and 11% of total GDP (at 1966 prices). The overall growth rate of the
industrial sector began to slow in 1970 and has generally been negative
since 1972. As shown in the table below, production of many key industrial
products in 1980 was only a fraction of earlier peak levels. 3/
Production of Selected Industrial Goods
Peak Year      1980      Ratio of 1980/
Units          Year  Amount   Amount  Peak Production
(%)
Spirits (waragi)    '000 liters        1973   910.0    34.0           3.7
Beer                 m. liters         1973    45.6    12.0          26.3
Cigarettes           billions          1974     2.0      0.6         30.0
Fabrics              m. sq.meters      1970    49.6      7.5         15.1
Soap                  '000 tons        1966    14.9      0.4          2.7
Matches (small)       '000 cartons    1971    64.0       2.8          4.4
Steel Ingots          '000 tons        1970    24.8      1.9          7.7
Cement                '000 tons        1971   205.1      4.9          2.4
Paints               m. liters         1974     1.9      0.1          5.3
Overall, industrial value added in 1980 was only about one-third of its
peak 1972 level, and accounted for less than 8% of monetary GDP and 5% of
total GDP. Now, many industries have closed down while others continue to
operate at very low levels of capacity utilization.
1/ The reconnaissance mission consisted of Messrs. Nouvel, Mante and
Chanmugan; the preparation mission of Messrs. Mante and Murgatroyd; the
engineering mission of Mr. E. Espenhahn of UNIDO, and the appraisal mission
of Messrs. Mante, Murgatroyd and K.A. Rashid (consultant).
2/ The industrial sector is defined to include: (a) miscellaneous
manufacturing; (b) mining and quarrying; (c) crop processing; and (e)
construction.
3/ It should be noted that statistics of industrial production in Uganda
are not very reliable, because of the general upheaval in the country over
the past decade, and because many firms have been unwilling to report
accurate figures because of their "magendo" operations.



-3-
2.02      This significant decline in industrial output and value added was
not accompanied by a major decline in sector wage employment. According to
available data (annex 1) total industrial wage employment increased from
about 78,300 in 1966 to about 108,400 in 1971 (up 38%) and then declined by
only about 2% to about 106,300 in 1977. Its share of total wage employment
rose from 32% in 1966 to 33% in 1971, but had also declined to 29% by
1977. Compared to the decline in sector output and contribution to GDP in
the seventies, this marginal reduction in employment implies a significant
decline in labour productivity in the sector starting in 1971. This
development appears to be a result of pressures on parastatals to retain
workers even where production was being reduced. Industrial inestment also
suffered a major decline in the decade. Even without data on yearly
changes in sector capital stock, it is apparent from the condition of
existing factories that there was little new investment over the past
decade. Indeed, in more recent years, there is evidence of disinvestment
in many areas as obsolete and broken-down equipment were not replaced, and
factories were forced to shut-down.
Structure and Organization
2.03      As should be expected after such a long period of stagnation and
disinvestment, the structure of Ugandan industry has not changed much since
1971 and remains typical of early industrial development.  The larger
establishments, with the exception of crop processing activities (coffee,
and tea), are mainly import substituting in orientation and produce basic
consumer goods. The main subsectors are textiles and wearing apparel; food
and beverages; leather and footwear; metal working and allied products;
wood products; paper products; construction materials; and fertilizers and
basic chemicals. There are very few intermediate and capital goods
industries, and a notable absence of pure assembly industries making
electro/mechanical goods from mainly imported components. Smaller
industries are also oriented towards producing basic consumer goods and
services for the domestic market. Typical small industry activities
include tailoring shops, jaggery mills, maize mills, furniture shops and
auto repair garages.  Handicraft production has been largely neglected.
2.04      Although industrial structure has not changed much, there appears
to have been a considerable reduction in the number of enterprises. In
1971, when the last full industrial survey was conducted, the sector was
reported to comprise about 970 establishments employing ten or more people,
and a much larger number of cottage industries and small workshops
scattered throughout the country. A recent (1981) register of existing
industries compiled by the Ministry of Industry records only 464
establishments, including small industries. Of these, 177 (about 40%),
were reported to have temporarily shut down. While the coverage of this
recent survey is unlikely to have matched that of the 1971 survey, and the
two results should therefore be compared with caution, these figures
corroborate the conclusion that the size of the sector was considerably
reduced over the past decade.
2.05      The organization of industrial activity changed in two important
respects during the past decade. First, there was a major shift from a



-4-
predominance of private enterprises to public enterprises in the medium and
large scale sector. This started with nationalization of some major
private industries in 1968, and was accelerated in 1972 by the exodus of
Asians, and subsequent acquisition of their enterprises by Government. The
result is that almost all medium and large scale industries are now either
publicly owned, or have significant public participation. Second, within
the expanding public sector, proper organization and control gave way to
considerable disorganization. Prior to the nationalizations, the Uganda
Development Corporation (UDC), a public corporation set up in 1952, was the
main institutional channel for public investment in and operation of
industries. It was a properly organized holding corporation with an
independent board, and adequate autonomy. After 1972, its operations
initially swelled out of control as it was allocated most of the
nationalized enterprises, then shrank haphazardly as the same Government
reallocated these enterprises, including some originally started by UDC, to
Government ministries and other parastatals. In 1974, a number of other
specialized public corporations (e.g. National Textile Board, and Wood
Industries Corporation) were created to serve as holding companies for
various nationalized and abandoned enterprises in the same subsector. The
setting up of these corporations, and the allocation of enterprises to
them, was neither done in a planned and systematic way nor ever completed.
Additionally, successive Governments have changed the degree of autonomy
exercised by these corporations to suit their political goals. The result
is that the public sector is still disorganized, and suffers from
inadequate planning and controls (see para 2.10).
Constraints and Policy Issues
2.06      The severe decline in the performance of Ugandan industry
described above took place within the context of severe mismanagement of
all sectors of the Ugandan economy in the past decade. This economic
mismanagement impacted on industrial performance through a number of
interelated constraints which are still largely unresolved, and which now
represent key policy issues for Government action.
2.07      The primary constraint, as with all areas of the economy, is the
acute shortage of foreign exchange. The sector is a major consumer of
foreign exchange for imports of inputs, spare parts and capital goods for
rehabilitation. Even essentially domestic resource based industries like
cotton textiles and leather tanning depend on some imported inputs. Only
small amounts of foreign exchange are currently available for sector
imports, leading to severe difficulties in selecting beneficiaries and
cumbersome allocation procedures. 4/ Since this foreign exchange problem
is expected to remain unresolved in the near future, Government policy must
address the issues of setting clearer priorities for allocating this scarce
resource, and streamlining the approval procedure in a way which is less
time consuming but consistent with implementation of the set priorities.
4/ The procedures require approval of import licenses at four levels;
Ministry of Industry; Advisory Board of Trade; Ministry of Planning or
Commerce and the President's Economic Advisory Committee. The whole
process is estimated to take between 5 to 6 weeks.



- 5 -
These policy issues are already being addressed in the Bank's dialogue with
Government on overall economic policies. Specific understandings on
appropriate solutions would be sought in the context of the proposed second
reconstruction credit which is being processed together with this
industrial rehabilitation credit.
2.08      The second major constraint which has contributed in a
substantial way to the decline of industrial production is a shortage of
domestic inputs, especially agricultural inputs. A decline in agricultural
production, coupled with smuggling, have had a severe impact on the
agro-processing industries (e.g. coffee curing, cotton ginning, sugar
production, leather tanning, and milk production), as well as on industries
using these processed products as inputs. For example, the collapse of
cotton output has affected production of textiles, edible oils and soap,
while the shortage of hides and skins has affected the leather and shoe
industry. The basic reasons for the decline of agriculture were distorted
pricing policies, inadequate supplies of imported inputs and incentive
goods, and ineffective marketing channels. 5/ These problems are being
addressed by Government in its efforts to rehabilitate the agricultural
sector. Successful implementation of an agricultural rehabilitation
program will be a basic requirement for any significant improvement in
industrial performance.
2.09      The third serious problem for Ugandan industry is a lack of
skilled staff, mainly technical and engineering staff, but also other
management and supervisory personnel. This problem has its origin in the
exodus of expatriates and trained Ugandans in the 1970's, and was
exacerbated by inadequate facilities for training and development of
replacements. Its most serious impact has been a serious deterioration in
a number of plant and equipment due to poor maintenance, and an inability
to plan and implement subsequent rehabilitation of such facilities. While
this problem can best be dealt with on an industry by industry basis
through identification of staffing gaps and recruitment of suitable people,
it is also important that Government address the broader issue of manpower
development through appropriate policies. In the short and medium term,
two policy areas need attention. First, it will be necessary for
Government to establish a more professionally-oriented and rewarding system
of compensation, career development and working conditions in the public
industrial sector. This will help improve morale of existing trained
manpower and possibly attract Ugandans overseas to return. Second, even
with the best of local efforts, it seems inevitable that significant inputs
of technical assistance will be needed for a number of years to come.
Government recognizes this need and welcomes such assistance. Where such
assistance is provided through aid arrangements, it raises no major
problems. Major problems however arise for expatriates who are not funded
under aid programs, because Government is yet to put into place policies
that will permit payment of portions of their salaries in foreign exchange
and prompt remittances of such salaries and fees to dependents. Since
Government cannot be expected to guarantee such payments in the current
tight foreign exchange situation, the most promising short term solution is
for Government to seek most of the technical assistance under aid funded
arrangements.
5/ For a detailed discussion of the agricultural sector see the Country
Economic Memorandum on Uganda; Report No. 3773-UG.



- 6 -
2.10      The disorganization of public sector industry has already been
noted (paragraph 2.05). This has become a major constraint on better
industrial performance, given the importance of the public sector.
Specifically, it aggravates the mismanagement effects of the skilled
manpower shortages, leads to political interference in decisions which
should normally rest with enterprise management, and has generally created
an atmosphere of lack of accountability and proper control in the use of
the substantial public resources involved. 6/ Government has indicated
that its policies in this area are: (i) to reduce the size of the public
sector through the return of some of the abandoned or nationalized
properties to the rightful owners, and sale of others to new private
investors; and (ii) to properly reorganize the remaining parastatals,
appoint managers on the basis of technical qualifications, and give them
adequate autonomy in running these enterprises. The practical
implementation of these policies is however proving very difficult and slow
because of the inherent complexity of some of the issues (e.g. establishing
correct ownership); the need for legislative action to provide the legal
framework under which some of the decisions can be made (e.g.
compensation); deficiencies in the information base (e.g. lack of financial
statements) and also political inertia (e.g. slowness in reorganization of
UDC). Although some of these related issues will take careful deliberation
and years to fully resolve, some measures and decisions can be taken by
Government now which would at least improve the climate for
rehabilitation. Two such measures are a realistic program for updating the
accounts of the major parastatals to provide a basis for decisions on their
future, and a specific proposal for reorganizing UDC, the major industrial
corporation. The Bank will seek an understanding with Government to
allocate funds from the IDA technical assistance credit for the employment
of consultants to start updating the parastatal accounts in the context of
the proposed second reconstruction credit. The Government has been urged
to make a final decision soon on the reorganization of UDC, 7/ a subject
on which several proposals have been prepared by UDC technical staff since
1979.
2.11      The fifth major constraint is financial in nature; shortages of
working capital and inadequate access to credit from the domestic
commercial banking sector even where import licenses have been approved.
In general, this reflects problems of creditworthiness of industrial
enterprises, rather than any general shortage of liquidity in the banking
system (paragraph 2.22). This creditworthiness problem has many causes.
First, after years of operating at substantial losses, many enterprises
have had their equity bases substantially eroded and have accumulated huge
debts, thereby limiting their borrowing capacities. Second, in cases where
ownership is not clearly known or established (many abandoned and
nationalized enterprises are in this category), the banks are unwilling to
extend credit because proper collateral cannot be assumed on the
enterprises' assets. Third, after the June 1981 currency float and
devaluation, the amounts of credit required to operate at the new costs and
6/ Some of these public enterprises have not produced any audited accounts
for years.
7/ Specifically, a decision on which of UDC's past subsidiary and
associated companies will be returned to it; which of its existing
companies will remain with it; and which other government owned companies
will be reallocated to it as new subsidiary and associated companies.



-7-
prices are huge in relation to the existing assets of enterprises.  Pending
a revaluation of such assets (a complex task), the banks are cautious in
extending credit. The extent of the problem varies, depending on the
enterprise and its history, and solutions will therefore have to be
tailored to the peculiarities of each case.  To facilitate such financial
restructuring of enterprises to be rehabilitated under the proposed credit,
IDA will suggest to Government during negotiations that it consider
permitting rescheduling or cancellation of tax arrears and other debts owed
tu it; deferment of duties and taxes, especially for private companies;
providing guarantees to parastatals for commercial credit for working
capital; and making budgetary allocations for recapitalizing parastatals.
2.12      Finally, infrastructural services, especially transport, have
deteriorated to a point where they impinge on industrial performance.
Transport bottlenecks, both on domestic and international routes, cause
serious delays in the delivery of crucial inputs to the industrial sector
and of final products to markets.  The deterioration of Uganda's transport
network was due in large part to inadequate road maintenance, the loss or
damage to vehicles especially during and after the liberation war, and the
impact of the breakup of the EAC on railway and air services. The
rehabilitation of the transport sector is a major priority of Government,
which has already taken measures to augment the truck fleet. Successful
implementation of Government's programs in infrastructural rehabilitation
will therefore be important for increasing industrial output and reducing
industrial production costs.
Government Objectives and Priorities
2.13      Given the serious decline in industrial production and the
deterioration of sector assets, Government rightly attaches importance to
the reactivation of the sector in its overall strategy for rehabilitating
the economy of Uganda. In the short run, the objective is to increase
utilization of existing capacity through improvements in the availability
of inputs, and through repairs and replacement of broken down and obsolete
plant and equipment where justified. Specifically, the Government is
aiming at an increase in average capacity utilization from the current
levels of about 20% to about 60% over the next two years. This is an
ambitious target, given the foreign exchange, manpower, institutional and
other constraints on the sector. Nevertheless, it does help illustrate the
magnitude of the task ahead and the resultant need to mobilize resources
from a variety of sources: public and private, domestic and foreign.
2.14      Even with the best of efforts however, it is unlikely that
Government can raise enough resources to reactivate all priority industrial
enterprises over the next two years, and possibly even over the next five
years. It is important therefore that it set priorities for industrial
rehabilitation which would reinforce and complement its overall priorities
and strategy for rehabilitating the economy. The broad priorities, given
the structure of Ugandan industry, have been rightly set by Government to
be basic consumer goods, inputs to the agricultural sector, and
construction materials. In its investment program for 1982-1984, these
priorities have been narrowed down to about 37 specific projects and
programs for which an estimated US$211.5 million will be required.



The Bank has reviewed Government's overall investment program and
priorities, including these industrial sector priorities, and have found
them to be generally justified, even though the required resources may
still be in excess of what is likely to be available. The priorities
proposed for this industrial rehabilitation credit fit in with the
Government's three year investment plan.
2.15      The Government has yet to formulate policies dealing with such
industrial sector issues as tariff protection, investment and export
incentives and employment, reflecting the still tentative nature of its
overall economic program.  On other issues such as ownership and pricing,
indications are that the preference is for a mixed economy in which the
private sector will have a strong role, and in which market determined
prices will play an important role in production and resource allocation
decisions.  Evidence of these preferences come from a decision to hand-over
some parastatals to the private sector, and the decision to decontrol the
prices of most manufactured goods in June 1981.  The absence of a policy
framework on tariffs and incentives should not however seriously hamper
effective rehabilitation of the sector in the short and medium term, as
long as the specific constraints noted in paragraphs 2.07 to 2.12 above are
adequately addressed.
Bank Assistance Strategy
2.16       In line with the current focus of Bank assistance to Uganda on
rehabilitation and reconstruction of the economy, especially the directly
productive sectors, the program in industry is aimed exclusively at
rehabilitation. The Bank has already provided imported inputs and spare
parts to the industrial sector through the first reconstruction credit
approved in FY 1980, and will continue this type of assistance under the
proposed second reconstruction credit (para 2.07). Specifically, $30
million of the $70 million currently proposed for this second
reconstruction credit is likely to be earmarked for importing raw materials
and spare parts for industrial enterprises, selected on the basis of their
potential to quickly earn or save foreign exchange, and to contribute
significantly to value added. This assistance will enable these
enterprises, in the short term, at least utilize their production
facilities which are still usable. As noted in paragraph 2.02 however,
there was substantial damage to industrial capital assets in the past few
years. Medium term increases in industrial output and efficiency will
therefore require, in addition to the provision of raw materials and spare
parts, an early effort to replace obsolete and broken down equipment. This
proposed industrial rehabilitation credit will provide the financial and
technical assistance for rebuilding and replacement of industrial capital
assets, as a complement to the assistance to be provided under the
reconstruction credit. Additionally, a phosphate engineering credit, also
planned for FY81, will prepare the way for rehabilitation of Uganda's
chemical complex producing phosphate fertilizer. Assistance under these
credits will mitigate the critical foreign exchange constraints on the
sector.



- 9 -
2.17      A second objective of Bank assistance in the sector is to improve
sector planning and help solve the institutional and manpower problems.
The technical assistance credit, approved in FY81, provides resources for
external technical assistance for management of industrial enterprises,
preparatory work on plant and equipment rehabilitation, and staff training
and support for institutions dealing with the sector. An industrial sector
study, scheduled for FY83, will enable the Bank to advise the Government of
Uganda on longer-term industrial strategy and policies beyond
rehabilitation, while a parastatal sector study, also scheduled for FY83,
will help Government define its policies for dealing with the issues
affecting industrial parastatals.
B. The Financial Sector
Institutional Structure
2.18      The Ugandan financial system comprises the Bank of Uganda which
is the central bank performing traditional central bank functions; seven
commercial banks; four other credit institutions; two development banks; a
post office savings bank; and several insurance companies.
2.19      The seven commercial banks constitute the heart of the system,
accounting for the bulk of resources mobilized and allocated by the
sector. The Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB), evaluated in Chapter III of this
report, is by far the largest of the seven. The remaining six include five
foreign-owned banks, (four of which are Ugandan subsidiaries with minority
government participation), and a cooperative bank. The foreign-owned banks
are Barclays, Bank of Baroda, Grindlays, the Libyan Arab Uganda Bank, and
Standard. The Libyan Arab Uganda Bank was engaged in development financing
as well as commercial banking activities, but, following the liberation
war, both its operations and administration have been taken over by
Government due to the changed political circumstances. The Cooperative
Bank became a full-fledged commercial bank in 1978 when it began offering
checking accounts. Deposits from the general public account for half of
its funds, with the Government, on whose behalf it administers specialized
lending programs, contributing 41 percent, and only 9 percent from the
Cooperative Movement and its members. While the bank is owned by the
Cooperative Movement, the Government plays an important role in its
direction, with its representatives from the Ministries of Finance,
Planning and Economic Development, and Cooperatives and Marketing, as
voting board members. During the last decade commercial banking coverage
has declined sharply, in line with the general decline of the economy, and
the relative increase in subsistence activities. Thus, whereas in 1970
Uganda had 290 bank branches, or one for every 34,000 inhabitants, present
estimates are 110 branches, or one for every 116,000 people.
2.20      The four credit institutions have mixed private and Government
ownership. They operate mainly in the areas of mortgage financing and hire
purchase, but can also carry out some of the functions of a commercial
bank. The largest of these is the Uganda Housing Finance Company, which
specializes in mortgage financing. The two development banks are the



- 10 -
Uganda Development Bank (UDB), evaluated in Chapter III of this report, and
the East African Development Bank, owned jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda. A third institution involved in term financing of industry, the
Development Finance Company of Uganda (DFCU), which is jointly owned by
UDC, CDC and DEG, ceased operations in the mid-seventies and is yet to be
reactivated. The numerous insurance firms include a wholly Government
owned insurance company.
Resource Mobilization and Credit Allocation
2.21       The commercial banks account for the bulk of savings mobilized
through the financial system because the other credit institutions have
been fairly inactive in this area. 8/ In spite of the decline in number
of branches over the past decade, time and savings deposits mobilized by
the commercial banks increased from Shs 562 million as of December 1970 to
Shs 4,494 million in December 1980, an average growth of 25.3% per year in
current terms over the period. In real terms however, this represents no
growth in financial savings, and reflects the real decline in GDP and the
relative increase in subsistence economic activity during the period. It
may also be a reflection of significantly negative real interest rates in
the latter part of the decade (paragraph 2.23), and the disincentive
effects of limited lending options on the willingness of the banks to
mobilize savings.
2.22      Compared to savings mobilization, growth in domestic credit was
more rapid over the past decade. In December 1970, total domestic credit
was Shs 1.5 billion. This had grown to Shs 21.6 billion as of December
1980; an average growth of about 31.8% per year. This development resulted
mainly from increased Government borrowing, particularly advances from the
Bank of Uganda, to finance its budget deficits. Thus, claims on the
central Government, which accounted for 39% of total credit in 1970, had
reached a proportion of 72% in 1980. The corresponding shrinkage in credit
to the private sector also reflects the effects of declining economic
activity on private sector demand for credit. In fact, before the
introduction of the financial stabilization measures in June 1981, 9/
private demand for credit from the banking system was very small, and a
number of banks were consequently refusing time deposits.  There was a
large amount of excess liquidity in the financial system, and the
commercial banks' ratio of loans to deposits was only 41 percent, compared
with the maximum permissible ratio of 70 percent. Most financial
transactions were then conducted by operators for speculative purposes, and
the need for bank credit was negligible. After June, there are indications
that the demand for private credit has increased with the sharp rise in
taxes and import duties resulting from the float and devaluation, and some
increase in non-speculative economic activity.  It appears however that the
demand varies from bank to bank, and that while some shifted from excess
liquidity to tightness, others have remained very liquid.
8/ There is very little information on savings mobilized through insurance
D remiums.
9/ The financial stabilization measures agreed with the Fund include a
floating of the Ushs, increases in prices of export crops, a freeing of
most other domestic prices from controls, and a limit on domestic credit
and the share of Government in it.



- 11 -
2.23      Since 1977 the Bank of Uganda has pursued a policy of specifying
ceilings for sectoral credit allocations which are adjusted from time to
time.  The current ceilings, fixed in June 1981 are; 30% for agriculture;
30% for manufacturing; 15% for trade and commerce; 10% for transport; 8.5%
for building construction; 5% for mining and 1.5% for local and urban
authorities. In general, credit to the agricultural sector has tended to
exceed its limit, whilst manufacturing credit remains well below its limit
(about 18%). The demand for credit from the manufacturing sector is
rising, especially with the increased availability of foreign exchange for
imports of raw materials and spare parts from the first IDA reconstruction
credit, and the much larger local currency required to finance such imports
after the devaluation. However, as noted in paragraph 2.11, a major
difficulty encountered for extending credit to most manufacturing
enterprises is the complete distortion of their financial statements
resulting from the major devaluation. In almost all cases their assets,
valued at old prices, do not provide adequate collateral for obtaining bank
credit after the float. An expansion of credit to the sector will
therefore require a revaluation of assets, a difficult task in a country
where qualified auditors are few. This revaluation problem is the key
issue facing the financial sector at present, as it also affects the
financial institutions themselves. In the short run it is proposed that
Government help parastatal firms through appropriate guarantees to the
banks. Private firms cannot however realistically expect such guarantees
by Government. For them a rescheduling of Government debts and tax
arrears, and a deferment of duties and other taxes by Government, would
seem to be the only viable short-run solution to the problem of improving
their creditworthiness (para 2.11).
Interest Rates and Inflation
2.24      The current structure of interest rates in Uganda is shown as
annex 2. The rates were set in October 1981 by the Central Bank, in
consultation with the IMF, and range from 8% to 12% per annum for deposits
and 13% to 17% per annum for lending. Up to June 1981, Uganda was
experiencing inflation in excess of 100%. Following the June 1981
devaluation, prices have stabilized or, in the case of food, fallen some
25%. The current interest rates are therefore positive in real terms. As
noted above however, until recently, the demand for credit for productive
economic activities was so low in relation to available funds that the
level of interest rates was not important in credit allocation decisions.
It was also not important in resource mobilization since the banks were not
willing to take deposits for want of avenues for lending the funds
mobilized. This situation still prevails to a large extent for most banks,
making it unnecessary for Government to use the interest rate as an
important policy instrument to influence resource mobilization and
allocation at this time. However, since the Government has demonstrated a
willingness to pursue realistic pricing policies, and since a continuation
of the current IMF program is likely after June 1982, it is expected that
if the situation on credit demand and mobilization of savings should change
sufficiently to warrant an active role for interest rate policy,
appropriate adjustments to the current structure will be made by
Government.



- 12 -
III. THE INTERMEDIARIES
A. Uganda Development Bank (UDB)
3.01       Objectives and Role:  The Uganda Development Bank was set up by
decree in 1972 to promote and finance development. It is empowered to
assist in the development of agriculture, industry, tourism, housing and
commerce; to provide such assistance in the form of short, medium and long
term loans, equity and other share investments, guarantees, and managerial
and technical advice; and to administer a credit guarantee fund consisting
of contributions from the Government and banks, for assisting marginal
borrowers in raising funds from banks and credit institutions. The decree
also permits UDB to manage various funds entrusted to it.
3.02       UDB's inception coincided with the mass exodus in 1972 of
non-Ugandan citizens, and the allocation of their trading and small
manufacturing businesses to new owners without the requisite business
experience.  These new owners were unable to obtain finance from the
commercial banks because they were largely unknown, and UDB was therefore
requested by Government to lend to them. UDB therefore started by playing
a non-developmental role of providing short term commercial credit. Its
role has however not been limited to this. As envisaged under the decree,
it has played the role of a multisector development bank by providing long
term project finance in the agricultural, industrial, transport and tourism
sectors. In addition it has managed two funds (including one for beef
ranching development financed under an IDA credit) on behalf of Government.
3.03       Government intends to build UDB into its major development bank
with a substantial role in investment financing in key sectors. In future
therefore, UDB will concentrate on medium and long term development lending
for commercial agriculture, medium and large industries, transport and
tourism. It is expected that its role in lending to commerce and small
industries will be discontinued by December 1985. During negotiations of
the proposed credit, an agreement to this effect was reached with UDB.
3.04       Capital and Ownership:  UDB was set up with an authorized capital
of Shs 100 million which was increased to Shs 500 million in April 1981.
Government is currently the sole shareholder with a paid in capital of
Shs 200 million. Because of the June 1981 currency float and devaluation,
Government has decided on a further increase of UDB's authorized capital
to enable it to borrow the amounts it needs to undertake lending activities
at a level commensurate with its role as Uganda's main development bank.
At negotiations of the proposed credit, Government agreed to finalize
arrangements to increase the authorized capital to at least Shs 1.5 billion
by June 1983, and to pay in an additional Shs 300 million from its own
resources by June 1985; of this Shs 100 million will be paid each fiscal
year in view of the tight constraints on the Government budget. In
addition the Government would use the initial $10 million to be disbursed
out of the proposed credit for UDB as additional Government equity in UDB
to increase the paid in capital to about Shs 1.3 billion by 1985.



- 13 -
3.05      Board and Management:  UDB's Board, appointed by the Minister of
Finance, consists of up to seven members, including the Governor of the
Central Bank and the Secretary of the Treasury as permanent ex-officio
members. The decree establishing UDB stipulates that Board members should
have experience in banking and financial matters, and mandates a board
meeting at least once every two months. UDB's current board was appointed
in September 1981, and it is too early to determine how effective it will
be in directing UDB's management. The individual members do however have
the requisite background to contribute effectively to the definition of
UDB's strategy and provide adequate guidance on its operations.
3.06      A General Manager appointed by the Minister of Finance is the
effective chief executive of UDB. The incumbent was transferred in late
1981 from the Libya Uganda Bank, where he had served briefly as a caretaker
Managing Director. He is a respected banker with previous experience as
the Managing Director of UCB. He also serves on the board of EADB. He has
the stature and experience to effectively manage UDB.
3.07      Organization and Staff:  UDB has three departments and an
internal audit division reporting to the General Manager. A recently
created operations department is responsible for all of UDB's project
appraisal and follow-up work and for related research. The department has
five divisions; agriculture, industry, commerce and trade, livestock and
research and promotion. A new finance and administration department has
two divisions, one responsible for financial management and accounting, and
the other for personnel and office administration. A secretary's
department is responsible for legal work and for administrative work
connected with the Board. This structure is appropriate for UDB.
3.08      As of September 1981, UDB's total professional staff was 40,
including the General Manager and two expatriate advisors. The
distribution of these staff among the various units was as follows:
secretary's - 3; administration - 4; accounts - 3; internal audit - 2;
industry - 7; agriculture - 4; livestock - 5; commerce - 4; and research -
5. This level of staffing and the distribution amongst the various units
has been adequate for the current level of UDB's operations. UDB is
however about to take on increasing responsibilities, especially in
industry and agriculture, where it is to be utilized as a channel for
various foreign lines of credits for rehabilitation purposes. To be able
to carry out these responsibilities effectively, its staff needs
strengthening, both in quantity and quality.
3.09      UDB's management is aware of this need for staff strengthening
and has sought the help of various external donors for experienced
expatriate staff to fill key positions where suitably experienced Ugandans
cannot be found immediately, and for appropriate training opportunities for
Ugandan staff. In response, the EEC has already provided two expatriates,
an engineer and a financial analyst, to augment the capacity of UDB's
industry division. Additionally, UNDP and IDA would jointly finance a



- 14 -
program of assistance to UDB involving the provision of; (i) seasoned
expatriates to serve as assistant General Managers with line
responsibilities for UDB's two new main departments (Operations and
Finance) for two years; (ii) an experienced accountant to serve as chief
accountant and strengthen the accounts division; and (iii) funds for
external fellowships for training of UDB staff. IDA will finance its
portion of the budget for this technical assistance from its technical
assistance credit to the Government of Uganda, and will be responsible for
recruitment for all the positions as executing agency for UNDP. In
addition to this program of expatriate assistance, UDB plans to recruit
more Ugandan professionals as the need arises.  Three of these have already
been recruited to strengthen the industry division.
3.10      Policies and Procedures:  UDB's investment and financial policies
are stated in by-laws adopted by its Board in 1973, and an informal policy
statement prepared by its management. The policy statement has been
discussed with IDA, and appropriate amendments reflecting suggested changes
in UDB operations and the current economic situation in Uganda have been
proposed and approved by UDB's Board.
3.11      The revised policy statement includes all the policy guidelines
appropriate for a development bank. UDB will limit its exposure per
project to the lowest of 80% of the project's cost, or 20% of UDB's net
worth. It will not normally finance projects with debt/equity ratios
exceeding 5 to 1, and if necessary will make equity investments to keep the
financing plan of projects within this limit. Where it takes up equity, it
will avoid taking a controlling interest, and its total investments in
equity will not exceed its own net worth.  UDB will avoid exposure to
foreign exchange risks, and will synchronize the maturities of its
borrowing with its lending.
3.12      UDB already has well established procedures for processing
projects. Its bye-laws prescribe that all applications for financing
should be made on a standard form. In addition sponsors are required to
submit detailed feasibility studies if available. All applications are
preappraised to quickly eliminate those which do not fall within UDB's
mandate, and those where the state of preparation by the sponsor indicates
that immediate consideration is not merited. Projects which are not
rejected after preappraisal are appraised according to guidelines which are
adapted to the needs of the sector and the project size.  For small
industry, commerce and small agricultural loans (these have accounted for a
substantial proportion of the number of loans UDB has considered), UDB's
appraisal is limited to basic commercial and financial analysis, and has
adequately addressed issues. UDB's appraisal of large scale industry
projects is comprehensive, and includes calculation of financial and
economic rates of return.  Because of the very small number of such
projects that have been undertaken in Uganda since UDB's inception, its
experience in undertaking such comprehensive appraisals has not been very



- 15 -
extensive, and it will need some guidance and assistance, especially in
technical and economic evaluation, to appraise the larger number of
projects to be financed under the proposed credit.  This assistance would
be provided by consultants and by IDA in its review of subprojects.  All
appraised projects are reviewed by an investment committee chaired by the
General Manager and consisting of all division heads. This committee is
responsible for making final recommendations on loans for approval by the
Board.
3.13      UDB's supervision procedures call for quarterly visits to each
borrower. In practice, this has not been possible because of the security
situation and transport difficulties. Clients around Kampala have
therefore tended to be adequately supervised while those in distant areas
have generally been barely supervised. This is a problem which is faced by
all financial institutions in Uganda, and will only be resolved with
general improvements in the security and transport situations.
3.14      Procurement and Disbursement:  Goods and services to be procured
with UDB financing are procured on the basis of competitive bidding or
comparative shopping, depending on the circumstances of each project. In
each case the method of procurement applicable is identified at the time of
appraisal and made a condition of the loan. Disbursements are made by the
accounts division after vetting of documents by the relevant sector
division where the loan was appraised. Disbursements are normally made to
suppliers, and if imports are involved, UDB requests that the goods be
consigned in its name. Where disbursements have to be made to the
borrowers because of the nature of the project, they are tranched, with
later tranches being conditional on evidence of utilization of earlier
tranches. These procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate.
3.15      Accounting and Auditing:  UDB's accounting system needs
improvement to handle foreign lines of credit.  In this connection the
proposed UNDP/IDA technical assistance to UDB includes funds for the
evaluation and redesign of the system. Consultants to do this work have
already been selected and a new system is expected to be in place before
disbursements start under the proposed credit.  The UDB decree prescribes
that external auditors be appointed on an annual basis.  UDB's auditors
since its inception have been Messrs. Lawrie Prophet and Company, a firm of
local auditors who were virtually the only audit firm operating in Uganda
between 1972 and 1980. Because of the resulting very large work load of
this firm, UDB's accounts have been audited with a considerable time lag,
and the scope of these audits have not included extensive independent
reviews of the portfolio.  At the request of IDA, UDB has engaged the
services of an internationally known auditing firm as joint auditors with
special responsibility for review of the portfolio. In future, UDB would
be required to submit audited accounts, including independent evaluation of
the portfolio, to IDA within 9 months of the end of its fiscal year.
3.16      Lending Terms:  As noted in paragraph 2.23 interest rates in
Uganda are set by the Central Bank, and were recently increased as part of
the financial stabilization program Government has agreed with the IMF.



- 16 -
UDB's current interest rates are therefore 13% per annum for agriculture,
14% for industry and 15% for commerce. UDB also charges borrowers 1% of
the amount of loan approved as a one time fee payable at the time of first
disbursement. It provides guarantees at a rate of 2% per annum of amounts
guaranteed. As already noted, current lending rates in Uganda are well
above recent domestic inflation rates, and may continue to be positive in
real terms over the next 2 to 3 years if the post June 1981 price stability
continues. It is however difficult, in Uganda's current economic
situation, to predict long term inflation because the underlying economic
factors can change quickly and significantly in either direction.  In these
circumstances it is difficult to make judgements about the adequacy of
lending rates for long term loans of the type UDB makes, and to set rates
now which would remain adequate over the life of most of it loans. For the
proposed credit, a minimum interest rate of 14% per annum will be charged
to subborrowers, in line with the rate approved by the Central Bank for
industrial lending.  If the price stability which has set in since June
1981 prevails over the next 3 years, this rate would yield a positive real
charge on subloans. In view of the uncertainty about the economic outlook
however, it is proposed that IDA and Government review this onlending rate
periodically during the commitment period of the credit, and adjust it in
line with major changes in domestic inflation and in the overall interest
rate structure. Agreement was reached with Government on this proposal
during credit negotiations.
3.17      UDB's lending is for maturities ranging from 3 months to 15
years. The shorter maturities, (i.e. those of less the 12 months) would be
discontinued when UDB stops lending for commerce.  UDB does not pass on the
exchange risk on its existing foreign lines of credit to subborrowers since
Government has agreed to bear such risks, and it does not charge
subborrowers for this. For the proposed IDA credit, agreement was reached
with Government to carry the exchange risk, and to charge to subborrowers a
1% per annum fee.
3.18      Operations:  Annex 3 contains a summary of UDB's operations
through December 31, 1980 together with an estimate for the year 1981.
Through year-end 1980, UDB had committed 10/ 1839 loans totalling about
Shs 366 million. It has not approved any equity investments. The level of
new commitments during the past three years has been low relative to
previous activity, averaging only about Shs 40 million per year (US$5.3
million equivalent based on predevaluation exchange rates). This lack of
growth, even in nominal terms, reflects the highly unsettled environment
within Uganda during the time period. The estimated sharp increase in 1981
commitments to Shs 1,343 million (US$16.8 million equivalent) is due
primarily to the anticipated commitments in the second half of the year of
funds recently borrowed from ADB and the EEC. In addition, commitments of
local currency funds are expected to double in 1981 because of increased
demand in a more stable environment and availability of new funds from
paid-in Government equity. Disbursements have historically been almost as
large as commitments, with low levels of undisbursed commitments on a
year-to-year basis, because of the small average size and local currency
nature of the loans.
10/ UDB does not record approvals separately from commitments.



- 17 -
3.19      To date, UDB's loans have been predominantly of small size; loans
of under Shs 500,000 have represented about 95% of the number and 49% of
the value of past commitments. The average size of loans has been about
Shs 340,000 (US$44,000) for industrial and agricultural loans, with trade
and commerce loans typically smaller. Over the 1978-1980 period, industry
and transport loans represented about 46% of the number and 57% of the
value of commitments. About 28% of the value of commitments have been for
agricultural loans and 15% have been for trade and commerce. Industrial
lending is widely diversified by subsector. Agricultural lending has
focused on livestock for medium scale ranches and crops for farms.
3.20      Resources:  Until recently UDB's only borrowing was a Shs 9
million (including accumulated interest) Saudi Arabian loan channelled
through Government in local currency. As undisbursed commitments at
December 31, 1980 amounted to only Shs 4.4 million, almost all of the
current assets (to the extent that current portions of long term loans and
accumulated interest are collected) are available for new commitments.
With respect to foreign exchange resources, UDB obtained three new lines of
credit in 1981: an ADB line of credit in an amount of Shs 970 million
(Units of Account 10 million) for industrial rehabilitation; a second ADB
line for the same amount for agricultural lending; and an EEC line of Shs
145 million available for lending to medium and small scale industry on a
revolving basis. Processing of a number of subprojects under these lines
is well underway and UDB expects to commit about Shs 1,250 million or about
60% of these lines of credit in 1981, leaving about Shs 835 million
available for future commitments.
3.21      Portfolio:  As of June 30, 1981 UDB had a portfolio consisting of
1,071 loans with a value of about Shs 126 million. While detailed
information on loans in the portfolio is not available, they appear to be
well diversified on a subsectoral basis, with very few projects still under
implementation. All the loans were in local currency. The quality of this
portfolio is not good, which is not surprising in view of the extremely
difficult conditions which UDB has been facing. As of June 30, 1981, 672
loans were in arrears totalling Shs 95.2 million. Arrears of over three
months affected 63% of the number of projects and 60% of the value of the
loans oustanding. However, total arrears, including interest, amount to
76% of the value of the principal oustanding suggesting that arrears have
been accumulating over a considerable period of time for many of these
projects. In addition to the arrears, UDB has written off Shs 32.3 million
relating to 597 projects as bad debts. Existing provisions totalling Shs
12.9 million are clearly inadequate and UDB plans to have provisions
carefully reviewed, and probably increased substantially, in conjunction
with the audit now in process for the 1980 and 1981 accounts (para 3.15).
It should be noted however that after the June 1981 float and devaluation,
the value of this portfolio has been significantly reduced (from $15.8
million equivalent to $1.6 million equivalent), and its quality therefore
has very little impact on UDB's future financial viability and
creditworthiness.
3.22      Financial Performance and Condition:  Annex 4 shows UDB's audited
income statements for 1977-1979, unaudited 1980 accounts and estimated
accounts for 1981. UDB has made losses, usually small, in every year
except in 1980. It is anticipated that, following the audit, the 1980



- 18 -
accounts will show a relatively large loss because of an increase in
provisions which may, consequently, sharply reduce the provisions expense
estimated for 1981. Despite low financial expenses, UDB has been making
little profit before provisions and taxes because of administrative
expenses, which amounted to 7.2% of average total assets in 1980. The high
administrative expenses are a consequence of UDB's sensible strategy of
attempting to hold its existing organization relatively intact even though
lending levels were not increasing in a highly inflationary environment.
The anticipated marked deterioration in profitability in 1981 is due, in
part, to UDB's gearing up to support sharply increased levels of lending in
late 1981, hence providing relatively little financial income to support
the increased expense. Whilst the recent increases in interest rates will
improve profitability, the principal source of improvement should come from
sharply increased levels of loans outstanding relative to operating
expenses.
3.23      UDB's balance sheets, cash flow statements and financial ratios
for the past four years (Annexes 5, 6 and 7) reflect the relative
stagnation of its operations. While the net loan portfolio oustanding
decreased over the period, total assets increased by about Shs 94 million
because of an increase in paid-up capital. The bulk of this capital
increase was invested by UDB in treasury bills, with the result that a high
proportion of its assets as of December 1980 (27%), was very liquid.
Because of its limited past borrowings, UDB's debt to equity ratio was very
low at 0.1/1 as of December 1980.
3.24      Projected Operations:  Projections of operations for UDB through
1986 are shown in annex 3. These projections are in current terms and
assume a gradual improvement in economic conditions in Uganda over the
period. UDB has, excluding the 25 subprojects identified for this
industrial rehabilitation credit, a pipeline of 30 agricultural projects
representing loans of Shs 34 million and 17 industrial projects which would
require about Shs 185 million in UDB financing. Based on this pipeline,
UDB expects its new local currency commitments to nearly double in 1981 and
again in 1982 from its very low 1980 base. Thereafter, it projects a
moderate 22% annual average growth in nominal terms, with agricultural
lending growing somewhat faster than industrial lending. As already noted
(para 3.03), UDB plans to gradually phase out new trade and commerce
lending over the next four years because of difficulties in administering
and collecting this large portfolio of very small loans in a non-priority
lending area.
3.25      UDB made its first foreign exchange loans in 1981.  Because of
the urgent needs for rehabilitation of a number of relatively large scale
projects and the anticipated availability of substantial funding for this
purpose, UDB's foreign exchange commitments and disbursements during the
1981-1984 period are projected to be extremely large relative to past
lending levels and its existing total asset base. Total commitments are
expected to average Shs 1,900 million over these four years compared with
1980 commitments of Shs 49 million (or about Shs 490 million in comparable
post-float shillings). Eighty percent of the commitments for these four
years would be for industrial and transport projects. In 1985 and



- 19 -
thereafter, foreign exchange lending is expected to continue, but at lower
levels after the principal rehabilitation requirements have been funded.
Annual disbursements, similarly, are expected to be high, about Shs 585
million in 1981 and Shs 820 million in 1982. These large increases in
UDB's operations are a necessary response to the funding requirements of
the urgent national economic rehabilitation effort, in the absence of other
national institutions which could share responsibility for this role.  It
will, of course, impose a major challenge and significant strain on UDB to
implement this program.
3.26      Resource Requirements and Financial Plan:  UDB's operations plan
for the three year period ending December 31, 1984 calls for about Shs
5,677 million in foreign exchange commitments and Shs 673 million in local
currency commitments. Anticipated uncommitted resources at the beginning
of the period included Shs 1,262 million in foreign exchange and Shs 55
million in local currency. The financial plan for the 1982-1984 period is
forecast as follows (in Shs million):
Foreign   Local   Total
Total Commitments from 1982 to end 1984                 5,677      673    6,350
Resources Available for Commitment at end 1981
ADB I and II                                   837       -        837
Indian Loan                                    425       -        425
Local Resources                                 -        55        55
Subtotal                                1,262       55    1,317
Resource Gap                                            4,415      618    5,033
To be financed by:
IDA Credit                                   2,400       -     2,400
OPEC/EIB Co-financing                        1,600       -      1,600
Unidentified New Borrowing                     415       -        415
New Paid-in Equity (from Govt)                  -       161       161
Cash from Operations                            -       264       264
Collections                                     -       298       298
Subtotal                                4,415      723    5,138
3.27      The proposed IDA credit would finance 54% of the foreign exchange
resource gap over the three year period. The proposed OPEC/EIB
co-financing is at an early stage of discussion and if it is made available
in the amount indicated, would finance an additional 36% of the gap. UDB
has not identified other sources of foreign exchange during the time period
to finance the remaining 9% although they are hopeful that they might
obtain an additional loan from ADB, probably for agricultural lending. The
financial plan shows available local resources in excess of requirements
because of limited local currency lending opportunities.   Consequently,
current assets available for short term investment will be substantial.



- 20 -
3.28      Projected Financial Condition and Performance:  UDB's projected
financial statements and financial ratios are shown in Annexes 4, 5, 6 and
7. After a substantial loss in 1982, due to the need to take large
provisions 11/ related to potentially significant bad debt risks
associated with the large increase in the loan portfolio, UDB is expected
to make a small after tax profit in 1983. Thereafter, profits steadily
increase and reach Shs 147 million or an adequate 2.3% on average total
assets by 1986. It should be noted that these projections, which depart
dramatically from previous history of the institution and reflect large
loans to potentially high risk clients, are subject to an unusually large
range of variation. To ensure profitability in this high risk situation,
UDB needs unusually large spreads on its onlending; hence the 7% spread
proposed for the portion of the IDA credit to be onlent (para 4.15).
Projected debt service coverage which hovers at about 1.5 is adequate.
3.29      UDB's projected balance sheets reflect the rapid growth which the
institution will experience as a result of the rehabilitation program.
Annual commitments are expected to exceed beginning total assets in 1982,
and total assets are expected to rise from about Shs 142 million in 1980 to
Shs 4,654 million at year-end 1984. UDB will, therefore, need substantial
new equity to support this growth in assets. As already noted (para 3.04)
the Government has increased UDB's authorized capital from Shs 500 million
to Shs 2,000 million and will increase its paid-in capital to Shs 500
million by June 1985. To establish an appropriate base, it is necessary in
addition (para 3.04), that the first US$10 million (Shs 800 million
equivalent) in disbursements under the IDA credit be in the form of
Government paid-in capital in UDB. With the additional equity from these
two sources, UDB will have projected debt to equity ratios ranging from
2.8/1 to 3.7/1 over the 1982-1986 time period. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with UDB that its debt to equity ratio will not
exceed 4/1. The current ratio gradually increases from 2.5 in 1982 to 3.2
in 1984 then begins to gradually decline. Basic assumptions underlying
UDB's financial projections are in the project file.
Evaluation
3.30      UDB started, and has operated in an environment which has been
difficult for institution building. There was strong political
interference in the management of public institutions; there was severe
economic stagnation; and there was none of the external financial and
technical support typically available to institutions of its type.
Evaluated against this background UDB has performed creditably. It has
managed to retain a cadre of Ugandan professional staff with the
appropriate background for development banking; it has developed a system
of policies and procedures which go to make a functioning institution; and
it has managed to support itself financially in spite of a small and poor
quality portfolio which is an inevitable consequence of its environment.
Since 1979, it has started a process of institutional and financial
11/ Projections assume bad debt provisions of 8% of outstanding loan
portfolio and 16% of accrued interest income.



- 21 -
restructuring, with strong support from ADB, EEC, UNDP and IDA. This
process will take time to complete, but UDB's condition and capabilities
have already improved. It is our judgement that it is a suitable channel
for an IDA credit.
B. Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB)
3.31      History and Role:  The Uganda Commercial Bank was established in
1965 under an Act of Parliament. It was conceived as a successor to the
Uganda Credit and Savings Bank from which it inherited nine branches with
Shs 42 million in deposits and Shs 20 million in advances. Since 1965, UCB
has grown steadily, despite the difficult environment in Uganda during the
seventies, to become the predominant banking institution in Uganda. As of
30th September, 1981, it had about Shs 11.4 billion in total assets, 2,570
employees and 54 branches located throughout the country.
3.32      UCB's role is largely that of a commercial bank.  It mobilizes
deposits from the public, advances credit to enterprises in all sectors of
the economy, and provides other traditional banking services. In addition
to these general commercial banking activities, it engages in small scale
industrial and agricultural term lending and the administration of several
Government development funds on a managed funds basis.
3.33      Capital, Ownership and Board:  UCB's present authorised capital
is Shs 300 million of which Shs 130 million is paid up. Government is the
sole shareholder, as stipulated in UCB's act. Agreement was reached with
Government during negotiations to increase the authorized capital to Shs 1
billion by June 1983 and to increase its paid in capital in UCB to Shs 300
million by June 1985. This implies additional payments by Government
amounting to Shs 170 million. Because of budgetary constraints, this will
be tranched, with Shs 60 million each to be paid in fiscal years 83 and 84,
and the balance of Shs 50 million in fiscal year 85. Further increases of
UCB's paid in capital beyond Shs 300 million may be necessary, given the
expected growth in UCB's assets and liabilities. IDA will therefore permit
Government to use $1.25 million of disbursements of the proposed credit for
UCB as Government equity contributions.
3.34      Management, Organization and Staff:  Management of UCB is vested
in a nine member Board of Directors whose chairman is the chief executive
officer, with responsibility for the day to day administration of the
institution. This Chairman and Managing Director is appointed by the
President. The incumbent, appointed in 1979, is an experienced commercial
banker with prior experience spanning ten years in two well known
international banks. The rest of the Board is appointed by the Minister of
Finance. Although the UCB act provides for a Deputy Managing Director also
appointed by the President, and also expected to serve on the Board, this
position has never been filled. Instead, the Board has proposed to



- 22 -
Government the creation of two new senior management positions under the
Managing Director; a General Manager for Operations and a General Manager
for Administration. Once the Government's approval is received, the
positions are likely to be filled from within the Bank through promotions.
3.35      The Bank is organised at headquarters into eight operating and
support divisions each headed by a Chief Manager. In addition, the 54
branches are under the direction of four area managers.  Of the 2,570
employees the Bank had as of September 1981, 141 were senior level
professionals. Of these, 129 were general commercial bankers with training
in commercial bank procedures, financial analysis, etc. while 12 were
specialists such as engineers and lawyers. With the present volume of
business, the professional staffing position appears to be adequate. In
general, UCB has not experienced difficulty in recruiting and training
suitably qualified Ugandans when needed because it is considered one of the
best employers in Uganda. It has its own training school for staff
development.
3.36      The unit which will have primary responsibility for the work
related to the proposed IDA credit is the Credit Division, which looks
after the loan operations of the Bank. This division has a credit
processing unit whose responsibilities include recommending and/or
approving credit applications which are submitted by the branches, and a
control unit which is responsible for the administration of loans and debt
recovery. The division currently has 16 professional level staff,
including economists, financial analysts, an industrial engineer and an
agriculturalist. Since the volume of SSI lending will be significantly
increased when the IDA credit becomes available, UCB's management has
decided to create a special small industry unit within the credit division,
and has allocated six professional staff to this unit. All SSI loan
applications originate from the branches, where preliminary analysis and
screening is done by the branch managers, most of whom have been trained
in SSI lending in India. The proposed nucleus staff of six in the credit
division, supplemented by the input of these branch managers would
therefore be adequate to start utilization of the IDA credit. As the
lending increases, UCB's management plans to increase the staff
accordingly. The management has also agreed to seek the services of two
expatriates experienced in teaching SSI lending techniques, to start a
program in UCB's training school. This will provide a cost effective way
of training a large number of the professional staff in this activity. UCB
will seek financing for these expatriates under the IDA technical
assistance credit.
3.37      Policies and Procedures:  As a commercial bank, the most
important general policy followed by UCB in its lending is that all
advances be adequately backed by sound security. Specific lending
guidelines tailored to the features of each sector and subsector of lending
also exist, and are revised from time to time in accordance with changes in
the economic environment, and in Government credit policies.  For small
industry lending, a special policy statement has been prepared and
discussed between UCB's Management and IDA, and approved by UCB's Board.
The salient guidelines in this statement are; (i) a definition of a small



- 23 -
industry as a project whose capital cost does not exceed Shs 25 million
equivalent; (ii) a limitation of UCB's financing per project to 80% of the
total project cost and; (iii) a limitation of the maturity of small
industry loans to a maximum of ten years.
3.38      UCB follows the normal commercial bank practices in regard to
approval, disbursements, control and recovery of advances.  Discretionary
limits for approval of loans have been prescribed by the Board of Directors
for the Managing Director, the loans committees, and the branch managers.
The current limits, now under revision, require all loans above Shs 1
million to be approved by the full Board. All borrowers are required to
apply on a standard form at a branch, where the necessary verification and
analysis of information are done.  Applications beyond the discretionary
limits of the branch manager are forwarded to the credit division together
with the manager's recommendation.  The responsibility for administering
the disbursement, utilisation and repayment of approved loans rests with
the branch manager, subject to the supervision of the control section of
the credit division. Branches are required to submit to this section on
the last day of each month a return of all overdrawn and loan accounts
outstanding.  These are reviewed to ensure that advances are in accordance
with the terms and conditions specified and repayments are regular.
Further monitoring of the condition and movement of advances in branches
are effected by inspection visits to branches by control officers from the
credit division, as well as by regular audit visits by the Bank's
inspectors.
3.39      For small industry lending, applicants have to complete a special
application form in addition to the usual application form. Branch
managers are required to do the usual pre-screening, but have no
discretionary approval limits for this type of lending, and have to send
all applications to the credit division. All small industry projects are
appraised according to a standard format which covers the commercial,
financial, technical and economic aspects of the proposal, as well as an
assessment of the experience and entrepreneural capability of the
sponsors.  The bank's existing standard form for preparing these appraisals
is adequate but complicated and may need some simplication in future to
permit faster processing of applications.
3.40      UCB prefers to disburse directly to suppliers of items financed
under it small industry loans, and would normally ask borrowers to obtain
at least three quotations as a basis for selecting a supplier.  Under
special circumstances and on justifiable grounds, funds may also be
disbursed directly to borrowers. These procurement and disbursement
procedures are adequate.
3.41      A satisfactory system of follow-up on small industry loans is yet
to be developed by UCB. Supervision has been accorded a low priority, as
only 26 loans have so far been approved. UCB will be required to rectify
this shortcoming during the implementation of the proposed credit by
introduction of a system which will involve monthly supervision of projects
in the disbursement stage, and quarterly visits to all other projects.
This will be additional to the normal watch dog functions that branch
managers exercise over clients.



- 24 -
3.42       Accounting and Auditing:  UCB has a mechanized accounting system
which is satisfactory. Its accounts are audited jointly by Messrs. Lawrie
Prophet and Company, and by Messrs. Coopers and Lybrand Ltd.  So far, UCB's
accounts have been prepared and audited on time. In future, UCB will be
required to submit copies of its audited accounts to IDA within 9 months of
the end of its fiscal year.
3.43       Operations and Portfolio:  UCB's overall lending to various
sectors as reflected in its portfolio as of the end of its 1980 fiscal
year, and as of the end of May 1981 is as follows:
Limit fixed by
Amounts in Shs millions          Bank of Uganda
30.9.80           31.5.81        as from 1.6.81
Agriculture               673.44   31.6%   704.48   33.1%             30%
Trade and Commerce        567.20   26.6%   571.29   26.9%             15%
Manufacturing             305.35   14.4%   347.77   16.4%             30%
Others                    396.13   18.6%   325.22   15.3%              -
Transport                 104.45    4.8%    93.33    4.4%             10%
Building                   18.30    0.9%    28.45    1.4%              8.5%
Mining                       6.87    0.4%      6.92    0.4%            5%
Real Estate and
Personal Loans             55.73    2.4%    40.11    1.9%              -
Government                  5.15    0.3%        -        -             -
Local Govt and
Urban Authorities          -        -        3.97    0.2%            1.5%
2132.62  100.0%  2121.54  100.0%           100.0%
3.44       It will be observed that UCB's lending to agriculture is not
significantly out of line with the guidelines set by the Central Bank. The
lending to Trade and Commerce far exceeds the limit. UCB has recently
stopped lending to this particular sector and is making endeavours to
reduce the portfolio to conform to the limit. In regard to manufacturing,
the limiting factor is the very low production of industrial units because
of the war damage, and shortages of spare parts and raw materials caused by
the foreign exchange constraint. The lending for agriculture has been
mainly for crop finance which includes purchase, processing and marketing
of crops. Normally, full repayment of these advances are made at the end
of the crop cycle.  Other sector advances (except for real estate loans)
are mainly for meeting the working capital needs of the concerns and are on
a short term basis. In practice these advances have been carried over from
year to year to meet the ongoing working capital needs of the borrowers.



- 25 -
3.45      The size and diversity of UCB's portfolio, and the carry-over
feature in the majority of the accounts make it difficult to assess the
quality of this portfolio by standard arrears analysis.  The general
economic situation of Uganda however suggests that a good number of the
accounts are inactive and inadequately serviced. For example, about 47% of
the total advances as of September 30, 1980 were to parastatal bodies.
Most of these were not operating satisfactorily and had insufficient
turnover in their accounts. Because of these problems and uncertainties
UCB has been fairly conservative in making provisions. As of September 30,
1980, its net provision for bad and doubtful debts was Shs 185 million.
This was a little over 8% of the total advances, compared to a normal
proportion of about 2% for most commercial banks.  In addition, the bank
had accumulated inner reserves, which are an added protection for possible
loan losses, of Shs 53 million.
3.46      The portfolio of small industry loans as of September 30, 1980
was Shs 7.13 million, a negligible proportion of the total portfolio. The
arrears on this amounted to Shs 2.87 million. Of this, Shs 1.75 million
relates to a loan to a small knitting factory for purchase of local
machinery and equipment. The project has been shut down since the war
because the equipment was partly looted and partly damaged. Without
rehabilitation, recovery of the loan is doubtful and provisions may have to
be made. The remaining Shs 1.12 million relates to four slow accounts, two
of which (Shs 0.62 million) are potentially bad and may have to be written
off.
3.47      Financial Performance, Situation, and Prospects:  Annexes 9, 10
and 11 show summarized audited financial statements and selected ratios for
UCB from 1976 to 1980. Except for 1979, when UCB made a loss because of
war-related damages and write-offs, it operated profitably during the
period under review. Its net profits increased from Shs 11 million in
1976, representing 0.5% of its working resources (defined in annex 11), to
Shs 65 million, representing 1.04% of working resources in 1980. A net
income to working resources ratio of more than 1% is considered good for a
commercial bank. UCB's other financial performance indicators are also
good. Its management expense ratio, which measures the proportion of
income going to overhead, has, except in the loss making year of 1979, been
below the 60% considered desirable. UCB has been able to perform so well
financially largely because of the substantial spread, exceeding 7% in each
of the 5 years under review, it has been working with. Since this spread
is a function of deposit and lending rates set by the central bank, UCB has
largely benefitted from the Government policy of keeping deposit rates low.
3.48      UCB experienced substantial growth in nominal terms between 1976
and 1980. Its total assets increased from Shs 2.2 billion to Shs 7.2
billion; its deposits from Shs 2.1 billion to Shs 6.2 billion; and its
advances from Shs 0.9 billion to Shs 2.2 billion. This growth in assets
and deposits was not accompanied by increases in UCB's paid in capital,
which remained at Shs 30 million.  Thus, even though UCB's reserves tripled
between 1976 and 1980 from Shs 32 million to Shs 97 million, its total
equity base did not increase enough to maintain its leverage ratio (total
assets/equity) at a satisfactory level. This leverage ratio doubled from
an average of 34 in 1976-1978, to 61 in 1980. The increase in UCB's
authorized capital, and the planned increases in its paid in capital, would
lead to a reduction in its leverage to acceptable levels.



- 26 -
3.49        As noted in paragraph 2.21, the economic decline of Uganda has
severely limited lending opportunities for the commercial banks. As of
September 1980, UCB's total advances was only 35% of its total deposits,
half of the 70% permitted by the Central bank. The estimate for September
1981 is 38%, still well below the permissible limit. Because of the nature
of its operations, growth in UCB's resources and lending will depend mainly
on developments in the economy. Since such developments are difficult to
forecast, medium term operational and financial projections have not been
prepared for UCB. It should be expected however that if the economy picks
up, demand for credit will increase and lending opportunities will expand
for the commercial banks. UCB, being the major commercial bank, (it
handles about 50% of deposits and 44% of advances) should be expected to
take a large share of the expanding business. If the economy stagnates,
UCB is still likely to retain a large share of the limited commercial
banking business. Its financial prospects are therefore fairly good,
provided it continues to obtain an adequate spread. To ensure that its
financial performance does not deteriorate, it is to be given a spread
similar to what it has been obtaining, on the proposed IDA credit (para
4.15), even though this credit and the loans it will finance will represent
a small proportion of UCB's resources and operations over the next five
years.
Evaluation
3.50      UCB is a well established bank, and the largest financial
institution in Uganda. It is reasonably well staffed and has been
performing well financially. On its own initiative, it started a scheme
for term lending to small industries, trained staff in this area and
introduced appropriate procedures for implementing this scheme. Foreign
exchange shortages however frustrated successful implementation of the
scheme. It is our judgement that with foreign exchange resources, the
scheme could be successfully reactivated, and that UCB is a suitable
channel for an IDA credit for that purpose.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The proposed project has two objectives:  First to rehabilitate a
number of industrial projects to restore some of the domestic capacity for
producing essential goods and services, and, second, to strengthen UDB and
UCB to more effectively undertake the intermediation function for
industrial rehabilitation and development.
B. Description
4.02      The proposed project will have two components.  The main
component is a line of credit of $30 million to UDB for financing the
capital investment necessary to rehabilitate selected medium and large
scale industrial projects. The second component is a line of credit of $5
million to UCB for financing capital investment for the rehabilitation of



- 27 -
small industries, defined as projects whose fixed assets (excluding land)
after rehabilitation do not exceed the equivalent of US$300,000.
4.03      For both components, the capital expenditures which will be
eligible for financing will include:
(i) Plant and machinery: replacement of obsolete,
worn-out or damaged equipment; balancing
equipment; expansion equipment in cases where this
is the only technically feasible way to
rehabilitate; and the costs of installation and
commissioning of all such equipment;
(ii) Spare parts: up to two years stock of spare parts
for plant and machinery;
(iii) Transport equipment: trucks and other transport
equipment;
(iv) Civil works: repairs of existing structures and
civil works;
(v) Technical Assistance: costs of key expatriate
management staff for operation of projects for a
period of up to two years after rehabilitation;
and
(vi) Raw materials: up to six months requirements of
imported raw materials for fully utilizing
rehabilitated equipment. 12/
4.04      Medium and Large Industries:  This component will finance
projects selected from the short list of 25 industrial enterprises shown in
annex 12. These 25 projects have been selected from a list of over 100
enterprises requiring funds for rehabilitation of capital assets, primarily
on the basis of economic and technical criteria. From the economic point
of view, projects which seem to have the potential to save foreign exchange
directly through producing essential consumer goods and construction
materials; and those which are likely to contribute indirectly to foreign
exchange earnings through producing essential inputs for agricultural
activities, have been pre-selected. From the technical point of view those
pre-selected emerged, after a preliminary review of the engineering
feasibility of the required rehabilitation and the technical competence of
existing managers, as clear priorities. It will be noted that the list
excludes coffee and tea processing plants and cotton ginneries. This is
because funding for rehabilitation of these facilities is available from
other donors. There are other industrial projects which also meet these
pre-selection criteria but which are not included because they are complex
projects with fairly substantial funding requirements (e.g. the sugar
projects).
12/ Raw materials are included because it is estimated that whatever is
financed under the reconstruction credit would have been already utilized
by the time the rehabilitated equipment are ready for use.



- 28 -
4.05      UDB will select final beneficiaries from this list, on the basis
of thorough appraisal of each project covering;
(i) the economic benefits of the proposed
rehabilitation. Although the pre-selection
process has eliminated projects without obvious
economic merit, even those on the list would
require thorough economic analysis. Because of
the existing foreign exchange problem, the
economic evaluation would emphasize the foreign
exchange implications of rehabilitating a
project. Projects which will not generate net
foreign exchange savings after rehabilitation
would not be approved. In addition, to ensure
that funds are not spent on rebuilding a project
which would potentially not be efficient in the
long term in Uganda, the economic rate of return
concept will be used in the selection process.
(ii) the appropriateness of the engineering and the
technical design of the proposed rehabilitation
and the cost estimates;
(iii) the financial situation of the project and its
financial restructuring needs, either in the form
of injection of new equity and/or repayment,
rescheduling or cancellation of debts.
Additionally, the financial viability of the
enterprise after rehabilitation;
(iv) the quality and competence of management. This is
especially relevant for the public sector
projects. In cases where existing managers have
no demonstrable background and experience in the
business, installation of competent management
would be a condition of lending. Additionally,
for public sector projects now managed directly
from a Ministry, a condition of lending would be a
transfer of such projects to an appropriate
parastatal, or their incorporation as autonomous
entities; and
(v) the ownership situation of the enterprise/project.
Enterprises with potentially complex ownership and
compensation disputes will be avoided.
During negotiations agreement was reached with UDB and Government on these
appraisal and final selection criteria.
4.06      Small Industries:  Although it is not practical to pre-select
eligible projects for this component, annex 13 provides a summary of the
types of projects to be rehabilitated under this component. The priority
subsectors would be food processing (e.g. maize and flour mills),
production of rudimentary farm implements (e.g. ox ploughs, wheel barrows),



- 29 -
and repair and service units (e.g. engineering workshops).  In addition to
financing rehabilitation of existing projects, funds under this component
would also be available for financing new units provided they fall within
the priorities set above, and provided the sponsors can demonstrate prior
experience in the type of business they are proposing. Additional
selection criteria for beneficiaries under this component will be;
(i) undisputed ownership of the facilities to be rehabilitated;
(ii) financial viability of the enterprise; (iii) entrepreneural and
technical skills of the sponsors/managers, and their demonstrated ability
to properly run the business without external technical assistance; and
(iv) the degree of dependence of the project on imported inputs. Most of
the units in the priority subsectors would not normally need to import
their raw materials directly and these would receive priority in
selection. During negotiations, agreement was reached with UCB and
Government on these selection criteria.
C. Costs and Financing
4.07      Medium and Large Industries Component:  Since the final
definition and assessment of the physical rehabilitation necessary to
restore the productive capacity of these projects would only be made after
the in-depth appraisal to be undertaken by UDB, the current project cost
estimates are fairly tentative.
4.08      The estimated foreign exchange costs of rehabilitating the short
listed 25 medium and large scale projects is US$152.1 million, broken down
as follows;
Plant, Machinery and equipment          US$ 62.2 million
Imported Raw Materials                      54.3
Others 13/                                  35.6
Total                             US$152.1
The estimated requirement per project is shown in annex 12.  It will be
noted that 7 out of the 25 projects have estimated requirements exceeding
$10 million. The estimated costs for 4 of these 7 (the oil, soap, glass
and steel mill projects) are based on rehabilitation proposals involving
major reconstruction of the plants, including some expansion. Although the
full costs of these are included in the cost estimates, these projects
should be rehabilitated in phases because of the foreign exchange
constraint, and it is the intention that only the first phases of such
rehabilitation, costing much less than indicated, would be considered under
the proposed credit. The final cost of this component will therefore be
less than the $152.1 million (about $60 million) currently indicated.
4.09      In addition to these foreign costs, some local capital costs,
mainly import duties and civil works, would be incurred in rehabilitating
13/ 2 years spares, expatriate technical assistance, civil works and
vehicles.



- 30 -
these projects. These would however represent a small proportion of the
total rehabilitation costs, and no preliminary estimates of these local
costs are yet available.
4.10       The financing plan for this medium and large scale industries
component is not yet firm. The 25 projects represent a fairly small number
of industrial projects of some priority whose rehabilitation seem
justified. Moreover there are interelationships between these projects
which make it important that most of them be rehabilitated together.
Ideally therefore, it would be desirable to raise enough financing through
the proposed credit to enable UDB provide adequate funds to all these 25
projects 14/ within the 3 year time frame of the proposed project. We
estimate that with $60 million, it will be possible to finance all 25
projects, including the first phases of rehabilitating the 7 larger
projects. Co-financing possibilities are being explored by Government with
the assistance of IDA and there are strong possibilities of UDB raising
resources from the EIB, and the OPEC Fund. Other sources of
co-financing, 15/ especially for the 7 large projects, are likely to be
suppliers' credit, and equity funds from some of the project owners. If
these co-financing possibilities do not materialize, the $30 million of IDA
funds will be used to finance either a smaller number of the 25 projects,
or if feasible, more scaled down rehabilitation proposals for all 25.
4.11      Small Industries Component:  The estimated foreign exchange
required by an indicative sample of small industries in the three
subsectors proposed as priorities for rehabilitation is as follows:
$ Million
Machinery &       Raw
No. of Projects        Equipment    Materials   Total
Food processing                28                3.3            1.0      4.3
Farm Implements                 4               1.0             0.3      1.3
Engineering Workshops          19                1.7            1.1      2.8
51               6.0            2.4       8.2
4.12      On the basis of these estimates, the proposed IDA credit of $5.0
million for this component will not meet all the potential demand.  It will
be adequate, however, to enable UCB finance, on a fairly selective basis,
between 40 and 50 small projects over the 3 year time frame of the project.
4.13      Terms of IDA Credit:  The IDA Credit of $35 million would be made
to Government on standard IDA terms. As noted in paragraphs 3.04 and 3.33
Government would use $10 million and $1.25 million respectively of the $30
million and $5 million allocated to UDB and UCB, as equity subscription in
these intermediaries. Government will onlend the balances of $20 million
and $3.75 million to UDB and UCB respectively.
14/ Assuming that all the 25 meet the selection criteria after appraisal.
T5/ IFC is also interested in financing the UGMA engineering project.



- 31 -
4.14      UDB and UCB will lend credit funds to subborrowers at a minimum
interest rate of 14% per annum, which is the prevailing rate in Uganda for
industrial lending. Inflation in Uganda, which had averaged over 50% in
the past 3 years, seems to have declined to a negligible rate since June
1981, as prices of most consumer goods have either fallen or remained
stable. The 14% onlending rate is therefore currently positive in real
terms and adequate.  It is Government policy to periodically review the
overall interest rate structure on the basis of the liquidity situation in
the banking system, the incidence of inflation, and the level of
international interest rates. IDA wili theLefore periodically review the
onlending rates proposed for this credit with Government on the basis of
these criteria, to ensure their continued adequacy. As indicated in
paragraphs 3.28 and 3.49, both UDB and UCB would require a spread of 7.5%
per annum on the portions of the credit to be onlent by Government, to
adequately cover their administrative costs and financial risks.
Government will therefore onlend credit funds to them at 6.5% per annum.
UDB could also utilize credit funds for equity investments in any of the
projects, in accordance with its policies on such investments.
4.15      Government will bear the exchange risk on the credit to protect
both the intermediaries and subborrowers from the adverse financial effects
of major adjustments in the exchange rate, because of Government's relative
strength in carrying such a risk in Uganda's circumstances. For this
service, the subborrowers will pay a fee of 1% per annum on their subloan
balances, through UDB and UCB, to Government. In practice this fee will be
collected as part of the interest charges, making the effective interest
rate to subborrowers a minimum of 15%, and to the intermediaries 7.5%.
4.16      The $20 million (or more) that Government would onlend to UDB
will be amortized in accordance with the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of the subloans UDB makes from this amount. In line with UDB's
existing policy (paragraph 3.17), the maximum term of each subloan would be
15 years, including the appropriate grace period. The $3.75 million (or
more) that Government would onlend to UCB will be amortized according to a
fixed schedule of 10 years, including 4 years of grace, starting from the
date of credit effectiveness. UCB's policy limits the maturity of its
small industry loans to 10 years, but the average maturity of subloans
under the proposed credit is projected at about 6 years, including a year
of grace. The fixed schedule of 10 years is not therefore likely to create
any cash flow problems on the IDA credit for UCB. The proposed grace
period of 4 years will be adequate for UCB to fully commit the funds (2
years) and disburse a substantial part of it, before it starts repayments
to Government.
4.17      UDB will not be permitted to commit more than $4.0 million to any
single project from the proposed credit. This limit exceeds its normal
limit of 20% of its net worth (paragraph 3.11), but is necessary to enable
it finance all of the foreign exchange requirements of most of the projects
on the short list. Moreover, the $4.0 million will represent about 26% of
UDB's net worth after the implementation of the recapitalization measures
proposed (paragraph 3.04), and is therefore still quite prudent for
purposes of diversification of UDB's risks.



- 32 -
4.18      There will be no free limit applicable to the UDB portion of the
Credit, because it is considered desirable for IDA to review all the
subprojects to be financed under this component. This approach will enable
IDA offer its advice on each project as well as on measures to strengthen
the industrial project appraisal capability of UDB. For the UCB component,
IDA will approve a sample, consisting of the projects utilizing the first
$1.0 million of the credit, to ensure that the selection criteria and
standards proposed are followed. Both components will be available for
commitment through June 1984.
D. Project Implementation
4.19      Project Evaluation:  The primary responsibility for detailed
technical, financial, economic and commercial evaluation of the medium and
large scale projects would be with UDB's industry department. Appraisal of
the technical aspects of most projects will be complicated by the obsolete,
and run-down condition of plant and machinery, and by the range of choices
likely to be available to achieve rehabilitation. Financial appraisal will
also be complicated because of the financial situation of most of the
companies, the effects of the major devaluation, and the need for
innovative financial restructuring in most cases. Although the Ugandan
engineers and financial analysts in UDB's industry department are
knowledgeable about project evaluation, their experience with the type of
rehabilitation work proposed is limited. The assistance provided by the
EEC goes some way in providing the necessary expertise and supplementing
the experience of the Ugandan staff. However, the proposed project would
involve the department in a large number of detailed appraisals within a
short time span (at least 25 projects in 2 years), in addition to its
normal work. The EEC assistance would be inadequate to enable UDB cope
with this work.
4.20      To provide the additional expertise considered necessary, UDB
plans to obtain the services of expatriate consultants to assist in
appraising the more complex of the projects.  The costs of this assistance
will be financed from the IDA technical assistance credit to Uganda, and an
understanding to this effect has been reached with Government during
negotiations. It is estimated that about 30 manmonths of such consulting
assistance would be required, and it is planned to seek the services of one
consulting firm to help appraise all the selected projects. Draft terms of
reference for this consulting assignment are shown in annex 14.
4.21      The evaluation of the small industry projects will be done by
UCB's credit division, which will be strengthened by additional staff (para
3.36). Since complex technical and financial issues are not anticipated in
the evaluation of the types of projects envisaged, technical assistance to
UCB is not considered critical for successful implementation of its
component of the credit.
4.22      Procurement:  For projects under both credit components, it is
expected that the bulk of the items required for rehabilitation (especially
spare parts) may not be standardized, and may require special order



- 33 -
procurement from the suppliers of the original plant and equipment.
Additionally, except for those projects whose rehabilitation would involve
replacement of major plant and equipment, it is estimated that the
purchases would involve a large number of inexpensive items. For these
reasons International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would not be the normal
means for procurement under the project but could be used for large
contracts if justified.  Instead UDB and UCB would be permitted to use
their normal procurement procedures (paragraphs 3.14 and 3.40) which call
for some form of comparative shopping to ensure that items procured are
appropriate and at a reasonable cost. UDB would be required, for each
project it will finance under the credit, to justify in its appraisal
report the method of procurement proposed for items to be financed with IDA
funds. IDA will review and approve each case as part of the review and
approval of the subprojects. For UCB, because the average procurement
amount will be smaller than UDB's, prior IDA review of procurement will not
be necessary, although some selective review will be undertaken during
supervision.
4.23      Disbursement:  The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed to
finance 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods and services, 80% of the
local cost of goods procured locally but previously imported, and 65% of
the total cost of civil works; the latter two percentages being the
estimated foreign exchange component of these costs. Annex 15 shows the
projected schedule of disbursements for the credit. Disbursements are
expected to start in the third quarter of FY83 and be completed by December
1987, spanning a period of 6 years after board approval. This is less
than the average of 9 years for development finance company credits in East
Africa, as indicated in the regional disbursement profiles, because it is
expected that the implementation of the types of rehabilitation investments
to be financed under the credit would take a shorter time compared to the
implementation of new projects normally financed under DFC credits.
4.24      Reporting:  UDB will be required to submit quarterly reports on
its operations, resources, portfolio, accounts and progress in
implementation of subprojects to be financed under the proposed credit to
IDA. UCB will be required to submit quarterly reports on its SSI
operations to IDA.
E. Benefits and Risks
4.25      The main benefit to be derived from the project would be an
increase in the supply of basic manufactured goods in Uganda; a development
which should go a long way in stimulating productivity in the economy and
improving security. As noted in paragraph 2.01, current production and
supply of such goods is very low due to acute underutilization of installed
capacity. Rehabilitation of such installed capacity would be the quickest
and most economical way of increasing output. Although it is not possible
to give an accurate estimate of the incremental production that will result
from the credit at this stage, the following table, based on the latest
information on 10 of the short-listed 25 medium and large scale projects,
gives a good indication of the optimum incremental production that could
result if these projects were successfully rehabilitated to operate at
their installed capacities.



- 34-
Annual Production Capacity
1979/80
Project                Product            Installed         Production         %
Kakira Soap           Soap                  5,000 tons        24 tons           0.5
Printpak              Paper                l,OOOm tons        lOOm tons       10.0
Associated Battery  Car Batteries           60,000 units    10,000 units   16.7
United Carbide        Dry-cell Batteries 30m units               Nil             -
Nile Breweries        Beer                 6,000cases/day  1,500cases/day 25.0
National Tobacco    Cigarettes              I billion pcs.  75m pieces         7.5
Hima Cement II        Cement                100,000 tons         Nil           -
Steel Mfg of          Steel                25,000 tons       6,250 tons       25.0
East Africa
Uganda Leather        Leather              8.6m sq/ft        4.4m sq/ft       51.0
Tanning
UGIL                  Garments             2.3m pieces       1.4m pieces    61.0
Failure to proceed with the rehabilitation program soon would cause
production to decline further and might eventually force a complete shut-
down of the plants still producing something. This will exacerbate
Uganda's already serious economic problems.
4.25       A second major benefit of the project is expected to be the
institutional and financial strengthening of the two intermediaries. These
are important institutions for the overall rehabilitation of the economy,
and to the extent their ability to analyze and select rehabilitation
projects and their creditworthiness are enhanced through the technical and
financial assistance they will receive under the project, their
contribution to the rehabilitation of the economy will increase.
4.26       Many factors are likely to impinge on the success of the project,
but three deserve particular attention.  First, the project will be
implemented at a time when economic and other conditions in Uganda are
still unsettled. While the project cannot be delayed for this reason,
because it will itself contribute to improving these conditions, serious
deficiencies in infrastructural services (hotels, housing, public transport
etc.) and continued weaknesses in Government administration (foreign
exchange allocation procedures etc.) may make project implementation
difficult. Second, the intermediaries, especially UDB, will be taking
major financial risks in their onlending to enterprises for rehabilitation,
at a time when they themselves are fragile financially. While careful
appraisal and selection of final beneficiaries by these intermediaries
should reduce any default risk by subborrowers, the nature of the
environment in which these subborrowers will operate is such that even
carefully selected projects could run into financial difficulties. Third,
at the enterprise level, a number of bottlenecks are likely to emerge in
the normal operation of projects after rehabilitation.  The most important
of these would be continued shortages of inputs, both domestically procured
and imported, which are likely to occur unless agricultural production
increases simultaneously, and the country earns enough foreign exchange to
import these inputs. The selection of only priority projects which should
be given preference in future allocations of foreign exchange because they



- 35 -
will make a net foreign exchange contribution, should help mitigate this
risk. Other aspects of the project design which address these risks are;
(i) the proposed increases in the equity bases of the intermediaries and
the fairly substantial lending spreads they will get on the IDA credit.
These will help reduce the financial risks to these intermediaries; and
(ii) the inclusion of imports of 6 months raw materials and two years spare
parts in the eligible capital costs to be financed, to reduce the initial
import requirements of rehabilitated projects.  It is also important that
the impact of these risks on successful achievement of project objectives
be carefully monitored by IDA through frequent supervision of the project.
V. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
5.01      During credit negotiations, IDA reached agreements with
Government, UDB and UCB on the following issues.
A. Overall Policy Issues
(i) An agreement with Government on periodic review of
the lending rates to subborrowers under the
proposed credit (paras 3.16 and 4.14).
B. UDB Issues
(i) An agreement with UDB that it would phase out
lending for commerce and small industries by
December 1985 (para 3.03);
(ii) an agreement with Government on an increase of
UDB's authorized capital to at least Shs 1.5
billion by June 1983, and the following additional
payments to UDB's equity: Shs 100 million by June
1983; Shs 100 million by June 1984; and Shs 100
million by June 1985; for a total of Shs 300
million in three years (para 3.04);
(iii) an agreement with UDB that its audited accounts
will be made available to IDA within 9 months of
the end of the fiscal year (para 3.15); and
(iv) an agreement with UDB on a debt/equity limit of 4:1
(para 3.29).
C. UCB Issues
(i) An agreement with Government on an increase of
UCB's authorized capital to at least Shs 1 billion
by June 1983, and the following additional payments



- 36 -
to UCB's equity: Shs 60 million by June 1983; Shs
60 million by June 1984; and Shs 50 million by June
1985 for a total of Shs 170 million (para 3.33);
and
(ii)  an agreement with UCB that it will submit copies of
its audited accounts to IDA within 9 months of the
end of its fiscal year (para 3.42).
D. Project and Credit Issues
(i) An agreement with UDB on the appraisal and
selection criteria for medium and large scale
projects to be financed under the credit (para
4.05);
(ii) an agreement with UCB on the selection criteria for
small industries (para 4.06); and
(iii) an agreement with Government, UDB and UCB on the
terms of the IDA credit (paras 4.13 -4.18).



- 37 -
Annex I
Table 1:  Uganda:  Industrial Output as a Share of GDP, 1963-80
(in % and at 1966 prices)
1963  1964  1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Industrial
Output/              12.5  12.1  12.3  12.3  12.4  13.0  12.7  12.9  12.6  12.1  11.2  11.1   9.8   9.0   8.5   7.1   5.6   5.5
Monetary GDP
Industrial
Output!               8.5   8.3   8.4   8.5   8.6   9.0   8.9   9.0   8.8   8.3   7.5   7.4   6.4   5.8   5.4   4.3   3.4   3.5
Total GDP
Table 2:  Uganda:  Industrial Wage Employment, 1966-77
1966        1971        1977
(1)  Total Wage Employment                                     246,029     324,538    367,622
(2)  Total Industrial Sector Wage Employment                    78,335     108,431      106,313
(1) as % of (2)                                            31.8         33.4        28.9
Source: Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, 1971,
Statistical Abstract and the Ten Year Development Plan, 1981-90
EAPID
April 1982



- 38 -
Annex 2
Uganda: Structure of Interest Rates
(Per cent per year)
1981
June         October
Bank of Uganda
Ways and means                                                           2.5            5.0
Rediscount rate                                                          7.0            9.0
Bank rates to commercial banks                                           8.0           10.0
Treasury bills
35 days                                                                  4.71           8.0
63 days                                                                  4.95           8.5
91 days                                                                  5.08           9.0
Government stocks
5 years                                                                 8.5           11.0
10 years                                                                 9.5           11.5
15 years                                                               10.5            12.0
Commercial banks 1/
Deposit rates:
Demand deposits                                                                   Optional
Saving deposits                                                       5.0            8.0
Time deposits:
3 to  6 months
6 to  9 months
9 to 12 months
1 to  2 years                                                         6.0           12.0 2/
2 to  3 years                                                         7.0        Negotiable
3 to  5 years                                                         8.0        Negotiable
5 years and over                                                   Negotiable   Negotiable
Lending rates 3/
Agriculture                                                             8.0            13.0
Export and Manufacturing                                                12.0           14.0
Commerce                                                               12.0            15.0
Unsecured                                                              12.0            17.0
Source: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities.
1/ Minimum interest rates.
2/ One-year deposit.
3/ Maximum lending rates.
EAPID
April 1982



- 39 -
Annex 3
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Operations Summary 1978-1986
(Ush millions)
Actual                                      Projected
Year ending December 31                         Up to 1978  1978    1979        1980     1981     1982    1983      1984     1985   1986
COMMITMENTS 1/
Foreign Exchange
Industry and Transport                             -        -        -        -      921      556    2577      1501      105    125
Agriculture                                        -        -        -        -      327      322      321      400      500    600
Subtotal:                                        -        -        -        -    1248       878    2898      1901      605    725
Local Currency Loans
Industry and Transport                           119       37        9       24       40       49       59       71       84    102
Agriculture                                       78       19        1       14       45      125      156      195      244    305
Trade and Commerce                                78        7        1       11       10        8        6        4        2       0
Subtotal:                                      275       63       11       49       95      182      221      270      330    407
Total Commitments                                     275       63       11       49    1343    1060    3119    2171          935   1007
DISBURSEMENTS
Foreign Exchange                                      -        -        -        -
Industry and Transport                             -        -        -        -      424      448      736    1273      1433    786
Agriculture                                        -        -        -        -       82      244      323      341      405    350
Subtotal:                                        -        -        -        -      506      692     1059    1614    1838   1136
Local Currency
Industry and Transport                           102       41       15       30       21       40       53       64       77      91
Agriculture                                       52       16        3       12       51       80      133      172      216    270
Trade and Commerce                                72        9        3       11        7        8        7        5        4       1
Subtotal:                                     226       66       21       53       79      128      193      241      297    362
Total Disbursements                                   226       66       21       53      585      820    1252      1855    2135   1498
1/ UDB does not record approvals separately from commitments.
EAPID
April 1982



- 40 -
Annex 4
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Comparative Income Statements 1977-1986
(Ush million)
Actual                                                   Forecast
Year ending December 31                       1977        1978       1979        1980        1981       1982        1983       1984        1985        1986
INCOME
Interest on Loans                            4.2       10.7        11.6       27.3        38.4       128.2      236.7       394.8       596.8      732.3
Short Term Interest                           .5          .2         .2          .2          .5       12.3       26.3        47.4        58.7       53.6
Commissions on Loans                          .5          .8          .1         .4        6.7        14.0       49.1        52.2        35.5       18.8
Other                                         .1          .1         .1         2.0        1.0         1.2         1.4        1.7         2.1        2.5
Total Revenue                                  5.3        11.8       12.0        30.0       46.6       155.7       313.5      496.1       693.1      807.2
EXPENSE
Interest and Financial Expense                .3          .3         .3          .3       23.6        68.6      117.9       189.8      277.1       327.6
Administrative Expense                       3.8        5.9         8.5         9.2       20.5        26.7       34.6        43.3        54.1       67.7
Salaries and Wages                           2.8        2.8         2.5         3.7        8.0        10.4       12.5        15.0        18.0       21.6
Depreciation                                  .3          .5         .4          .5        1.9         2.4         3.2        3.4         4.6        5.4
Total Expense                                  7.2         9.5       11.7        13.7       54.0       108.1       168.2      251.5       353.8      422.3
PROFIT BEFORE PROVISIONS AND TAXES            (1.9)        2.3        0.3        16.3       (7-4)       47.6      145.3       244.6       339.3      384.9
Provisions - Portfolio                       -          2.8        21.6        13.0       41.0        62.0       75.0       108.0      118.0        33.0
Provisions - Interest                        -          -           -          -           3.8        12.5       23.2        38.6        58.2       71.4
Taxes                                        -          -           2.0         1.5        -           1.8       38.1        68.4       99.9       133.7
Net Profit/Loss                             (1.9)       (-.5)     (23-.3)       1.8       (52.2)     (28-7)       9.0        29.6       63.2       146.8
EAPID
April 1982



- 41 -
Annex 5
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Comparative Balance Sheets 1977-1986
(Ush million)
Actual                                                  Projected
Year ending December 31                       1977        1978       1979        1980       1981        1982       1983       1984        1985       1986
ASSETS
Current Assets                              24.8        10.9       20.3       70.5       114.9      274.1      525.1       900.3      807.1       830.7
Accrued Interest                             -         11.1         8.1       29.7        18.7       31.2        54.3       92.9      151.1       162.4
Current Portion Long Term Loans            N/A         19.7        29.7       25.8        43.0      317.0      496.0       670.0    1080.0       1354.0
Total Current Assets                        24.8       41.7        58.1      126.0       176.6      622.3     1075.4      1663.2    2038.2       2347.1
Equity Investments                           -          -           -          -           -          -          28.0      196.0      280.0       280.0
Portfolio Loans (Gross)                     111.3     119.8        75.0      103.4      629.0      1132.0     1888.0      3073.0    4128.0    4272.0
Less Provisions                            -(5.7)     (14.0)        -        (12.9)      (54.0)    (116.0)    (191.0)    (299.0)    (417.0)    (450.0)
Net Long Term Investment                   105.6      105.8        75.0       90.5      575.0      1016.0     1725.0      2970.0     3991.0    4102.0
Fixed Assets (Gross)                         5.2        7.6        10.2       14.1        23.1       28.5        30.9       33.8       43.2        47.3
Accum. Depreciation                         (1.0)      (1.3)       (1.6)      (2.0)       (3.9)      (6.3)      (9.5)    (12.9)       (17.5)      (22.9)
Fixed Assets, Net                            4.2        6.3         8.6       12.1        19..2       2.2       21.4        20.9       25.7        24.4
Total Assets                                 134.6       153.8      141.7      228.6       770.8     1660.5    2821.8    4654.1        6054.9      6473.5
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Current Portion Long Term Debt               -          -           -          5.9         1.0      235.0      371.0       505.0      870.0     1098.0
Other Current Liabilities                    2.6        5.4         5.6        5.0         9.5       12.4       15.7        19.4       24.0        29.8
Total Current Liabilities                    2.6         5.4        5.6       10.9        10.5      247.4      386.7       524.4      894.0      1127.8
Long Term Debt                               7.0        8.5         8.8        3.2      508.0      1001.0     1762.0      2907.0     3875.0     3913.0
Paid up Capital                            100.0      112.4       132.3      215.5      339.5       500.0      500.0       500.0      500.0      500.0
Quasi Capital (managed funds) 1/            34.0       34.0        34.0       34.0         -         28.0      280.0       800.0      800.0      800.0
Accumulated Retained Earnings               (9.0)      (6.5)      (39.0)     (35.0)     (87.2)    (115.9)    (106.9)       (77.3)     (14.1)      132.7
Net Worth                                  125.0      139.9       127.3      214.5      252.3       412.1      673.1      1222.7     1285.9     1432.7
Total Liabilities and Net Worth              134.6       153.8      141.7      228.6       770.8     1660.5     2821.8      4654.1     6054.9      6473.5
1/  Managed Funds to be converted to paid-in capital and disbursements of IDA credit to be converted into capital.
EAPID
April 1982



- 42 -
Annex 6
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Comparative Sources and Uses of Funds Statements 1979-1986
(Ush millions)
Actual                                      Projected
Year ending December 31                               1979       1980        1981       1982        1983       1984       1985        1986
Sources
Net Profit                                         (23.3)       1.8      (52.2)      (28.7)       9.0       29.6        63.2      146.8
Depreciation                                          .4         .5         1.9        2.4        3.2        3.4         4.6        5.4
Provisions (portfolio)                              21.6       13.0       41.0        62.0       75.0      108.0       118.0       33.0
Funds from Operations                               (1.3)      15.3       (9.3)       35.7       87.2      141.0       185.8      185.2
Increase in Share Capital                           19.9       83.2       90.0       188.5      252.0      520.0         -          -
New Borrowings                                        .3         .3      506.0      728.0      1132.0     1650.0     1838.0      1136.0
Reduction in Long Term Loans and Other              20.5       26.2       59.3       317.0      496.0      670.0     1080.0    1354.0
Total Sources                                         39.4      125.0      646.0      1269.2     1967.2     2981.0    3103.8    2675.2
Uses
Disbursements                                       20.5       52.5      585.0      820.0      1252.0    1855.0    2135.0        1498.0
Equity Investments                                   -          -          -           -         28.0      168.0        84.0        -
Reduction in Long Term Debt                          -          5.9        1.0       235.0      371.0      505.0      870.0      1098.0
Purchase of Fixed Assets                             2.7        4.0        9.0         5.4        2.4        2.9         9.4        4.1
Total Uses                                            23.2       62.4      595.0      1060.4     1653.4    2530.9       3098.4     2600.1
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                16.2       62.6       51.0       208.8      313.8      450.1         5.4       75.1
Ending Working Capital                                52.5      115.1      166.1       374.9      688.7     1138.8      1144.2     1219.3
EAPID
April 1982



- 43 -
Annex 7
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios 1978-1983
Actual                                           Projected
Year ending December 31                                     1978        1979       1980       1981        1982       1983        1984       1985        1986
A. Income as a % of Average Total Assets
Income                                                8.2        8.1        16.2 1/    9.3         12.8       14.0        13.3       12.8        12.8
Financial Expense                                       .2         .2         .2        4.7         5.7        5.3         5.1        5.1         5.2
Administrative Expense                                6.4         7.7        7.2        6.1         3.3        2.2         1.7        1.4         1.5
Provisions                                            1.9        14.6        7.0        9.0         6.1        4.4         3.9        3.3         1.7
Taxes                                                 -           1.4         .8        -            .1        1.7         1.8        1.8         2.1
Net Profit                                            (3)      (15-.8)       1.0      (10.4)       (2.4)         .4         .8        1.2         2.3
H. Profitability
Net Profit7Average Net Worth                          (.4)      (17.4)       1.1      (22.4)       (8.6)       1.7         3.1        5.0       10.8
Financial Income/Average Loans Outstanding            9.2         9.6       23.7 1/   11.3         13.4       14.9        14.6       14.1       13.9
Financial Expense/Average Debt                        3.9        3.5         3.4        9.1         7.9        7.0        6.8         6.8        6.7
Spread                                                5.3         6.1       20.3 1/    2.2          5.5        7.9         7.8        7.3        7.2
C. Capital Structure
Long Term Debt/Equity                                   .1         .1         .1        2.0         3.0        3.2         2.8        3.7        3.5
Current Ratio                                         4.1        5.1        20.0       16.8         2.5        2.8         3.2        2.3        2.1
Debt Service Coverage                                10.3        (5.5)      77.5          .5        3.0        1.6         1.6        1.5        1.4
1/ UDB accrued substantial interest income in 1980 that related to prior year operations.
EAPID
April 1982



- 44
Annex 8
UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS 1976 - 1981
(In Ush millions)
1976           1977            1978            1979              1980             1981
INCOME
a.  Interest & Discount                             140.46          179.91          245.68           265.43           391.56           439.87
b.  Other Income                                     30.62           46.76           42.43            33.44            80.31            79.38
A.  Total Income                               171.08          226.67          288.11           298.87           471.87           519.25
2.  EXPENDITURE
a.  Interest on Deposits & Borrowings                62.98           78.04          105.83          145.21            224.43          230.45
b.  Salaries & Allowances                    36.53           42.87           55.41          78.81            90.88           105.87
c.  Other Administrative Expenses            16.27  52.80  25.86  68.73  43.05  98.46  51.00  129.81  49.19  140.07  66.77  172.64
d.  Other Expenditure                                44.32           43.72           38.61            75.92            42.47            63.73
B.  Total Expenditure                          160.10          190.49          242.90           350.94           406.97           466.82
3.  NET INCOME                                           10.98           36.18           45.21           (52.07)           64.90            52.43
EAPID
April 1982



- 45 -
ANNEX 9
UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK
Comparative Appropriation Accounts
(Ushs millions)
For year ending September 30                  1976        1977      1978       1979       1980    1981(Est)
Net Profit for the year before tax            11.0       36.2       45.2      (52.1)      64.9       52.4
After Charging:
Audit fees and expenses                     0.3        0.4         0.5        0.5        0.7        1.0
Directors' allowances and expenses           0.2        0.4        0.3        0.1        0.1        0.2
Depreciation and amortization                2.5        2.0        2.9        -         13.1       18.3
Subtotal                                  3.0        2.8        3.7        0.6       13.9       19.5
Corporate tax                                  5.0             -          -          -                -
Net Profit                                     6.0       36.2       45.2      (52.1)      64.9       52.4
Unappropriated profits brought forward         0.6        0.1        0.3        0.5      (51.6)       1.3
Available for appropriation               6.6       36.3       45.5        (51.6)    13.3       53.7
Less appropriations transfer to:
Capital Reserve                             1.0       15.0        7.0        -          -          5.0
General Reserve                              2.5       6.5        10.0       -           3.0      17.0
Inner Reserves                               1.5      14.5       28.0        -          7.5       30.0
Proposed Dividend                            1.4       -          -          -          1.5        -
Total Appropriations                      6.4       36.0       45.0        -         12.0       52.0
Unappropriated profits carried forward         0.2        0.3        0.5      (51.6)       1.3        1.7
EAPID
April 1982



- 46 -
Annex 10
UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK
Comparative Balance Sheets 1976 - 1981
(In Ush millions)
For year ending September 30                 1976       1977       1978       1979      1980    1981(Est)
CAPITAL (authorized 40.0)                    30.0       30.0       30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0
RESERVES
Capital Reserve                             8.0       23.0      30.0       30.0       30.0       35.0
General Reserve                            23.5       30.0       40.0      40.0       43.0       60.0
Profit and Loss Account                     0.2        0.3       0.5      (51.6)       1.3        1.3
Training Fund                               0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5
Total Reserves                           32.2      53.8       71.0       18.9       74.8       96.8
Total Equity                             62.2      83.8      101.0       48.9      104.8      126.8
UGANDA GOVERNMENT FUNDS
Government Funding and Dairy                -          -         -          0.2        0.2        0.2
Incentive Loans
Ankole/Masaka Ranching                      2.2        2.8       3.2        3.5        3.2        3.5
Development Fund
Beef Ranching Development Project          11.3       15.0      12.6       15.1       23.8       40.5
Development Loans Fund                      4.9        5.2       5.6        5.1        5.7        5.6
Total Government Funds                   18.4      23.0       21.4       23.9       32.9       50.1
Current, Deposits and Other               2,055.5   2,763.1   3,220.9   4,684.5   6,234.3   9,636.1
Accounts including inner
reserves and provisions
Confirmed Credits, Acceptances,              44.1      271.3     194.2      111.4      749.4   1,094.3
Endorsements and Guarantees
on Account of Customers
Remittances and Drawings in transit           -          -         -         23.8       71.9      469.4
between Head Office and Branches
Total                                     2,180.2   3,141.2   3,537.5   4,892.5   7,193.3  11,376.4
LIQUID ASSETS
Cash on hand and balances with            550.5     652.3      594.0   1,927.8   2,463.3   4,804.8
the Bank of Uganda
Bills Receivable                          287.9     222.4       57.4      116.3       69.8       85.9
Short-dated Uganda Government Stocks    29.8         29.9        -          -          -          -
Total Liquid Assets                    868.2      904.6      651.4   2,044.1   2,533.1   4,890.7
Investments at Cost
Dated Stocks                              112.5     372.5      372.5      372.5      970.0      970.0
Deposits with parastatal bodies            79.4      64.4       54.4      199.4      501.8      501.8
and other
Total Investments                       191.9     436.9      426.9      571.9   1,471.8   1,471.8
Advances, Loans and Other Accounts          869.0   1,306.4   1,882.6   1,961.6   2,216.0   3,684.9
(after deducting provision for bad and
doubtful debts)
Remittances and drawings in transit         101.1       79.3     188.7        -          -          -
between Head Office and Branches
Subtotal                                  2,030.2   2,727.2   3,149.6   4,577.6   6,220.9  10,047.4
Fixed Assets, net                           105.9      142.7     193.7      203.5      223.0      234.7
Liabilities of Customers for Confirmed    44.1         271.3     194.2      111.4      749.4   1,094.3
Credits, Acceptance Endorsements and
Guarantees
Total                                     2,180.2   3,141.2   3,537.5   4,892.5   7,193.3  11,376.4
EAPID
April 1982



- 47 -
Annex 11
UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK
Financial Ratios 1976 - 1981
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
(Est.)
A. INCOME AND EXPENSES (%)
Net Income/Total Income                     6.4       16.0       15.7        -         13.7       10.0
Net Income/Equity                          17.6       43.1       45.0        -         61.9       41.3
Net Income/Working Resources 1/             0.5        1.3        1.4        -          1.0        0.5
Management Expenses Ratio 2/               44.9       46.0       54.0       84.0       57.0        n.a.
B.  SPREAD (%)
Average Interest Earned                    12.9       10.1       10.6       10.5       10.6        n.a.
Average Interest Paid                       3.1        2.8        3.3        3.1        3.0        n.a.
Spread                                   9.8        7.3        7.3        7.4        7.0        n.a.
C.  FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Current Ratio                               0.5/1     0.5/1       0.3/1      0.6/1      0.6/1      0.7/1
Total Debt/Equity                           34/1       36/1       34/1       99/1       68/1       89/1
Total Assets/Equity                         34/1       34/1       33/1       97/1       61/1       n.a.
Equity/Total Deposits (%)                   3.0        3.0        3.1        1.0        1.7        n.a.
1/ Working resources = capital + reserves + deposits + borrowings.
2/ Management expense ratio = salaries + overheads - income after interest payments.
EAPID
April 1982



UGANDA INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT
SHORT LIST OF 25 MEDIUM AND .ARGE SCALE PROJECTS FOR REHABILITATION
ESTIMATED COST US$ MILLIONS
COMPANY/PROJECT                        OWNERSHIP            PRODUCTS           PLANT   RAW MATERIALS   OTHERS -/   TOTAL         REASON FOR INCLUSION
National Tobacco Corporation              Public       Cigarettes/Tobacco       3.7          8.0           2.8        14.5      Govt revenue and export potential
Nile Breweries                            Public       Beer                     0.7          0.2           0.9         1.8       Govt revenue and basic consumer product
Emco Oil Refineries                       Joint        Vegetable Oil            8.4         10.7           5.3        24.4       Basic consumer product
Uganda Fishnets Ltd.                      Public       Nets/twine               0.5          0.3           0.1         0.9       Input to fishing industry
Uganda Garments (UGIL)                    Public       Garments                 0.2          2.8           0.1         3.1       Basic consumer product
Uganda Bata Shoe Co.                      Private      Shoes                    0.5          0.8           0.1         1.4       Basic consumer product
Uganda Leather and Tanning                Public       Tanned Leather           0.t          0.1           0.6         0.8       Input to shoe industry and export potential
Uganda Foam Industries Ltd.               Private      Matresses                0.2          0.8           0.3         1.3       Basic consumer product
Family Swamillers                         Private      Timber                   0.6           -            1.2         1.8       Key construction material
Jinja Saw Mills                           Private      Timber                   0.2           -            0.9         1.1       Key construction material
Lugogo Wood Works                         Private      Treated Timber           0.1          0.1           0.2         0.4       Key construction material
Printpak                                  Public       Packaging Materials    0.3            0.7           0.2         1.2       Input to other industries
Sanya Tissues                             Private      Sanitary Paper           0.L          0.8           0.1         1.0       Basic consumer products
Hima Cement Ltd.                          Public       Cement                   5.0          3.5           3.8        12.3       Key construction material
East Africa Glass Works                   Joint        Glass                   17.4          1.3           2.1        20.8       Input to other industries
Kakira Soap Works                         Joint        Soap                     7.2          3.6           5.0        15.8       Basic consumer product
Bothers Soap Industry                     Private      Soap                     0.1          0.8           0.1         1.0       Basic consumer product
United Carbide Ltd.                       Private      Dry Batteries            2.1          1.6           0.4         4.1       Important consumer product
Associated Battery Manufacturers          Private      Motor Batteries          0.1          1.0           0.4         1.5       Important consumer product
Steel Manufacturers of East Africa        Joint        Steel                    8.0          5.0           8.1        21.1       Basic construction material
UGMA Engineering                          Joint        Foundry & Workshop       2.7          7.6           1.8        12.1       Key engineering repair facility
East Africa Steel Products                Public       Pipes                    1.7          0.7           0.7         3.1       Basic construction material                   >
Tumpeco                                   Public       Beds                     0.7          1.1           0.1         1.9       Basic consumer product                        D
Sembale Steel Mills                       Private      Wire/Nails               1.0          1.3           0.3         2.6       Key construction material                      X
Tororo Steel Works Ltd.                   Public       Iron Sheets              0.6          1.5             -         2.1       Key construction material
62.2         54.3          35.6       152.1
EAPID
April 1982                 1/  2 years spare parts, technical assistance, civil works and vehicles



- 49 -
Annex 13
UGANDA INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT
SUMMARY SHEET OF SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES FOR REHABILITATION
Rehabilitation Requirements
No.                                                          Machinery & Equipment              6 Months Imported Raw Materials
of                                                                                                       and S are Parts
Units            Sector/Activity                UCB Loan    Foreign Exch.
Balance         US$              Local        Foreign Exch.         Percentage
_____   _______                             30/6/81      Equivalent        Currency          Only US$            Imported
1     Art Work                                  150,000               -               -           10,000             25-40%
14     Bricks and Tiles                        2,000,000      3,970,000    24,000,000             347,000              5-10%
2     Animal and Poultry Feed                          -        220,000               -           62,000               5-8%
5     Garments and Textiles                   1,846,000         395,000               -          500,000             10-15%
12     Soaps and Oils                                   -     4,460,000                -        4,190,000             70-80%
21     Flour Mills (Maize Meal)                   99,120      2,510,000                _          304,900                 5%
14     Jaggery and Sugar                       2,726,000     14,110,000       6,000,000           722,000              5-15%
19     Engineering W/S and Foundry                77,000       1,720,000               -        1,122,000             40-80%
4     Saw Mills                                        -        570,000               -           41,000                 5%
7     Bakery and Confectionary                         -     1,800,000                -          425,000             80-85%
14     Carpentry Shops                           190,000         935,000               -          145,000             10-25%
1     Drugs and Cosmetics                       400,000          10,000               -           60,000             60-90%
2     Cotton Matresses                           65,000          10,000               -                 -                5%
4     Printing Press                                   -        295,000        300,000           184,000              5-10%
4     Cement Products                                  -        495,000               -           59,000                 5%
6     Leather Tanning & Shoe Making             187,000      3,500,000       5,000,000           600,000             40-60%
4     Farm Implements                                  -        930,000               -          320,000             60-90%
3     Lime                                             -        620,000               -           62,000                 7%
3     G/Nut/Peanut Processing                          -        370,000               -           37,000                15%
2     Citrus Juice Processing                          -        200,000               -           22,000                15%
1     Paper Products                                   -         30,000               -            3,000                 6%
3     Wire and Roofing Nails                  2,000,000         550,000               -        3,600,000               100%
1     Suitcase Manufacturing                           -       200,000                -           60,000             20-60%
1     Treated Fencing Posts                           -          50,000               -           70,000                 7%
I     Honey Processing & Candle Mfg.                  -          60,000              0             6,000              5-10%
1     Cow Horn Products                               -          10,000              0            10,000                 7%
1     Tissue Papers                                    -        150,000               0          200,000               100%
1     Beverages                                        -       200,000                -           80,000                20%
1     Photography                                      -       280,000   _                        80,000               100%
152                                             9,740,120    38,650,000    35,650,000           13,221,000
EAPID
April 1982



- 50 -
Annex 14
UGANDA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Firm to assist UDB in Project Evaluation
A. Introduction
1.          The Uganda Development Bank is to receive US$30 million from IDA,
and possible more funds from Co-financiers, to finance the capital investment
required for the rehabilitation of selected priority industrial projects in
Uganda. The projects to be financed will be selected from the attached short
list of 25 on the basis of thorough appraisal of their technical, financial,
economic and commercial feasibility and viability. To carry out these apprai-
sals, it is considered desirable for UDB to have assistance from an experienced
consulting firm capable of providing the technical expertise for appraising the
types of projects envisaged. This consulting firm will be selected on the basis
of competition, and the cost of their services, both foreign and local, will be
financed from funds available under an IDA technical assistance credit to the
Government of Uganda.
B. Scope of Assignment
2.          It is envisaged that the consulting firm will actually be involved
in appraisal of about 10 projects, in conjunction with appraisal teams from UDB.
The assignment will therefore take about 12 to i8 months, starting from about
August 1982, to complete. The scope of work may differ from project to project,
and will be agreed with UDB for each project before work commences. Reporting
arrangements for work done on each project will be similarly agreed with UDB
before work commences. In general however, it is envisaged that the consulting
firm's tasks will be in the technical, financial and economic areas.
I. Technical/Engineering
(i) Determination and review of the investments in plant,
machinery, equipment, spare parts, and transport
facilities that are needed to restore the technical
capacity of the project to produce efficiently.
(ii) Determination and review of sources of procurement
and other procurement arrangements for these items.
(iii) Determination and review of detailed cost estimates
for the items to be procured.
(iv) Determination and review of implementation arrangements
for the proposed investment.
(v) Review of the competence of technical and engineering
personnel available for running project once rehabi-
litated, and proposing measures to provide adequate
technical management where needed.



- 51 -
Annex 14
Page 2
(iv) Determination and review of sources of raw materials, for
optimum operation of project after rehabilitation.
II.  Financial
(i) Assisting in the assessment of the financial condition
of enterprises by reviewing their assets and liabilities,
asset revaluation reports, and inventories of debt.
(ii) Making proposals for financial restructuring of these
enterprises. Options to be examined will include liqui-
dation and reincorporation of entities; recapitalization;
and debt rescheduling and/or cancellation.
(iii) Assisting in preparation of financial projections of
enterprises based on the proposed rehabilitation invest-
ments, assessing financial risks and debt servicing
capabilities of enterprises.
(iv) Assisting in determining the financial return on these
investments.
III.  Economic
(i) Assisting in determining comparative import prices of
items to be manufactured by rehabilitated projects.
(ii) Assisting in estimating foreign exchange to be earned
or saved as a result of production by rehabilitated
projects.
EAPID
April 1982



- 52 -
Annex 15
UGANDA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Projected Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA FY and Quarter                    Cumulative Disbursements in $ Millions
UDB            UCB            Total
1983
October - December                       0.30           0.05             0.35
January - March                          1.12           0.18             1.30
April - June                             1.95           0.31             2.26
1984
July - September                         2.77           0.44             3.21
October - December                       3.60           0.60             4.20
January - March                          6.07            1.02            7.09
April - June                             8.55           1.44             9.99
1985
July - September                        11.01            1.86           12.87
October - December                      13.50           2.30            18.80
January - March                         15.75           2.76            18.51
April - June                            18.00           3.22            21.22
1986
July - September                        20.25           3.68            23.93
October - December                      22.50           4.15            26.65
January - March                         23.55           4.36            27.91
April - June                            24.60           4.57            29.17
1987
July - September                        25.50           4.78            30.28
October - December                      26.70           5.00            31.70
January - March                         27.52           5.00            32.52
April - June                            28.35           5.00            33.35
1988
July - September                        29.17           5.00            34.17
October - December                      30.00           5.00           35.00
EAPID
April 1982



- 53 -
Annex 16
UGANDA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents in Projects File
A. General Reports on the Sectors
A.1     Republic of Uganda:  Proposals for the reactivation of the
industrial sector: March 1981.
A.2     Republic of Uganda:  Draft Ten year plan.
A.3     Commonwealth Secretariat:  The rehabilitation of the Economy
of Uganda. In two volumes. 1979.
B. General Information on the Intermediaries
B.1     UDB:  Information on organization structure, staff, policies,
procedures, decree and bye-laws.
B.2     UDB:  Information on operations and annual accounts.  1973-1979.
B.3     UDB:  Assumptions relating to Projections.
B.4     UDB:  UNDP project document for technical assistance to UDB.
B.5     UCB:  Information on Act, organization, structure, staff,
policies, procedures, and accounts for 1976-1980.
B.6     UCB:  Evaluation report of Consultant, September 1981.
C. General Reports on the Project
C.1     Profiles of Sample list of 25 medium and large scale industries:
December 1980.
C.2     Report on technical/engineering evaluation of selected manufac-
turing firms: UNIDO - August 1981.
EAPID
April 1982



