Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3290-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 28, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 2, 1982)
US$1.00       = USh 85.40
USh 1.00      = US$ 0.0117
USh I million = US$11,710
(From October 1975 to May 1981, the Ugandan shilling was tied to the I4F's
Special Drawing Right (SDR 1.00 = USh 9.66).   In June 1981, the Ugandan
shilling wjas devalued by about 90%; since then it has been floating.  As a
result, the US$/USh exchange rate is now subject to change.)
ACROYNYMS
EAC - East African Community
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GOU  - Government of Uganda
,PED - Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
UCB - Uganda Commercial Bank
UDB - Uganda Development Bank
FISCAL YEARS
Government                 July 1 - June 30
Uganda Development Bank   January 1 - December 31
Uganda Commercial Bank    October 1 - September 30



i-                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Uganda
*        Beneficiaries:           Uganda Development  Bank (UDB) and Uganda Commercial
Bank (UCB).
Amount:                 SDR 31.5 million (US$35 million equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard.
Relending Terms:         (a) US$30 million equivalent to UDB:
Up to US$10 million as equity and the balance for a
maximum of 15 years at 6.5% p.a. interest.
(b) US$5 million equivalent to UCB:
Up to US$1.25 million as equity and the balance for
10 years at 6.5% p.a. interest.
(c) UDB and UCB to Subborrowers:
Maturities of up to 15 years and 10 years, respec-
tively, for UDB and UCB subborrowers, including
grace periods of up to 4 years, at 14% annual inter-
est.  The Government would carry the exchange risk
against a charge of 1% per annum to be paid by the
subborrowers.
Project Description:   The project would consist of two lines of credit, of
US$30 million equivalent to be channelled through
UDB and of US$5 million equivalent to be channelled
through UCB, to finance capital expenditures for the
replacement of obsolete or broken-down plant, machi-
nery, tools and other equipment of industrial enter-
prises in the public, joint, and private sectors.
This would include:  costs of installation and com-
missioning; up to two years stock of spare parts for
*                                 plant  and  machinery;  trucks  and  other  transport
equipment; repairs of existing structures and civil
works; costs of key expatriate management staff for
project operation up to two years after rehabilita-
tion; and up to six months requirements of imported
raw materials for fully utilizing rehabilitated
equipment. The risks of the project are those norm-
ally associated with industrial finance projects of
this type in a country with unsettled economic con-
ditions, deficiencies in infrastructural services,
weaknesses in Government administration, and most
importantly an extreme scarcity of foreign exchange
resources.  The project, together with the proposed
second reconstruction program, would assist in
stabilizing economic conditions and generating for-
eign exchange on a continuing basis.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
… --   US$ million------
IDA Fiscal Year:      FY83       FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87     FY88
Annual:          2.26       7.73    11.23      7.95      4.18      1.65
Cumulative:      2.26       9.99    21.22    29.17    33.35    35.00
Rate of Return:          Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:       No. 3782-UG of April 20, 1982.



- 1 -
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR AN INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of SDR 31.5 million (US$35 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Uganda on standard IDA terms for an industrial rehabilitation project in
Uganda. The Government would channel US$30 million of the proceeds of the
credit to the Uganda Development Bank (UDB) (up to US$10 million as equity
and the balance for a maximum of 15 years at 6.5% per annum interest) and
the remaining US$5 million to the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) (up to
US$1.25 million as equity and the balance for 10 years at 6.5% per annum
interest). The Government would bear the exchange risk. UDB and UCB would
on-lend the funds to medium- and large-scale industries and to small-scale
enterprises,  respectively,  with appropriate maturities (depending  on the
subproject) and at 14% per annum interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in August 1981 and its report,
entitled Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 3773-UG), dated
March 31, 1982, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.         Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages: a favorable climate (with two rainy seasons in most parts of
the country); fertile soils; a well-established indigenous smallholder sec-
tor producing a widening range of export crops (coffee, cotton, tea, and
tobacco) and an ample domestic food supply; a small industrial sector con-
tributing exports of textiles and copper; a well-developed transport infra-
structure; an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity; and one of the most
*          advanced education systems in East Africa.  Uganda's complement of skilled
and trained manpower was greater than that of either Kenya or Tanzania.
With those two countries it shared well-developed services:  the railways,
ports, airline, posts and telecommunications.  These favorable initial con-
ditions, combined with competent economic management, resulted in a steady
2% per year growth in per capita GDP (1963-70), and an average savings rate
of 13%, which in turn permitted a high level of investment without infla-
tionary pressure.  A balance of payments current account surplus was main-
tained in most years, and central government revenue increased faster than
recurrent expenditure, contributing a significant proportion of development
outlays.
4.         Uganda's political situation was less felicitous.  Long-standing
conflicts between the largest single kingdom (Buganda), the other kingdoms
and the rest of the country continued during the 1960s, and became further
complicated by ideological and social rivalries.   This led to increasing



- 2 -
dependence on the military, and in 1971, a coup by the army brought a mili-
tary regime to power.
5.         From 1971 to 1979 (the year when the military government fell),
the economy declined drastically.   GDP stagnated and per capita  incomes
fell.  Deterioration occurred in almost every sector of the economy.  Sav-
ings and investment, exports and government revenues declined in real
terms. Government and balance of payments deficits increased, arrears were
accumulated and blackmarketing and corruption flourished. Only subsistence
agriculture continued growing in response to both food security needs and
the curtailment of earning opportunities  in the monetized sectors.   The
coffee boom in 1977 provided temporary respite and for a time imports
recovered. But by 1979, the combined impact of the previous years' depre-
dations and the damage and looting during and after the war had reduced the
economy of Uganda to ruins.   Crops were damaged, livestock killed, many
buildings and factories gutted and portable goods of all kinds -- ranging
from school books and office records to tools, equipment and vehicles --
stolen (frequently to be smuggled into neighboring countries).
6.        A Commonwealth team of experts that reviewed the Ugandan economy
in May 1979 recommended a rehabilitation program of administrative and
policy reform supported by the infusion of foreign exchange.   The reforms
proposed  included:   the raising of agricultural producer prices and the
relief of bottlenecks in the transport and marketing systems; the streng-
thening of foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing; a moratorium on
parastatal and cooperative indebtedness to enable banks to advance import
credit while this indebtedness was being studied; and the relaxation of
price controls coupled with either devaluation or a combination of foreign
exchange auctions and higher taxes.
7.        Until 1981, no action was taken on any of these proposals, except
the raising of agricultural producer prices, the value of which was soon
wiped out by inflation.   This failure to undertake policy and administra-
tive reform, coupled with continuing political instability, drought, the
1979 oil shock and world recession led to even more rapid declines in out-
put and incomes from 1979 to 1981 than had occurred previously. Taking the
deteriorating terms of trade into account, per capita income in 1980 was
some 27% below its 1978 level.   Although  there has probably  been some
recovery in 1981, especially in the agricultural sector, average incomes
are still depressed.  Capital productivity is severely constrained by in-
adequate maintenance, a drying-up of raw material and spare parts,supplies,
and the looting of workshops and tools during and after the war.
8.        By 1981,  the estimated volume  of merchandise  imports  was 30%
below the 1978 level and nearly 60% below the 1970 level. This was despite
an increase in official grant and loan disbursements from US$63 million per
year in 1977-78 to over US$200 million per year in 1979-81, an increase in
payment arrears of US$140 million during 1979 and 1980 and a US$100 million
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves.   The main factor responsible  for
this was a 55% deterioration in the terms of trade. Capital flight, though
unquantifiable, was probably substantial and imports may also have been
under-recorded.



9.        Of  the US$400  million  of merchandise  imports  in 1981,  about
US$120 million was for petroleum and about US$60 million was imporced
directly by the Government for security and administration.   In effect,
over 80% of Uganda's merchandise export earnings (US$220 million in 1981)
were absorbed by petroleum and government imports.  For all other imports,
including essential consumer goods, drugs and rehabilitation needs, Uganda
depends on official grants and loans, IMF drawings and commercial credits.
This highlights both the difficulty and the critical importance of foreign
exchange management, in particular the need to scrutinize carefully the
Government's own import requirements.   The Government is taking steps to
improve its procedures for foreign exchange allocation.
10.        Uganda's external debt was inadequately monitored and controlled
during the 1970s, and it is therefore difficult to present clear data. The
World Bank's estimates, based on data from the Uganda Treasury and the Bank
of Uganda, show total external debt outstanding of US$970 million at the
end of 1981, of which US$650 million was disbursed.  IBRD's share of this
was 3.8% while 8.9% was due to IDA. Official development loans account for
less  than two-thirds  of outstanding  debt.   The balance is from private
sources or war-related commitments to Tanzania and Zambia. A large part of
the debt is in arrears:  some US$84 million of debt outstanding at the end
of 1981 was principal arrears.   (Total arrears,  including those on short-
term debt and current payments are estimated at US$144 million at the end
of 1981.)   The debt service ratio was moderately high for a low-income
country, at 17.7% in 1980, but this situation has deteriorated seriously
during 1981, since more than one-quarter of debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1980 fell due during the year. As a result, the debt service
ratio rose to 50% in 1981.  Furthermore, more than one-third of debt out-
standing and disbursed at the end of 1981 is scheduled to be repaid over
the next two years. A meeting of the Paris Club in November 1981 agreed to
reschedule obligations  falling due  in 1981/82.   These,  however,  covered
only about US$12 million, leaving more than US$130 million of principal
repayments still to be paid during 1982.  The rest is owed to non-partici-
pants, with whom the Government is endeavoring to arrange rescheduling on
terms comparable to those being concluded with Paris Club participants.
The Government's Program
11.          The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress.  Second only to this, how-
ever, is the goal of rehabilitating the directly productive sectors, with-
out which, the Government recognizes, there can be no economic development,
nor expanded social services.   The first step towards rehabilitation was
the introduction of a financial program for 1981/82.   The second is to be
an economic recovery program, the preparation of which started in November
1981, and details of which will be submitted to a Consultative Group meet-
ing in May 1982.
12.          In early June 1981, the Government introduced a comprehensive
financial program to stabilize the deteriorating economy and revive produc-
tion by restoring confidence in the currency, eliminating price distortions
and improving fiscal and monetary discipline. In particular:



It devalued the Uganda shilling approximately 90% from USh 7.8 to
around USh 80 to the US dollar (by early 1982, the rate had fal-
len further to around 85).
It removed administered price controls, except for major export
crops, petroleum products and public utility tariffs.  It raised
official producer prices for export crops in June and October
1981 by between 200% and 400%; retail petroleum prices 650% to
1,000% and, in January 1982, it increased tariffs on electriclLy,
water, posts and telecommunications.
It reformed the taxation structure, changing import duties from a
specific to an ad valorem basis and reduced the number of differ-
ent rates of duty.   It merged the Public Sector Investment Con-
tribution with sales tax or import duty, equalized sales taxes on
imports and domestic production and raised effective sales and
excise taxes on a number of revenue-producing items, and conver-
ted some excise duties to an ad valorem basis.
It placed ceilings on the budget deficit,  government borrowing
and domestic credit expansion, while increasing interest rates.
The Government also confirmed its intention of encouraging a "mixed eco-
nomy", by allowing former owners to reclaim their property or claim compen-
sation and by inviting private investment in a number of areas.  The pro-
gram was supported by a 13-month IMF stand-by arrangement for US$135 mil-
lion and by the release of US$70 million of the First IDA Reconstruction
Credit, disbursements of which had been limited to US$25 million following
the change of government in May 1980.  In addition, a number of bilateral
donors announced increased levels of assistance to Uganda before and during
a special meeting of donors in Paris in November 1981.
13.       The system which is now evolving in the wake of these measures is
more market-oriented than before, but still retains important areas of
government control. Foreign exchange allocation, for example, is handled
administratively and the exchange rate is certainly above market-clearing
levels. The Government has, however, continued adjusting both the exchange
rate and other "strategic" prices since June with the aim, in each case, of
reinforcing producers' incentives while maintaining fiscal equilibrium.
14.         The adjustments in agricultural producer prices have, with the
exception of tea, provided a positive return to export production and, by
narrowing price differentials with neighboring countries, reduced the
incentive for smuggling.   However,  the returns from food crop production
remain higher and the increase in export crop production will be limited in
the absence of complementary inputs, incentive goods and improvements in
marketing and processing infrastructure. Preliminary indications are that
the new coffee prices have provoked a substantial increase in supplies to
processors, but that export supply is now constrained by processing capa-
city. The increase in supplies may also result from a movement of pro-
ducers' stocks rather than increased production. For industrial products,
the removal of price controls, combined with the tax changes, has diverted
previous "magendo" profits to the Government and to producers.



-5-
15.        Wages and salaries have increased since June 1981, but are still
low in real terms.   The Government raised the minimum wage by more than
100% in August, but even at its new level, it still only buys the equiva-
lent of about six kilograms of sugar or three bars of soap per month at
prevailing market prices.  Civil service salaries are so low that, despite
subsidized housing and other benefits, officials are forced to pursue other
occupations.    The  removal  of  price  controls  and  privileged  access  to
limited supplies of goods has probably resulted in hardship for certain
groups,  possibly including some poorer ones.   While wage and salary re-
straint are surely necessary, the success of the program will also depend
on its maintaining a minimum standard of living and adequate work incen-
tives.
16.          While there are important areas  in which further  steps are
needed, a decisive start to recovery has now been made. With the exception
of some export crop prices, which will require adjustment, the major policy
changes needed have been made.  Now, the main areas of action are largely
institutional and will necessarily take time to implement.   Moreover, the
Government has responded promptly to the evolving situation by continuing
the process of price adjustment and by initiating a number of institutional
changes  in the key  areas of foreign exchange management,  budgeting  and
planning. The program itself and the Government's evolving policies merit
strong support and encouragement.
Sectoral Priorities
17.          Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels,
especially exports.   This  entails  the highest  priority  initially  being
given to export crop production, to the supporting transport and communica-
tions infrastructure, and to the production of basic consumer goods, build-
ing materials and agricultural requirements by the industrial sector.
Other sectors, especially the social sectors, also require urgent rehabili-
tation.   But in the near future, the rehabilitation of these sectors must
be limited to the extent of their potential contribution in the shorter
term to the recovery process. Improvements in medical services, the repair
of damaged classrooms and the rehabilitation of hazardous urban water sys-
tems, for example, may be expected to provide an important, if unquantifi-
4          able, incentive to producers.
18.        Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing livelihood
to 90% of  the population  and supplying  almost  all Uganda's  exports  Li
recent years.   Ugandan agriculture  is largely  dependent  on small- and
medium-scale peasant farms; no attempt was ever made to encourage expatri-
ate settlements, and even today, large-scale estates are only significant
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, though areas like Karamoja
in the north-east, which are vulnerable to drought and which depend on a
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered serious food shortages
in recent years as a result of low rainfall and insecurity.
19.         The rehabilitation of agriculture is the top priority for Ugan-
da's economic recovery. Coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could all
grow rapidly within the next three years (although the previous peak levels



- 6 -
are not likely to be reached until later in the 1980s).  In addition, food
exports to neighboring countries are a distinct possibility.   The revival
of cotton and other agricultural production would also supply some domestic
industrial needs. The central constraint to recovery is the incentive sys-
tem.  Prices for export crops must be remunerative, the efficiency of the
marketing system must be improved, and payment to farmers must be prompt.
Closely related to this is the supply of inputs, implements, spares for
processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate the production of
surpluses.   These will require more foreign exchange.   A detailed program
for agricultural rehabilitation is being prepared by Bank Group staff in
collaboration with other donors, which will focus on developing an approp-
riate policy and institutional framework for the major export crops as well
as on sectoral financing requirements. Over the longer term, agricultural
services including research and extension will require more attention.
20.       The industrial sector accounted for only about 11% of GDP in the
1960s.  However, it is an important potential contributor to Uganda's re-
covery. It is described in detail in Part III of this report.
21.        Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, dete-
riorated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined
earlier:   the departure of skilled personnel, political interference,  and
inadequate provision of resources for essential functions like mainten-
ance. In addition, the breakup of the East African Community (EAC) in 1977
had a serious effect, especially on Uganda's access to international trade
routes:  as a result, Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and
aircraft and her part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya
and Tanzania.  This both necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda, and
seriously disrupted international traffic movements while increasing their
cost.  Transport was moreover the sector possibly most seriously affected
by the war and the widespread looting which followed.  The vehicle fleet in
particular was decimated.
22.        Rehabilitation of the transport system is a key requirement for
recovery.  Progress has, however, been slow and uneven.  High priority has
been given to imports of road vehicles and railway rolling stock and loco-
motives, but available resources have often not been fully utilized, espe-
cially through over-emphasis on lake ferries, long-haulage trucks (where
rail  would  be  cheaper),  and  larger  aircraft  for  international  routes.
Almost all Uganda's external trade passes through Kenya, so that coopera-
tion between the two countries remains vital for Uganda. This has improved
of late; Kenya has made a loan to Uganda to help clear goods at Mombasa
port, has rented rolling stock to Uganda and has increased the number of
trains available to Uganda to five per week.  A high priority would be to
maximize the use of the railway for international trade, and for some
internal routes also. This involves further improving the coordination of
railway operations with Kenya, reducing dependence on expensive truck
transportation, improving track maintenance and safety, and repairing loco-
motives and rolling stock.



-7-
Assistance Needs
23.          If recovery is to start in 1982, Uganda's merchandise  imports
must rise at least one-third over 1981 levels, to about US$540 million in
current prices, with most of the increase allocated for inputs and spare
parts for agriculture, industry and transport, and for basic consumer
goods.   From 1983-85, imports are  expected  to increase  less rapidly, by
about 6% per year, since there appears to be ample scope for reestablishing
domestic supply sources and reducing the import content of production.  If
these higher import levels can be financed and if progress continues on the
economic management and institutional issues discussed earlier, GDP could
grow at 6-7% per annum on average during 1982-85, with monetary agriculture
and industry as the leading sectors.
24.         The other major claim on available foreign exchange is debt ser-
vice.   After allowing for debt relief agreed  at the November Paris Club
meeting, principal repayments will total US$135 million in 1982 and US$90
million in 1983.  Invisibles may be expected to be a net drain on foreign
exchange during the 1980s, even if there is some revival in tourism.
Uganda also should provide for a reduction in arrears and some buildup of
external  reserves.   The  total  financing  requirement --  for merchandise
imports, invisibles and reserve accumulation -- is expected to be US$0.8
billion in 1982, rising to US$1.1 billion by 1985.
25.        Exports can be expected to make an important contribution towards
meeting this requirement.  For the next two to three years at least, agri-
cultural exports will be the key to recovery. Provided prices are remuner-
ative, marketing becomes more efficient and the supply of agricultural
inputs and consumer goods improves, merchandise exports could grow by about
14% per year on average from 1982-85. Although high rates of growth in all
of the main agricultural exports (coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco) can be
expected, coffee will remain dominant for some years.   Beyond 1985, the
prospects for other exports, including maize, groundnuts, animal feed,
hides and skins, copper, cobalt and cotton textiles are promising, provided
the exchange rate is maintained at an appropriate level.
26.        From 1982-84, some US$530-580 million per year over and above ex-
port earnings will be needed to meet requirements.  If official grant and
loan commitments are maintained  in real terms and disbursements and debt
service follow a normal pattern, these could provide some US$270 million
per year on average.   A further US$100 million  per year could be avail-
able from the IMF, if Uganda becomes eligible for further resources under
future stand-by arrangements.1   This leaves about US$180 million per year
over the next three years to be met from new resources.
27.        Uganda will not be able to finance this gap on commercial terms.
If the amount needed were borrowed at 11.6% for nine years, with four years
of grace (terms far better than those available on the market at present),
Uganda's debt service ratio,including IMF obligations would rise from 49%
in 1982 to 61% in 1985, and reach 96% by 1990. Some short-term non-conces-
sional borrowing may prove unavoidable, given the bunching of principal
repayments, but care must be taken to ensure that the resulting debt burden
1/   The IMF expects to enter discussions of a further stand-by arrangement
for 1982-83 before the beginning of the next fiscal year.



- 8 -
is manageable.   Without  additional external financing,  GDP growth would
have to be cut to levels that would allow no significant recovery in per
capita terms.  Uganda will therefore need additional financing on conces-
sional terms to achieve its much-needed  recovery.   This financinr  wil1
moreover, have to be fast-disbursing, in the form of balance of payments
support or projects which focus on immediate and urgent requirements.  New
investment for the next three years and possibly longer must be limited to
urgent rehabilitation needs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
28.        Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million  for hydroelectric  power development  in 1961.   Between 1967 and
1971, Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for pro-
jects in education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranch-
ing).  In addition, Uganda has benefitted from 10 loans totalling US$244.8
million which have been extended for the development of the common services
and the East African Development Bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda through their association in the former East African Community
(EAC). Annex II contains summary statements and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.  IFC's first investment in Uganda, in a textile company,
was sold to the Government in 1970.  The second, to help finance two lodges
in the national parks was cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC
is actively considering the role it could play in rehabilitation as well as
in longer-term development.
29.        There was a hiatus in Bank Group operations from 1971 until Feb-
ruary 1980, when a Reconstruction Credit of US$72.5 million (including a
participation of US$17.5 million by the Kingdom of the Netherlands) and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$20.0 million were approved (Credit Nos.
983/983-1-UG and 54-UG).   The Association is also acting as Administrator
of a Can$3.0 million grant from the Government of Canada and of a US$5.0
million program loan from the OPEC Fund for reconstruction.   The Recon-
struction Credit originally experienced delays and disbursements were
slow.   Following the change of government in May 1980, the Bank Group and
the Government agreed to limit temporarily withdrawals of the Credit to an
amount not exceeding US$25.0 million equivalent and to restrict the items
to a specific list of activities:   inter alia for coffee and tea rehabili-
tation, agricultural tools, and education and telecommunication equipment.
The remaining amount of the Credit was made available to the Government in
June 1981, after the adoption of the required policy measures in a finan-
cial program also supported by the IMF.  By the end of February 1982 about
US$35 million had been disbursed, and an additional US$29 million had been
committed.   The Government has allocated the balance to prospective end-
users and disbursements are expected to accelerate further.   In addition,
the Bank Group has provided credits totalling US$21.0 million (through a
Technical Assistance Credit, No. 1077-UG, a Water Supply Engineering Cre-
dit, No. 1110-UG and a Phosphate Engineering Credit approved on April 13,
1982 and still to be signed) to finance the studies needed to begin build-
ing a project pipeline.   Disbursements have begun under the Water Supply
Engineering Credit.   To date,  only four sub-projects have been approved
under the Technical Assistance Credit because of start-up administrative



- 9 -
problems within the M4inistry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED).
However, MPED is now being strengthened through the UNDP-financed, Bank
Group executed Planning Assistance Project.   There is now a pipeline of
further sub-projects submitted or to be submitted shortly for Bank Group
advice and approval; thus commitments and disbursements are expected to
accelerate soon. The Bank Group also administers an Agricultural Rehabili-
tation Program of US$20.0 million equivalent financed by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development. A second reconstruction credit has been
prepared and is being proposed separately.   In the immediate future, Bank
Group operations will have to remain focussed on rehabilitation projects.
The agricultural rehabilitation program, mentioned in paragraph 19 above,
is expected to form the basis for a major lending operation during the next
fiscal year.  Rehabilitation projects are also under preparation for roads
(with emphasis on maintenance facilities), and education (with emphasis on
non-salary recurrent needs like textbooks), while identification of rehabi-
litation needs in telecommunications and railways is expected in the coming
months.
30.        The developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364).  One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments also commented on the Mediator's proposals for the
three Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and
decided to commence negotiations based on the Mediator's proposals.  They
started on December 14, 1981 in Arusha and continued in April in Jinja.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
31.        The industrial sector accounted for only about 11% of GDP in the
1960s. In 1971, probably the last year of normal activity, Uganda's manu-
facturing sector comprised only some 970 establishments employing ten or
more people (with recorded wage employment totalling about 55,000 and con-
suming 277 million kilowatt hours of electricity)  and a large number of
cottage industries and small workshops.  However, it supplied the domestic
market with basic goods like edible oil, soap, paper and cement and pro-
*          duced small exportable surpluses of textiles and copper.   By 1980, indus-
trial value-added had fallen to about one-third of its previous level, or
some 5% of GDP. Many industrial enterprises have closed down while others
are operating at low levels of capacity utilization. There has been little
new investment over the past decade; indeed, in recent years, there is evi-
dence of disinvestment in many areas.
32.         As a result,  the structure of industry has changed little over
the last decade.   Some capacity (and hence recovery potential) exists in
the production of basic consumer goods, wood products, building materials,
simple engineering goods,  textiles and chemicals.   These  industries  are
characteristically inward-oriented, requiring relatively little skilled



- 10 -
labor (except for machine maintenance) and moderate capital investment.
There are few intermediate and capital goods industries and, by contrast
with many other African countries, virtually no assembly industries.
Existing industries frequently depend on imported inputs.   Smaller enter-
prises are largely producers of light consumer goods or services.  Typical
small industry activities include tailoring shops, "jaggery' mills, maize
mills, furniture shops and auto repair garages. The main structural change
in industry over the past decade has been the shift of ownership from the
private to the public sector, a result of the nationalization measures of
the early 1970s, the exodus of Asians, and the subsequent acquisition of
their enterprises.  As a result, almost all medium- and large-scale indus-
tries now either are publicly owned or have significant public participa-
tion.
33.         The industrial sector is an important potential contributor to
Uganda's recovery.  Virtually all its products, especially basic consumer
goods and building materials, will be in strong demand, and in most cases,
can be produced more cheaply than imports.  The most obvious and generally
binding constraint on recovery is foreign exchange for raw materials, spare
parts and capital goods to replace outdated and damaged plants. This con-
straint is unlikely to be relieved to any significant extent within the
next two years.  The Government must therefore set clearer priorities for
foreign exchange allocation, as well as improving its administration.  In
the context of the proposed Second Reconstruction Credit, the Government
will introduce a comprehensive foreign exchange budget for the 1982/83 fis-
cal year. It has also developed criteria for allocation of the proceeds of
that credit which give priority to the earning or saving of foreign ex-
change.   The proposed industrial rehabilitation project would also make
earning or saving of foreign exchange a selection criterion for subprojects
(paragraph 53 below).
34.         Other constraints, although for the most part less critical in
the short term,  should receive urgent attention.   First,  the supply of
domestically-produced inputs like cotton, hides and skins have suffered
along with the decline in agricultural exports.  A start is being made on
reviewing agricultural cash crop production, with primary emphasis on
exports  of coffee,  cotton,  tea and  tobacco.   Producer prices have been
increased and, under the proposed second reconstruction credit, understand-
ings have been reached about the general direction pricing and marketing
policy will take.  Successful agricultural rehabilitation will be a basic
requirement for any significant improvement in industrial performance.   A
second constraint is the supply of skilled staff.  Here it will be neces-
sary to depend for some time on technical assistance, funded under aid pro-
grams.   In the longer term, a solution can also be expected through im-
provement in the morale of qualified Ugandans already in place and the
return of Ugandans from overseas as country conditions improve.
35.         A third set of constraints relates to the disorganization and
mismanagement of the parastatal organizations.   Updating the accounts and
audits of certain priority parastatal organizations is being undertaken in
the context of the proposed second reconstruction credit.   A Government
decision on the reorganization of UDr, with regard to its subsidiaries is
also expected soon.  Government policy in this area is to reduce the size



- 11 -
of the public sector by returning some abandoned or nationalized properties
to their former owners and by selling others to new private investors, and
to improve the management of those that remain in the public sector.
Legislation permitting the return of properties is due to be brought before
parliament shortly.
36.       Fourth, many industries face severe financial problems which stem
from having had to operate at low capacity and sustain losses for several
years and from clear legal ownership not having been established in many
cases. After the June 1981 devaluation, credit needs have increased sub-
stantially.  These problems are being addressed partly by the updating of
parastatal accounts and eventual financial restructuring, but some direct
Government support through measures  such as budgetary appropriations and
tax deferrment will doubtless be needed on a selective basis until longer
term solutions are found.   Finally,  infrastructural  services, especially
transport bottlenecks, have received some attention already from Govern-
ment, especially the procurement of road vehicles and railway rolling
stock. Further efforts will be needed if supply problems for industries
are to improve, especially:   improved cooperation with Kenya, to maximize
the use of the railway, and an improved spare parts supply for road vehi-
cles.
37.         The broad priorities which the Government has set for industry
are the production of basic consumer goods, inputs to the agricultural sec-
tor and construction materials.  Capacity to produce many of these exists
and its utilization can be increased at costs less than those of importing
finished products.   For the next two to three years, only rehabilitation
and very stringently justified new investment will be possible, given for-
eign exchange  and management  constraints.   The specific projects  which
would meet these criteria and accord with these priorities have been iden-
tified under  the Government's  two-year economic recovery program.   They
include the sub-projects that would be eligible for financing under the
proposed project.  Policies on such issues as tariff protection, investment
and export incentives and employment are by and large not relevant to the
immediate task of rehabilitation, but will in due course have to be addres-
sed.
38.       The financial system comprises the Bank of Uganda, seven commer-
*          cial banks, four other credit institutions,  two development banks, a post
office savings bank and several insurance companies.   As described below
(paragraph 50), the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) is the largest of the
seven commercial banks and is wholly government-owned.    Four of the other
six have minority government participation, one (the Libya Arab Bank) has
been taken over by the Government since liberation, and Government plays an
important role in the direction of the sixth, the Cooperative Bank. During
the last decade, commercial banking coverage has declined sharply, in line
with the general decline in the monetary sector.  Whereas Uganda had 290
bank branches in 1970, there are now about 110.
39.        Despite negative real interest rates, the commercial banking sy-
stem has remained remarkably liquid in recent years. Non-Government demand
for commercial credit was light, and a number of banks even decided to stop
accepting time deposits.  This paradoxical situation probably reflects the



- 12 -
virtual collapse of the monetary sector, the importance of "magendo" trans-
actions (usually conducted on a barter or cash basis), the general shortage
of goods and, to some extent, the creditworthiness problems of most private
and parastatal companies. Since June 1981, the demand for credit is risiag
again and bank liquidity is probably  falling.   Moreover,  the problem of
asset revaluation following the devaluation is probably constraining effec-
tive credit demand. Until accounts can be brought up to date or statements
of affairs prepared, this can only be resolved by Government support,
through guarantees, tax deferment or capital injections.  Given the cel-
ings on domestic credit and credit to the Government under the IMF program,
this must be done selectively and with limits placed on Government risks.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation and Objectives
40.          The proposed project has been formulated  to redress the con-
straints on the industrial sector in Uganda and at the same time to esta-
blish quickly an effective framework for technical and financial assistance
to industry. While shortages of imported raw materials and spare parts are
the major constraints to industrial production in the short term, many
enterprises, in order to be able to produce efficiently and to expand pro-
duction, need to replace obsolete or broken-down plant, machinery, tools,
and other equipment. Financing such replacement investments requires for-
eign exchange resources, presently not available, commensurate with prior-
ity needs, preferably on terms to local financing institutions that would
permit on-lending on a medium- and long-term basis.  The project, essenti-
ally two lines of credit to be channelled through the Uganda Development
Bank and the Uganda Commercial Bank, would complement the on-going Techni-
cal Assistance Credit and the proposed Second Reconstruction Credit.
Expenditures eligible for financing will include: replacement of obsolete,
worn-out or damaged equipment, balancing equipment, expansion equipment in
special cases, and the cost of installation and commissioning; up to two
years stock of spare parts for plant and machinery; trucks and other trans-
port equipment; repairs of existing structures and civil works; costs of
key expatriate management staff for project operation up to two years after
rehabilitation; and up to six months requirements of imported raw materials
for fully utilizing rehabilitated equipment.
41.        The proposed project was appraised in September 1981.  A report
entitled  "UGANDA  - Industrial Rehabilitation Project - Staff Appraisal
Report", dated April 20, 1982, Report No. 3782-UG, is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.  A supplementary Project Data Sheet
is attached as Annex III.  Negotiations were held in Washington in April
1982.   The Borrower as well as the Uganda Development Bank and the Uganda
Commercial Bank were represented by a delegation headed by Ambassador
E. R. Kamuntu.



- 13 -
The Uganda Development Bank (UDB)
42.          The main component of the project, a US$30 million equivalent
line of credit to finance capital investment necessary to rehabilitate
selected medium- and large-scale2 industrial projects in Uganda, would be
implemented by UDB.  UDB, set up in 1972, is Uganda's most important devel-
opment bank.  It is empowered to assist in the development of agriculture,
industry, tourism, housing, and commerce; to provide assistance in the form
of short-, medium-, and long-term loans, equity and other share invest-
ments, guarantees, and managerial and technical advice; and to administer a
credit guarantee fund, consisting of contributions from the government and
*         from banks, for assisting marginal borrowers in raising funds from banks
and credit institutions.   Due to political developments in the country in
the early 1970's, UDB started off by providing short-term commercial credit
to trading and  small manufacturing  businesses.   However,  11DB has since
taken on some of its originally envisaged functions, and the Government now
intends to build UDB into its major development bank with a substantial
role in investment financing in key sectors. Lending to commerce and small
industry will therefore be phased out in favor of providing medium- and
long-term development financing to commercial agriculture, medium and large
industries, transport, and tourism.
43.       UDB is wholly owned by the Government.  Currently, its authorized
capital is USh 500 million, of which USh 200 million have been paid in.
Because of the June 1981 currency float and devaluation, an increase of
UDB's authorized capital to USh 1.5 billion is required within the next
year to enable it to borrow the amounts it will need to undertake lending
activities at a level commensurate with its assigned role as Uganda's main
development bank. The Government would finalize the process, already under
way, to increase UDB's authorized share capital to at least USh 1.5 billion
by June 30, 1983 (Section 4.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
The Government would also increase UDB's paid-in capital by USh 300 million
from its own resources by June 30, 1985 in annual installments of USh 100
million (Section 4.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).   In addi-
tion, the Government would, with the Association's consent, channel the
initial disbursements from the UDB project component, up to a total of
US$10 million equivalent, to UDB in the form of further capital payments
(Section 3.01(b)(i) of the Development Credit Agreement), so that UDB's
U          paid-in capital would reach UShl.3 billion by mid-1985.
44.       UDB's Board is appointed by the Minister of Finance.  It consists
of up to seven members, including the Governor of the Central Bank and the
Secretary of the Treasury as ex-officio members.   The current Board was
appointed in September 1981.   The individual members have  the requisite
background to contribute effectively to the formulation of UDB's strategy
2/   While large for Uganda, these enterprises are of modest size by inter-
national standards.



- 14 -
and provide adequate guidance on its operations.   A General Manager, also
appointed by the Minister of Finance, is the effective chief executive of
UDB. UDB has a total of 40 professional staff (including the General Mana-
ger and two expatriate advisors) who are organized in three departments and
an internal audit division.  While fully sufficient for the current level
of UDB's operations, the staff needs strengthening in quantity and quality
to be able to carry out UDB's increasing responsiblities, especially in
industry and agriculture, where UDB is to be utilized as a channel for
expected foreign lines of credits for rehabilitation purposes.  Financial
assistance for recruiting expatriate staff is being extended to UDB from
the European Economic Community, the United Nations Development Program,
and under the Association's Technical Assistance Project.                                     6
45.       UDB's investment and financial policies are stated in its by-laws
and in its policy statement, which has recently been revised and will not
be amended without the consent of the Association (Section 2.07 of the UDB
Project Agreement).   These documents are fully appropriate for a develop-
ment bank.  UDB also has well established and adequate procedures for pro-
cessing projects. However, its experience in appraising large scale indus-
try projects has not yet been extensive because of the small number of such
projects that have been undertaken in Uganda since UDB's inception. There-
fore, it is expected that UDB would require some guidance and assistance,
especially in technical and economic evaluation, for larger sub-projects;
these would be provided by consultants and by the Association in the frame-
work of subproject reviews and regular supervision visits.   It is further
expected that, with improvements in the security situation and in trans-
port, UDB will soon again be in a position to provide its supervision ser-
vice to clients beyond the area around Kampala.
46.       UDB's lending rates, like those for other institutions in Uganda,
are set by the Central Bank.   As part of the government's stabilization
program agreed with the International Monetary Fund, they were increased
recently to 13% per annum for agriculture, 14% for industry, and 15% for
commerce.   In addition,  UDB charges a 1% front-end fee.   Maturities  of
UDB's loans range from three months  to 15 years.   For foreign lines of
credit,  the Government assumes the foreign exchange risk.   While subbor-
rowers have not been charged for this service in the past, beneficiaries of
the proceeds of the proposed credit would have to pay a 1% per annum fee.
47.        Through 1980, UDB had committed 1,839 loans totalling about USh
366 million.   It has not approved any equity investments.  Disbursements
have historically been almost as large as commitments.   In the 1978-1980
period, 57% of all commitments (by value) were for industry and transport,
about 28% for agriculture, and 15% for trade and commerce.  As of June 30,
1981, UDB's portfolio consisted of 1,071 loans with a value of about USh
126 million, all in local currency. In view of Uganda's economic situation
during  the last decade,  it is not surprising that the quality of UDB's
portfolio is poor. In mid-1981, 63% of UDB's projects by number and 60% of
outstanding loans by value were affected by arrears of more than three
months. In addition to the arrears, UDB has written off USh 32.3 million,
relating to 597 projects, as bad debts. Adequate provisions have been made
in UDB's accounts for December 1980 against these bad loans.



- 15 -
48.        Until 1981, UDB's only borrowing was a USh 9 million Saudi Ara-
bian loan channelled through the government in local currency.   In 1981,
UDB obtained  three new lines of credit with foreign exchange resources.
Two were from the African Development Bank, of USh 970 million equival-nt
each, for industrial rehabilitation and for agricultural credit. The Euro-
pean Economic Community provided USh 145 million for lending to medium- and
small-scale industry on a revolving basis. UDB has already fully committed
these lines of credit.   UDB's operations plan for the three-year period
1982-84 calls for commitments of USh 5,677 million in foreign exchange and
USh 673 million in local currency.   The proposed credit would finance 54%
of UDB's projected foreign exchange resource gap over the three year period
1982-1984. UDB has also started discussions with the OPEC Special Fund and
the European Investment Bank and expects that these will result in coverage
of another 36% of the resource gap.   Further sources of foreign exchange
remain to be identified but may include another loan from the African
Development Bank.
49.        Financial projections for UDB show a small after-tax profit for
1983 after an expected substantial loss in 1982. From 1984, profits should
increase steadily and reach USh 147 million, or an adequate 2.3% on average
total assets and 10.8% on average net worth, by 1986.   Because of the de-
parture of these projections from UDB's historic financial results (namely
losses, albeit small, in every year except 1980), they are subject to an
unusually large range of variation.   To ensure profitability in this high
risk situation, UDB needs unusually large spreads on its onlending; hence
the 7-1/2% spread proposed for the portion of the proposed credit to be
onlent  (paragraph 57 below).   UDB's projected  debt  service  coverage of
about 1.5 is adequate.  UDB's debt/equity ratio is expected to range from
2.8:1 to 3.7:1 for the five years 1982 to 1986.  It will not be permitted
to exceed 4:1 (Section 3.03 of the UDB Project Agreement).
The Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB)
50.        UCB would be responsible for implementing the project component
aimed at the rehabilitation of small industries, i.e. projects whose capi-
tal cost (excluding land) does not exceed USh 25 million equivalent after
rehabilitation.  UCB was established in 1965.  It has grown steadily since
then despite the difficult environment in Uganda in the 1970's, and is now
the predominant banking institution in the country.  As of September 1981,
it had about USh 11.4 billion in total assets, 2,570 employees and 54 bran-
ches located throughout the country.   It is wholly owned by the Govern-
ment. The present authorized capital is USh 300 million, of which USh 130
million is paid in. As this level of capitalization is too low in the
longer term, the Government would increase UCB's authorized share capital
to at least USh 1 billion by June 30, 1983 (Section 4.01(a) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).   The Government would also incrase UCB's paid-in
capital by USh 170 million from its own resources by June 30, 1985 in annu-
al installments (Section 4.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement),
which would be adequate to make paid-in capital commensurate with UCB's
expected growth in assets and liabilities.   In addition,  the Government
would, with the Association's consent, channel the initial disbursements
from the UCB project component, up to a total of US$1.25 million equiva-
lent, to UCB in the form of further paid-in capital (Section 3.01(c)(i)



- 16 -
of  the Development Credit Agreement).   UCB's role is largely that of a
commercial bank.  In addition to its general commercial banking activities,
UCB engages in small scale industrial and agricultural term lending and in
the administration, on a managed funds basis, of several governme'-n-
development funds.
51.        UCB is managed by a nine member Board of Directors headed by the
chief executive officer.  With the present volume of business, UCB is ade-
quately staffed.  It has its own training school for staff development.  A
special, adequately staffed small industry unit within its credit division
will be responsible for the proposed line of credit. As a commercial bank,
UCB follows the general policy that all advances be adequately backed by
sound security.   It also has specific lending guidelines tailored to the
features of each sector and subsector.  For small scale industry lending, a
special policy statement, acceptable to the Association, has been prepared;
it would not be amended without the Association's consent (Section 2.07 of
the UCB Project Agreement).   Salient features are that UCB's financing is
limited for each project to 80% of its total cost and that maturities of
small scale industry loans are limited to a maximum of 10 years.
52.       UCB's overall lending to various sectors has by and large been in
line with guidelines established by the Bank of Uganda which, as of June 1,
1981,  stipulated the following maxima:   agriculture and manufacturing 30%
each, trade and commerce 15%, transport 10%, building 8.5%, mining 5%, and
local government and urban authorities 1.5%. The portfolio of small scale
industry loans as of September 30, 1980 was USh 7.13 million, only 0.3% of
UCB's total portfolio. UCB's overall financial performance has been good.
Except for 1979, when UCB made a loss because of war-related damages and
write-offs, it operated profitably during the past five-year period.  Net
profits increased from USh 11 million in 1976 to USh 65 million (or over 1%
of its working resources) in 1980. UCB's other financial performance indi-
cators are also good.
Benefitting Industries and Project Pipeline
53.       The US$30 million UDB line of credit will finance projects selec-
ted from a short list of 25 industrial enterprises, preselected by the
Government, the Association and UDB on the basis of economic and technical
criteria from a list of over 100 medium and large enterprises requiring
funds for the rehabilitation of capital assets. Economic criteria were the
potential to save foreign exchange directly through producing essential
consumer goods and construction materials and the potential to contribute
indirectly to foreign exchange earnings through producing essential inputs
for agricultural activities.   Coffee and tea processing plants as well as
cotton ginneries were excluded, as funding for their rehabilitation is
available from other donors.   Also excluded are fairly complex projects
with substantial funding requirements,  e.g. sugar industries.  UDB would
screen and appraise subprojects on the basis of further agreed criteria
(Section 2.01(b)(i) of the UDB Project Agreement) which, while verifying
the benefit of the proposed subproject rehabilitation to the economy, would
focus on technical, financial and organizational aspects of the proposed
subproject. They would ensure: an adequate economic rate of return; earn-
ing or saving foreign exchange; appropriate engineering and technical



- 17 -
design; financial soundness of the enterprise before and after rehabilita-
tion; competent management; clear ownership; and a low degree of dependence
on imported inputs.
54.        The estimated foreign exchange cost of rehabilitating all of the
short-listed 25 medium- and large-scale projects is US$152.1 million,
including US$62.2 million for plant, machinery and equipment, US$54.3
million for imported raw materials, and US$35.6 million for spare parts,
expatriate consultants, civil works, and vehicles. In addition, some local
capital costs, mainly import duties and civil works, would be incurred.
These would, however, represent only a small proportion of the total
rehabilitation costs.  Meaningful quantitative estimates of these are not
yet available.
55.         As the proposed credit allocation of US$30 million for the UDB
component would as yet be the only firm commitment available, co-financing
possibilities are being explored by the government with the Association's
assistance (paragraph 48 above).  Preliminary contacts have been made with
the European Investment Bank and the OPEC Special Fund. Other likely sour-
ces are suppliers' credits and equity funds from some of the project
owners.
56.       Preselection of individual subprojects for the small scale indus-
tries component,  to be implemented by UCB, has not been practical.   They
would be mainly engaged in food processing, production of rudimentary farm
implements, and repair and maintenance services.   The use of funds under
the UCB project component would not be limited to rehabilitation: also new
units would be eligible for financing, provided they fall within the prior-
ity areas mentioned above and provided their sponsors can demonstrate prior
experience in the type of business proposed for financing.  The US$5 mil-
lion allocation from the proposed credit would be sufficient to meet the
potential foreign exchange demand of an estimated 40 to 50 small projects
within the two-year time frame of the proposed line of credit.  In select-
ing and appraising subprojects, UCB would apply agreed criteria (Section
2.01 (b)(i) of the UCB Project Agreement), which correspond to those
applicable to the UDB project component (paragraph 53 above).
Features of the Proposed Credit and Project Implementation
57.       The proposed credit of US$35 million would be made to the Govern-
ment, which would channel US$30 million to UDB and US$5 million to UCB
*         under respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements; the conclusion of these would
be conditions of effectiveness for the proposed credit (Section 6.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement).   Of these amounts,  the Government would be
permitted to use up to US$10 million and up to US$1.25 million, respective-
ly, as equity subscriptions in UDB and UCB (paragraphs 43 and 50 above).
The balances would be on-lent to both intermediaries at 6.5% per annum
interest. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk against an
annual fee of 1% per annum; this charge would be passed on to the subbor-
rowers. As UDB and UCB will lend credit funds to subborrowers at a minimum
interest of 14% per annum, which is the prevailing rate for industrial
lending in Uganda (paragraph 46 above), the 1% additional fee would result
in an effective total charge of at least 15% per annum for subborrowers.



- 18 -
As inflation has recently levelled off to a negligible rate, UDB's and
UCB's on-lending rates are currently positive in real terms and adequate.
In line with government policy, the continued adequacy would be periodical-
ly reviewed on the basis of the liquidity situation in the banking system,
the incidence of inflation, and the level of international interest rates
(Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.01(b)(ii)
of the UDB and UCB Project Agreements).
58.          UDB will amortize its on-lent share of the proposed credit in
accordance with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the subloans
made from this amount.  Subloans would be for a maximum of 15 years (para-
graph 47 above) including an appropriate grace period.  The on-lent portion
of UCB's credit share would be amortized according to a fixed schedule of
10 years, including 4 years of grace.  The average maturity of UCB's sub-
loans under the proposed credit is estimated at about 6 years including 1
year of grace.
59.        In order to ensure an equitable distribution of the credit pro-
ceeds and also to diversify its financial risk, UDB will not be permitted
to commit more than US$4 million to any single subproject from the proposed
credit. There will be no free limit applicable to the UDB portion of the
credit and the Association would review all subprojects proposed for finan-
cing on the basis of a detailed technical, financial, economic, and commer-
cial evaluation by UDB's industry department.   For the UCB component,  the
Association would review and approve a sample, consisting of subprojects
utilizing the first US$1.0 million of the UCB line of credit.   Both lines
of credit are expected to be committed by June 30, 1984.
60.          The bulk of the items required for rehabilitation, especially
spare parts, are not standardized and require proprietary procurement.  In
addition, most purchases would involve large numbers of inexpensive items.
They would, therefore, normally not be suitable for International Competi-
tive Bidding. Instead, UDB and UCB would be permitted to use their regular
procurement procedures, which call for comparative shopping to ensure that
items procured are appropriate and reasonably priced.   Under the UDB pro-
ject component, sub-borrowers would, in the case of major contracts not
affected by standardization requirements, be asked to consider Internation-
al Competitive Bidding, and UDB's appraisal reports would indicate, as
appropriate, which contracts had been considered for this form of procure-
ment. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the
cost of imported goods and services, 80% of the costs of goods procured
locally but previously imported, and 65% of the total cost of civil works.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 1987.
Project Risk
61.         There are three major risks that may affect the success of the
proposed project.  First, the project would be implemented at a time when
economic and other conditions  in Uganda are still unsettled.   While the
credit funds to subborrowers at a minimum interest of 14% per annum, which
is the prevailing rate for industrial lending in Uganda (paragraph 46
above), the 1% additional fee would result in an effective total charge of
at  least  15%  per  annum  for  subborrowers.    As  inflation  has  recently



- 19 -
levelled off to a negligible rate, UDB's and UCB's on-lending rates are
currently positive in real terms and adequate.   In line with government
policy, the continued adequacy would be periodically reviewed on the basis
of the liquidity situation in the banking system, the incidence of infla-
tion, and the level of international interest rates (Section 4.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.01(b)(ii) of the UDB and UCB
Project Agreements).
58.         UDB will amortize its on-lent share of the proposed credit in
accordance with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the subloans
made from this amount.  Subloans would be for a maximum of 15 years (para-
graph 47 above) including an appropriate grace period. The on-lent portion
of UCB's credit share would be amortized according to a fixed schedule of
10 years, including 4 years of grace.  The average maturity of UCB's sub-
loans under the proposed credit is estimated at about 6 years including I
year of grace.
59.        In order to ensure an equitable distribution of the credit pro-
ceeds and also to diversify its financial risk, UDB will not be permitted
to commit more than US$4 million to any single subproject from the proposed
credit.  There will be no free limit applicable to the UDB portion of the
credit and the Association would review all subprojects proposed for finan-
cing on the basis of a detailed technical, financial, economic, and commer-
cial evaluation by UDB's industry department.   For the UCB component,  the
Association would review and approve a sample, consisting of subprojects
utilizing the first US$1.0 million of the UCB line of credit.   Both lines
of credit are expected to be committed by December 1985.
60.          The bulk of the items required for rehabilitation, especially
spare parts, are not standardized and require proprietary procurement.  In
addition, most purchases would involve large numbers of inexpensive items.
They would, therefore, normally not be suitable for International Competi-
tive Bidding. Instead, UDB and UCB would be permitted to use their regular
procurement procedures, which call for comparative shopping to ensure that
items procured are appropriate and reasonably priced.  Under the UDB pro-
ject component, sub-borrowers would, in the case of major contracts not
affected by standardization requirements, be asked to consider Internation-
al Competitive Bidding, and UDB's appraisal reports would include a state-
ment to this effect in cases where International Competitive Bidding should
be considered appropriate.   The proceeds of the credit 'would be disbursed
*         against 100% of the cost of imported goods and services, 80% of the costs
of goods procured locally but previously imported, and 65% of the total
cost  of  civil  works.   Disbursements  are  expected  to  be  completed  by
December 1987.
Project Risk
61.        There are three major risks that may affect the success of the
proposed project.   First,  the project would be implemented at a time when
economic and other conditions in Uganda are still unsettled.   While the
project cannot be delayed for this reason, because it will itself contri-
bute to improving these conditions, serious deficiencies in infrastructural
services and weaknesses in government administration may make project



- 20 -
implementation difficult. Second, the intermediaries would be taking major
financial risks in their on-lending to enterprises for rehabilitation at a
time when they themselves are fragile financially. While careful appraisal
and selection of final beneficiaries by these intermediaries should reduce
any default risk by subborrowers, the environment is such that even care-
fully selected projects could run into financial difficulties.   Third, at
the enterprise level, a number of bottlenecks such as a continued shortage
of inputs are likely to interfere with the normal operation of projects
after rehabilitation. The selection of only priority projects which should
be given preference in future foreign exchange allocations because they
contribute to foreign exchange earnings or savings, should mitigate this
risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.         The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the Asso-
ciation and UDB and UCB, respectively, and the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
63.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
64.          I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
April 28, 1982



ANNEX I
Page l of 5
T. 21 -
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             236.0                                  MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      106.1               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   140.0        210.0      290.0 /e              238.3                    794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        43.2         88.5      38.7                  70.05                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  6806.0         9806.4   12797.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.2          - 8.0        11.5                  17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         24.45
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           67.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 01.                         28.8         41.6      54.2                   27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       72.0         98.0     116.9                   73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.3         44.4      45.2                   44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                           53.6         52.6      51.7                   52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1          3.0       3.1                    2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8          3.7       3.0                    2.6                     2.8
URBAN                                7.1          7.8       7.0                    6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.9         44.6      44.7                   46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.0         16.5      13.6                   19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          3.0       3.0                    3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          3.8      16.1
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           107.0         99.0      89.0                  89.5                     89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.0        98.0       91.0                  90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            47.0         55.0      57.0                  52.7                     52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0        24.0       26.0                  17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       29.3         21.9      16.0                   27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.0           49.0      53.6                  45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            159.0        120.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         22.0      35.0                   23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                 ..         88.0     100.0                  55.0                     74.3
RURAL                                 ..         17.0      29.0                   18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         76.0      94.0                   26.2
URBAN                                 ..        84.0       82.0                   63.5
RURAL                                 ..         76.0      95.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           14062.0/c   14666.2/c 27598.6                 31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9423.87T    2698.oT,d4297.5                   3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              695.4        641.2     624.0                 1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                               72.2         83.3        ..                  272.8                   423.0
RURAL                             1610.5       1827.4        ..                 1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        154.1/d
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          4.8
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMbER OF PERSONS PER RODM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
- 22 -
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE/RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
AUSTb ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 49.0         39.0      50.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                  65.0        48.0       58.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                32.0        31.0       41.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          4.0       5.0                  10.0                    16.2
MALE                   4.0         6.0        7.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0        2.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  12.0           7.0       5.0                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0         34.0      35.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          18.0         20.0      26.0                  25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        34.9           ..         ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          3.0       2.5                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         13.2         23.5      20.8                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1          1.4       6.7                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   8.0          8.5       3.0                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            ..       0.1                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3040.2       4207.7    5240.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.1         34.6      34.1                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.4         85.9      83.3                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.6          4.6       5.8                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7         42.9      41.0                  41.7                     37.2
MALE                                 58.8         56.8      54.5                  54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                               31.0         29.3      27.6                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         20.0
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          46.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          6.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         16.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOmE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOIUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government establishments only.
/e This estimate is for 1979.  The 1980 estimate,                                             May, 1981
reported in the last World Bank Atlas, is US$280
per capita.



AIEX I
- 23 -                                                 Page  3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIl. INDICATORS
Nots:  Although the data are drec-   from  stau Ies gemerolly judged the most authoritative sod reliable, it sbould also be noted nhbt they nay ott be inter-
eat    ily compar-ble because of the look cf ontcdtrdiedd definitions and coecepts used by diffeteet ountties iG  collecting the data.  The data ate,  oon.-
thelees, useful to do-soibe ordero of  agoitoude, iodicato treeds, and oharo-nertie  -ertain cjoor diffesanoes between uontries.
The referance grouep arc (1) the stoe couptry g-nup of the sobj)et nouncty med (2) a onotry group mitt somewhat highe, average booms tbuo the oconery gr-op
ef obe subjsect coutery (exept for 'apteel Surplus Oil lopotters'" group  here "Middle tortes North Afrita aed Riddle tEen' ts choset  because of stro egr
ecei.o-tulurol A ffintues).  In the ref.erene  geoup dons thn erages are po.pl.onine wighted orinhastic eean  toe f            cih iedinator and shown coly ohee
a           joelep of the  _countes in e groop hbo  date for than iodinator.  toots te coverage of countrioeseog the indiosnore depends on the attilobillty of dots
sod is not onifc=, cantion  =ut be eaercieed in relating averages of one indicator to  -noth-r  Tb et arereges ore only usoful io coepariog the valun of
.±e leidicato  At E tize tsong the c-ootry and refereore group.
LAM5 ASIA fthln.eaodsq1.h.)                                                                       Po aIo per HSoytta1 led - t.eal, orhac  -o rra  - Ppala-i-e (total,
T l - Thotaus n                          lad a       od ild  bt .                                 urban, ad rut) divided by thier respeoti-e .oeb-r of hompital bded
Agricultural - Etatlte of agriculatrol ere  used  spor-tily or pe-,uosotly                        available in publit  and private general end aperialtzed ho.peial sod re-
for coops, pyetu-es, market and kithoen gardeno or to lie  a ,oe; 1979 dit.                      ab hbilitelot e i te-ra. .  Hcspitnla ot. ost pbllob-dis  per en-inlly   ,toIfe
by at leost ona pbyetcloo.  lEnabllehb.eoto yr-idtcg yrtcoipsllyret-
GRP PtE CAPITA (USS) - tNP par copit.  e            Atimatee at cucrent maclee prices,  .l-        dial otr   Aee tot included.  Rorl ho-pitolo. ho-ever, ile de hbealth
colated by same co- vers Ion   ebohd as Wrrld tack Atlas (1977-79 basit); 1960.                   eod cedlool cenetr one poretoently scoffed by a phy,cciot (bat by a
1970, sod 1979 dot..,ta.mdca   sieae  cre  ondlteif, tc.) noch offer in-railiecacomn
d-tion aed procide a lImited r-ogc of medica, fo-tlini atie. FortoTo-
ENERGY CONSUMPD;TON PER y APITA - A..oal octeoptiee of c--rcial  -nergy (o-l                        tical purposes urban ho.pi,o!a  i-loade WHO. prtiipal/ geteral hospitals,
aed lignite, petroleam, eanarol gas mod hydrn-, nuclear sod go_th-el elec-                        aed rural hoapitalq lotal cr rural hospitle and mednial and maetoiery
tnlnity) in kilogreea of cnalnquivalent per ca.pita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                         centees   Spetialized boopltalo are itcluded  only oeder etal.
dins.                                                                                           Adniesi.os per HoPrtol Sod - Total no.her o- f oditeio.s no or di-ohagr.e
from boepitalt divided by the oombe- of beds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Tntel Populetion, Kid-Ylar (thousa. ds) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1979                  HOUSING
date.                                                                                         Areraeo  lot of Household (per-onret per h-eusod) - total, urbae, nod tutul-
lrbae Pocuuolepeeei     otna)-  atic of urban to tonal popalotino;                                A hoomobldceie  oagrpcf  Hti                'dhl Ib share liregqanr
dtffereot  defieitions of arbarn ae ma pafftn .o.. p-ility of dana                              sod thieit ml  m-eas.  A bor-de  or lodg         Y or m   one be inc 1ded ic
aIong onuntrles; 1960, 1970, end 1979 data.                                                     the hbo.shold for soatistical p-rpyoe.
Porulation yrjoI ctio- s                                                                        Average comber of prsorc   per roo- totol, urbao, and rutsl - Average nt-
PoPulatico  it year 2000 - Current popylatiot pro-e-tios arc based on 1980                     ber of persons per room it  11 a   rbao, sod taral accupied cavtioot       l
total populetion by age and set .nd their  -ortality and felity totes.                        dvellings, reepecti-ely.  Delliogi oclude nctyoeanststctur-st and
Projection par_motere foe mortality  -atno coyrtiee of three level as.ue-                      onoccupied porte.
ig life l npeogatey so birtb  oneolug eib  conry's per caIpins inooRs                     Accost to Electriclitv  (ercont of dwellioos) - ntol, urban, and ratal -
level, sod female life repectancy staheIieog at 77.5 years.   The part-                       Covyetional doelliogs vithb  lectricity  it liviog quorters as perneotage
Ienere for fereiliny rote alto haes three levela astoming decltne in                          of tonal, arbae, and rural dvelloigs respectively
fertility accorditg to J.ncee levol tnd pase   elily plaoting perfort nte.
Each country ia then assigned non of bthee tine co-bientiots of meteleity                EDUCATION
mud fertility trends for projectiot purposes                                               Adi.sted Etr-11-nt Ratice
statiotry poulatio - In a   tatio-ary  poyplantio  there is on groont since                     Prima'ry zchool - total, ma  sod female - Grott  total, mtle sod fe-le
the birth rate is equal to the death rote, and olso thee  etrocturere-                          eernll=eoo   of all agrs  et the  pritary level tr percentoges of resrective
ma One coeooot.t  Ebie is anbieved only after fertility cetes declite to                       primary sohool-age populantoes; corually includet childreo aged 6-1I
tbe rplocme=ent levol of anOi net repr-dactono tote, obenoeab generation                        years but adjusted for different lengths of poimary educotion; for
of wvm=enreplaces itr-lf emactly   The snottonary population ales nee                           coentries vIioth    r    iersol eduoacio  enrollennt naY -nceed 100 perc-et
estimated cc ihe hasic of the proje-tod chato,terietioe of the  population                       ioce sees pupils err below or oboey   the  official school ago.
it  the yost 2000, and the rate of declite of fertility rote to replaet-                      S..oodarry  chool - total male aed female - Coepatod Os obov.; s.condory
doet level.                                                                                     edcation requires on IeIet four years of ayproved primtcy ientru-tion;
Year ani-toe       cty populaton is reoched - Thl  year ohen  -tmti-nmaro populati                p    d           I       IIoal, or te-h-er training insruct-ons for ppi
als los hoee I eac hed.                                                                         aslly of 12 to 17 years of  ge; correspondeoce cocr.es are generally
Poealattion Dsoitny                                                                                 rtlded.
Per so  ha  -  id-ypor populatio- per tquare kilometer (100 hbectres) cf                       Pecatinnul ecrolloene (percent of ieeecdrry) - Vocantial . istituti.os
total  Iren; 1960, 1970 end 1979 date                                                            -iclode technical, ioduserial, or other programe ohich operate indepeed-
yet so. ha. aerlcultucl land - Compated as above for agriculturol land                            ently or am deycrepente of secondary lotliutiooe
Only;  6196, 1970 and 1978 da                                                                 Pupil-teshoer reto - trimary, and socond-ry - fetal stodent enrollod in
repulonino  Age StruntA. e (fercent) - Childree (0-14 ypers),  -orking-Ogf  (15-                    primary and ecc-ndory levels divided by vombero of neacher-  in the
64 ye-r-), sod retired  767 years asd over) as perctentg-s of =id-yeor popu-                      correspondifg level.
easi..; 1960, 1970, sad 1979 dte.                                                               AdMlt literoco ratejperc-e-) - Literateo dult  (able to rend ad write)
Populaetion Groth hote (per-eet) - tto.l - An-ual greeth rate  of tonl =id-                         as I pereo.tege of total aduly popultilon oged 15 ypote and ovr.
poor populations for 1950-6h, 1960-70, sod 1970-79.
Popolanic- Groeth tao  fperet).    - urban - aaaa1 gr-oh rtes. of urben popa-                 CONSUMtPTION
latiors for 1950-60, 191-7f  and 1970-79.                     -                               Paof uaer Clte  (Per thousand populatino) - P.s.s.goe  core comprise Pt or
Cledae Silth Rfte frer thousand) - Anmuel live births per thosusd of mid-yost                     car-.eating leto that sight persoos; excludes ambol-cs, h-bearse and
population; 1960, 1970, mod 1979 dna.                                                           milltarp vehiclez
Grnde Death Rhte (ret tboassed) - An-1n deaths pee th.o.s. do of mid-year                       kadio  .ec.ivern  (Per thousand porplatie) - All typet of rece-ivrs for radio
population; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dan.                                                           broedce  no geeeral pu pbio Pr thousand of popultn; ecludea on-
Gross Secreducation Rte - Aeago  nu=ber of doughterm  a womes will bear iG                        litorsod rocei-crs to countries ond in yerar vhen rogistranfne of rodio
her norl reproductive peeid if she experie-c.s present ags-specific Set-                       sets us in effect; dano fee rencn  years may not be .onparable mi-ce
talty p rtes; usually fire-year averagee sendlg it 1960, 1970, aed 1979.                        mot tountries abolished lineming.
yam I.y   .  . Pm ia- A-oepncra, looo  (ehouma        A .) . Ioo  tober of oo-peorc            fly tRticrs  co  thoussod ropulatiot) - DV reco-vr  for breadoa..t no
of bitoh-co-trol dvi. c   u-d-e a. pin.s of caneen  family Pnu= er fog program                  general Pobi.c per thouemnd pplolnI;-eolde   -1tced yr reiivorb
Family Plnnin  -l Uots (Percent of married vomen) - Percostage of mar-efd                         it  coot toes snd 1n years whom registratint  of TV sets  -t in effect.
woman of child-b-earig  age (15-44 ypers) vho use birth-cnont-l devices to                    lecepappr Circulaeion (ret thcustnd copulotiot) - thova the aecage clir-
all mtarried romeo in II_e Age group.                                                           colatio  of 'dailp genorol iot_toteeopnpor", defined as a periodical
publication devoted primarily to recording ge.erol -re. In is considored
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                                  to be "doily" if it  ppears et lee.  foot times os ek.
Iden of Yood Pcoduction rer loaps (1969-7>1-10   -  Iodom of per capita antual .ine.I                   Alne  l Attendance per      Prine ret Year - Based as thr n ,be Of
production of all food com-eoddtieI Production exclude  soed sod feed aed                       tickets snld during the peon, iocludieg adeli-ino   to drive-it otoemee
is to caledar Peat basis Po=o_dities covet primary g.odo  (e g  augorcane                       and mobile u-its.
instead of sugar) ohich are edible sod continuttleoto  (e.g  coffee sod
te   are  xcluded).  Aggregate producttio  of -ah -cnatty is based on                      LABOR PORCE
notional average producer price  eilghie; 1961-65, 1970, ond 1979 dais.                       Total Labor Perce (thousands) - Econo=ically acire pecsnne, including
Ptr capita euPply of ralorie- (per-e-n  of reniutr;eete    ) - Copated from                     ormed fortes and n'eeploped but enoludiog hcss-wio-a, students, oe.,
energy eqaivalent of  ret food supplies available io country per 00 pits                      covertig popolatn  of all  gre.  Definitions it  otain.. eonntrins are
pee day.   Acailable supplies c1 oprlee domestic production, imports less                     tot oonptrsl; 196G, 1970 and 1979 dana.
coytres, and cht ge  In etock.   eo supplies exclade animal feed, soed,                    Pomale (nernent) - Femle labor force as percentage of totel labor forte.
quaetities used in food processing, and losses tn distribunin   Require-                   Ariculture (perc.on) - Labor forte it fori.og, forestry, hunting ted
meets ore e.t. . e.t d by FAO bhsed an physiotogical u-ds for eonnal anti-                    fibhing as pereentgSe of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dats.
vity med heslth considerieg  .ovirnomt-tal te-pet-ure, body weIghts, Age                    Industry (perten) - Labor force to mieiog, conatructio-,  _nofaoturing
atd .eo  dittribhti-o of poynlanict, ord alloeieg 10 percent for nase  at                     med electricity,  -n-r and gas as porecntage of total labor force; 1960,
household lerel; 1961-h5, 1970, and 1977 dota.                                                '970 sd 1979 dat.
Per o_ eits     I,upply of Protein (  _2as cer doy) - Protein contant  of per oapita          Pnrticiratfoo hate (perceon) - t-tol, Par,e -nd fema1  - Portiolpanion cc
et supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined us sborn  Rt-                      activity ttet_ are noeputed as  .totl, ma_e, ond female labor forte an
,,qurepent  for all countriez eotablisbhd by USDA provide for mioitmu                         petoSrengee of total, malt sod femolo population of  11 ages repecttivly;
C                                 ollovance of 60 graes of . totl proteie per day ond 20 graeS  of anitzl and                   1960, 1970, sod 1979 de,. Thes-  ore based 00 ILO's psrttclpotieo  rates
pulse proteic, Of which 10 Stems sho-ld bh  animol protein.  Those esod-                      rdfloIntog age-nec structure of the populanion, and loog tie Trend.  A
orde  tee loeer than those of 75 gratm  of total protein and 23 graSn of                      fee estimaItes are frnm  oational socIces
anietl protein  as s  verage for the world,  .roposed by PAO io the Third                  Econeo=i lereedeecy h aie - Rtuic of popoletion under 15 and 65 and orer
World Pood Surrey; 1961-65, 1970 Pnd 1977 dat,                                               to  t       tal lhbor force.
Per ca_ica proteie Iurply from animal and vulse - Protein aupply of food do-
tired fros aemials and pul.er  it groSu  per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dts.            INCOME DlSTRIglTION
Child (ej~SeI-)tralnhae(ethuo)- Annual deobs per th-comaed it                                    ecnno   f Prioe  bumt(bthOctou in              rd          R..d) . ecived by riches
age group-  p o. r   toc           d I this  age group; for e.se derolOpit  ceto-            5P peent,gef Prce           o 20  t, P         0 prnt    d poore.t 40 perent
tries dota derived froa life tables; 1960, 1970 ucd 1979 deta.                                  ol ho-eroldo.
RALSrn                                                                                         POVEtTY TARGET GROUPS
life  Eit       a n1 irB   y  A9r7ge nb   of years of life t                  n ng              The follting estimtn.e are vry approomiace mesmotec of poverty levela,
on bie    19d 1971 ae  b          ota.                                                          aod  hpuld be interpreted nith coosider.blo  cautie.
-1an Ooroity Rote (pot thousand)- hAual drethe of infan-  vodor one yea                   Eutimoted Abeolato Portey Income here  (1S9 cnn tapiIr)- oba  and rural -
of ageper thusand  irt births.                                                            Absolute povetyi -oom    i~t'I it that lot... level helo,  bic~h amtia
Atte s to  fa gon-ter (Pcocen of c       rural)  vith."otal ba        rural - tum-                enititoslly  dequate diet pi..  -notiol Io.-f.od requiteentti   n ct
bet of people (total, urban, and rua)wt-          raoalxoo    osf                               apferdall.
water supply (includes treated sofae  ane ot neoted bo t ceteletnd                            fiatfodablelaiePrrylcm   eo   1$prcet)-oba  n   oo 
-,:; ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ u t-       e - vf t- .'   -t:t  d bu t    -.oe     u   .t...na e  E.ti-tutd Relative Povertv lncot   Leve   (US$ Per capi,.) - urban and rural-
aorsubhsthat fran peteceeld hoebolto,  prioge, and sanitary wols) ahoerlnveptnyicm lrline-thIrd of --eog  pee caPIta
pereeentg_S  of their reIpece populanions   In an urbn  area a publid                                                                                            r          r
fountain on unsodpote located cno  Eree thn 200   tn Ir    a ho               my  pbrsonal iocor  of the couetty   Urbar level is derired fie the rural
considereda big  ihn  eso.b n:tl,d,I.t                 etz.t.d  ro= a, use wayelevel                              t=t Ifor higher cent of llviog im urban tres.
cnided asbaig  ilebit recebl  sc I of  ht h.oS.e.  In rura  oeneltioctd PooltletocAhlteprt  ecmle l(tcn
reasonableacness woold imply thai the bcuaeioife cc m°beohe   of the household                astitutld ra    u-ltionot of pcpolateio (ortby oId  Lreve) h.e 'abo urbt n
do cot hare to oprnd a dimproy-rotonsec part of the dsy in fetching the                         poetn                                                 ll
fo tily"  Ia000r oeeds                                                                          poor
Accesoo to Ecreta liscosal (cercent of population- total, urban, sod rural -
Numbnr of people (total, unbon, sod rural) secred op sucreno disposal as
percentagos of thei oespective populatonie    Onete  disposal may include
the collention aod dispoosl, gith or vithout trten ot, of b          oeoreta                                                          c          d       1   t  livii
and wamee-met   by  ater-bor-r symtema ot tho u    of pit pririe  end  i=i                                                      nco nol    aed S         riaDta Dipision      ot
lar iEs-allsio                                  aic Aly                                                                                                  19d8P1io    Depsrt
Porwlstion Per Physiciso - Popolation di,idnd by  onub-r of practiciog phyai-                                                                          MA  1981
clots qaslifled from a =edical scbool an univrsinty level.
Popclation Per Nursing Perton - Popolation divided by nub-er of practiciog
male and female graduatne nutes, practical n.r.e., and .s.i.cant  nurses



Page   4  of 5
- 24 -
EXtDIC 1EVEWPHMZT DAMA - UGANDA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980 a/ = LB$280
GRS  NAfIOAL PRDDOIr IN 1980 a/                             ARUA  RAZZ OF CRWI  (%, Constant Prices)
IE$ Million      %               1967-71    1971-79    1980
GNP at Market Prices           3,536      100.0                4.4        -1.7      -8.1
Gross Dorestic Investnnt         120        3.4                4.0       -13.0      21.9
Gross National Savings          -128       -3.6                3.8
Current Account Balance          -248      -7.0
Export of Goeds, MS               332       9.4                0.4       -10.6    -22.4
Import of Goods, NES             572       16.2               -0.1        -7.5      18.0
VAlUE ADED IN 1980 (At 1966 Prices) b/         E        ln   FNAlXE
Central Governsent
Ti$ Miuion      x                                               (lEh Million)      (% of GDP)
1980/81     1980/81    1971/72
Agriculture                     424        51.7             Current Receipts                      3,096        1.0       13.5
Idustry                          46         5.6             Current Expenditure                   9,996        3.1       13.5
Services                        350        42.7             Curent Surplus                       -6,900       -2.1         -
Total                         820       100.0             Capital Expeniiture                   3,400        1.1        8.6
MUEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                    1976    1977       1978       1979       1980       1981 d/
eSuh Million Outstanding End PeriodT
Mnwy Supply                               4,492    5,787     7,051      10,620     13,905     34,600
Bark Credit to Govermnent                 4,790    5,522     7,199       9,198     14,848     29,300
Bark Credit to Other Sectors              1,937    2,885     3,221       3,658      5,849     11,500
1976    1977      1978        1979       1980       1981 d/
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Y*xW as Z of GDP                           17.0    10.6       10.1         9.0        5.9         8.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100) c/         601    1,133     1,546       4,894      5,474      10,058
Arasol percentage changes in:
General Price Index                        46.6    88.5       36.5       216.6       11.9        83.7
Ba* Credit to Public Sector                32.9.   15.3       30.4        27.8       61.4        97.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector              14.3    48.9       11.6        13.6       59.9        96.6
A  The Per Capita GNP estimate is calculated by the sane conversion technige as the World Bank Atlas (adjustirx for the over-
valued exchange rate but not for any underrecordirg of "magerdo" transactions). The (WP at current prices in US dollars
is derived y nmultiplying the per capita figure by population. The gross investment rate is assumed to be the sane as in
the Uganlxa shillirg estimates. Given the balanc  of payments data fran page 2, gross national savings is derived as a
residual.
b/ Up-to-date figures on employment and productivity are unavailable.
c/ Kanpala low-incczne cost of living index.  Indices prior to 1979 may be understated as sane controlled prices w-re used in
tEe calculation of the indices. Indices for 1980 and 1981 are incomplete as cost-of-livirg data were not collected frmn
October 1980 to July 1981. In particular, the increase in the index for 1980 is grossly tniderstated, especially for the
food ccmponent.
d/ Estimates.
not applicable
.. not available



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA - UGANDA
BALANCE OF PAYMENIS                                                                    MERHANDISE EXPCRIS (Average 1978-81)
US$ MI-lion % d/
1978      1979      1980      1981 a/
(UK$ Million)                   Coffee                             329      95.4
Cotton                              9       2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS                       332       412       332       240          Tea                                 3       0.8
Imports of Goods, NES                     -458       -391      -572      -490          Tobacco                             1       0.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)                 -126        21      -240      -250          Other Exports                       3        1.0
Factor Services and Transfers (net) b/      -12       -25        -8          -           Sub-Total                       345     100.0
Balance on Current Account                -138         -4      -248      -250          Adjustments e/                    -30      -8.6
Total                           315      91.4
Official Grants                              9         24        85       110
Public M&LT Loans (net)                      38       104        84         10         EXIERNAL IEET, DECEMEER 31, 1980
Disbursenents                             (66)     (145)     (131)      (120)                                             US$ Million
Amortization                             (-28)     (-41)     (-47)    (-110)
Use of Fund Credit (net)                     -2        -4        26        125
Other Items n.e.i. (net)                     50      -182      -123         96         Public Debt, incl. Quiaranteei            612 f/
Overall Balance of Payments                 -43       -62      -176        91          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 ..
Total Outstanding and Disbursed           612
Net Reserves (end year)                      72        17       -24       -24          NET IEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 g/                     n
Payment Arrears (end year)                   94       100       235        144                                                      %
Petroleum Imports c/                         43        63       124        114         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed               17.7
Petroleum Exports c/                                                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outsta:nding and Disbursed            17.7
RAIE OF EXCHANGE                                                                       IERD/IDA IENDING (Dec. 31, 1981)  (US$ Million)
IBRD f/   IDA
Annual Averages        End Period
1979    1980   Jan.-Sept.1981   Oct.1981           Outstanding and Disbursed           25        58
US$1.00 = USh                      7.4686  7.4242     39.8020        78.700            Undisbursed                          1        58      X
LShl.00 = US$                     0.1339  0.1347       0.0251         0.0127           Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed      26       116         X
a/ Estimates.                                                                                                                                o
b/ Excludes official grants.                                                                                                                 Ln
c/ Uganda imports all petroleum in the fonm of products and has no petroleum exports.
d/ % of unadjusted merchandise exports.
e/ Includes errors and omissions, and adjustments for valuation, coverage and timing.
f/ Includes Uganda's notional share (15%) of EAC loans.
Debt service payments (amortization and interest) as a percentage of exports of goods and NES.
not available.                                                                                                       March 31, 19&-



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1981
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year   Borrower   Purpose                Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and six credits fully disbursed          8.40    40.73
258-UG   1971    Uganda    Second Education                 7.30         .25
983-UG   1980    Uganda    First Reconstruction
Program                     72.501      52.90
1077-UG  1981    Uganda    Technical Assistance             8.00        8.00
1110-UG  1981    Uganda    Water Supply
Engineering2                9.00         9.00
Total                                    8.40   137.53        70.15
of which has been repaid              8.40      4.96
Total now outstanding                     .00   132.57
Amount sold:                     8.32
of which has been repaid       8.32
Total now held by Bank and IDA3           .00   132.57
Total undisbursed                         .00     70.15       70.15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF MARCH 31, 1982
Nil



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES INVOLVING
KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1982
(US$ million)
Amount (less cancellation)
No.      Year  Borrower    Purpose                Bank4         Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                         135.80
638-EA   1969    EAHC       Second Harbours        35.00             0.52
865-EA   1972    EAHC       Third Harbours         26.50             0.35
914-EA   1973    EAPTC      Third Telecommuni-
cations            32.50             0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB       Second Development
Finance             15.00            3.11
Total                                  244.80            4.26
of which has been repaid             71.04
Total now outstanding                  173.76
Amount sold                   24.36
of which has been repaid   24.36      0.00
Total now held by Bank                 173.76
Total undisbursed                        4.26            4.26



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
UGANDA
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982
There are currently four projects under execution:
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 258-UG - Second Education Project:  US$7.3 million
Credit of June 23, 1971; Effective Date: October 26, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Delays in project implementation persisted due to, inter alia,
transportation difficulties and shortages of local construction materials.
Overall completion is about 80%.   Since the remaining balance under the
credit is expected to be disbursed shortly, the project's closing date has
not been postponed.   Work financed under the First Reconstruction Credit
(US$2.5 million), involving replacement of looted or destroyed materials
and equipment are expected to complement the project.  When completed and
facilities provided under the project are in full operation, the education-
al objectives of the project are expected to be realized.
RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Credit No. 983-UG - Reconstruction Credit I: US$72.5 million
Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective Date: May 1, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Along with the IDA credit, which includes US$17.5 million parti-
cipation from the Government of the Netherlands, a US$20.0 million EEC
Special Action Credit, a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 million and a grant of
US$5.0 million from the OPEC Fund have been made available to the Govern-
ment in support of its reconstruction program.  The IDA credit was to be
released in two tranches. Changes in the Government and delays in carrying
out agreed financial and economic policy reforms caused delays in the use
of the credit.  The closing date was therefore postponed by 18 months to
June 30, 1982 to allow for full disbursement of the proceeds of the credits
and the grants.  In June 1981, after the Government adopted policy measures
the Association required, it was agreed that the total amount of the cre-
dit would be released.   In the meantime about US$37.0 million have been
disbursed and about an additional US$47.0 million committed. It is expec-
ted that disbursements will speed up in the next months.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 1077-UG - Technical Assistance Project:  US$8.0
million Credit of January 21, 1981; Effective Date:  March 26,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Some progress has been achieved in implementing this line of cre-
dit; the first subprojects have been approved and disbursements have com-
menced.  However, implementation is still slow due to continued technical
and administrative problems with MPED.
Credit No. 1110-UG - Water Supply Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: October 5, 1981;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The feasibility studies on expansion of water supply and sanita-
tion activities in the seven towns are expected to be completed in February
1982. The contract for employment of management consultants to prepare the
manpower  training  study  is  being  negotiated.   The construction  of six
buildings is in progress.  Tenders for vehicles are being reviewed by the
Central Tender Board and tenders for water meters are expected to be invi-
ted in November 1981.  The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established
and is now adequately staffed besides three vacancies where efforts to fill
them are underway.
E. EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY PROJECTS INVOLVING UGANDA
In addition to the projects described above, Uganda also benefits
from lending to the East African Community.  Following the disintegration
of the East African Community, the allocation among the Partner States I
of undisbursed balance of loans to the East African Community Corporations
at October 1, 1977 was approved by the Executive Directors on January 12,
1978 on the basis of recommendations made in a report dated December 29,
1977 (R77-312).  Agreements in line with those recommendations were sub-
9          sequently signed by each of the Partner States on January 25, 1978. A por-
tion of the undisbursed balances under two loans (Loan 674-EA - East Afri-
can Railways Corporation (now fully disbursed), and Loan 914-EA - East
African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation) was allocated to Uganda.
Industrial projects in Uganda are also eligible for financing under the on-
going East African Development Bank Project (Loan 1204-EA).  Progress on
implementation of these projects is summarized below. Although the closing
date for Loan 914-EA has expired, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly defined under the terms of the agree-
ment of January 25, 1978, disbursements continued to be made.
1 Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: September 19,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and  training.   All  project  items  are  substantially  completed.   About
US$32.2 million of the loan has been disbursed to date.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio.  About US$11.7 million of the loan has been
disbursed to date.  The closing date has been postponed a second time to
June 30, 1982 to allow for completion of the project.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
UGANDA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
4         I.      Timetable of Key Events:
(a) First presentaton to the Association
and first mission:                               July 1979
(b)  Appraisal mission:                               September 1981
(c)  Completion of negotiatons:                       April 1982
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   August 1982
II.    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.   Special Conditions
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness:
(i) GOU and UDB to enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment (paragraph 57); and
(ii) GOU and UCB to enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment (paragraph 57).
(                 (b)  GOU to increase from its own resources, through June 30,
1985, the paid-in capital of UDB by USh300 million and of
UCB by UShl7O million (paragraphs 43 and 50).



