OPC    E1TS   CREDIT MBER 1248 UG
Project Agreement
(Industrial Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Da                  , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1248 UG
JECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  &       , 1982, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVEL     NT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called     the
Association) and the UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called
UDB), established pursuant to the Uganda Development Bank Decree
(Decree 23) of 1972 of the Republic of Uganda (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Associa-
tion has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-one million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that UDB agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and UDB, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to UDB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS UDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Managenent and Operations of UDB
Section 2.01. (a) UDB shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement,
and conduct its operations and affairs with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with the UDB Decree and
the UDB Statement of Policy.
(b) For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project,
UDB shall:
(i) apply the appraisal and selection criteria agreed
upon between UDB and the Association in selecting
Investment Enterprises; and
(ii) make   Investments   and  Sub-loans  on  terms   and
conditions set forth in this Agreement applicable
to Investments and Sub-loans, including, inter
alia, those set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement, provided, however,that the interest
rates to be charged on Sub-loans shall be adjusted
from   time  to   time  in   accordance  with  the
provisions of Section 4.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Development Credit Agreement, UDB shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval for with-
drawal to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) When submitting a Sub-loan or an Investment to the
Association for approval, UDB shall furnish to the Association an
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together
with a description of the Investment Enterprise and of the
Investment Project   to  be   financed  thereunder  (including   a
description of the expenditures for such Investment Project pro-
posed to be financed by UDB and an appraisal of the Investment
Project) and the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or
Investment, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-
loan or of repayment to UDB of the amount to be used for the


﻿-3-
Investment, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Borrower in respect of each
Investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace and,
unless the Association and UDB shall otherwise agree: (i) shall
not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Association of such Sub-loan or Investment; and (ii) shall pro-
vide for approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggre-
gate payments of principal and interest or approximately equal
semiannual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(d) Except as the Association and UDB shall otherwise
agree, UDB shall submit applications for approval of Investment
Projects pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section on or before June 30, 1984.
Section 2.03. (a)   UDB undertakes that unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be
made on terms whereby UDB shall obtain, by written agreement with
the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association, the
Borrower and of UDB, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan
and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
such Investment: (i) the right to require the Investment Enter-
prise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) the right to require that the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) the right of the Association and of UDB to inspect such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) the right to require that the Invest-
ment Enterprise take out and maintain such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice and that, without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment to the place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a
currency freely usuable by the Investment Enterprise to replace


﻿or repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such inform-
ation as the Association or UDB shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing, to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and the benefits to be
derived from the Investment Project; and (vi) the right of UDB to
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agree-
-              ment with UDB.
(b) UDB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the inter-
ests of the Association, the Borrower and of UDB; (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Agreement and the UDB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the
Project.
Section 2.04. UDB shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and Invest-
ments under Part A of the Project, the Investment Enterprises,
the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and the Investments under
Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. UDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the UDB Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, UDB shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the UDB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association and UDB shall other-
wise agree, UDB: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its opera-
tions and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
Section 2.07. UDB shall not amend the UDB Statement of
Policy except in agreement with the Association.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. In order to improve the effectiveness of UDB
as a major development bank in the Borrower's economy, UDB shall
not enter into any new commitments in respect of lending to
commerce and small industries after December 31, 1985.
Article III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. UDB shall maintain procedurgs and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A of the Pro-
ject and of each Investment Project thereunder (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of UDB and shall
enable   the  Association's   representatives   to  examine   such
records.
Section 3.02. UDB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of UDB and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and UDB shall other-
wise agree, UDB shall not incur any debt if, after the incurring
of such debt, the debt of UDB then incurred and outstanding would
exceed four times the capital and surplus of UDB. For the purpose
of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by UDB maturing
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by UDB.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification


﻿-6-
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement, on the date and
to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
' date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
ei,-ered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is out-
standing.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Uganda Shillings debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable in Uganda for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "debt of UDB" means the total amount of debt
of UDB excluding debt referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this
Section.
(e) The term "capital and surplus of UDB" means the aggre-
gate of (i) the total unimpaired paid-in-capital, sarplus and
free reserves of UDB; and (ii) such amount of any other loan
which the Association may determine to be included in the capital
and surplus of UDB.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and UDB shall other-
wise agree, UDB shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than
deposits) having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.05. UDB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Uganda Shillings) used in its
borrowing and lending operations.
Section 3.06. UDB shall take all steps necessary to increase
its authorized capital to one billion five hundred million Uganda
Shillings (Ush 1,500,000,000).


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and UDB shall cooperate
fully to ensure that the purposes of Part A of the Credit will be
accomplished.   To that end, the Association and UDB shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress of Part
A of the Project, the performance by UDB of its obligations under
this Agreement and the UDB Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of UDB and
other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b) UDB shall furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn in respect of Part A of the Project, the Investment
Enterprises,   the  Investment   Projects,   the   Sub-loans   and
Investments under Part A of the Project and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account for its purposes of Part A of the Project, UDB
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Investment
Projects under Part A of the Project, their costs and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by UDB
and the Association of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment if the purposes of Part A of the
Credit.
Section 4.02. UDB shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of Part A of the Credit,
the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by UDB
of its obligations under this Agreement or the UDB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICIE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of UDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify UDB of this event and, upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue   in   full   force  and   effect   notwithstanding   any
cancellation or suspension under Article VI of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For UDB:
Uganda Development Bank
P.O. Box 7210
Kampala
Uganda
Cable address                      Telex:
DEVBANK                             61103
Kampala
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by UDB may be taken or executed by its
General Manager, or by such other person or persons as the
General Manager shall designate in writing, and UDB shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Colombia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
On-lending Terms and Conditions for Sub-loans to
Investment Enterprise
1.   Interest rate:      At  least   14% per annum, subject     to
adjustment   in   accordance   with   the
provisions   of  Section   4.02  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   Foreign Exchange    1% per annum on the principal amount
Risk Fee:      of Sub-loan withdrawn from time
to time.
3.   Amortization:       Maximum   of  15   years,  including   an
appropriate period of grace.
4.   Maximum Total
Sub-loan or
Investment
in any one
Investment
Enterprise:    $4,000,000 equivalent.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 A '
FOR SECRETARY


