                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001255




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        Loan No. 7444-MOR

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF
                        US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT
                             (EUR 76.2 MILLION)

                                          TO

                         THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                        FOR A

               WATER SECTOR POLICY DEVELOPMENT LOAN



                                 October 30, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective October 28, 2009)

                        Currency Unit = Morocco Dirham
                              1.00 MAD = US$0.12
                             US$1.00 = 7.72 MAD

                                  FISCAL YEAR

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD      Agence Française de                 MAEG      Ministry of Economic and General
         Développement                                 Affairs
AfDB     African Development Bank            MATEE     Ministry of Regional Planning, Water
                                                       and Environment (Ministère de
                                                       l'Aménagement du Territoire, de
                                                       l'Eau et de l'Environnement)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy         MDH       Million Moroccan Dirham
                                             MEMEE     Ministry of Energy, Mines, and Water
                                                       and Environment (Ministère de
                                                       l'Energie, des Mines, de l'Eau et de
                                                       l'Environnement)
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability    MFP       Ministry of Finance and Privatization
         Assessment
CIE      Interministerial Water              MI        Ministry of Interior
         Commission (Commission
         Interministerielle de l'Eau)
CSEC     High Council on Water and           MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure
         Climate (Conseil Supérieur de                 Framework
         l'Eau et du Climat)                           (Cadre de dépenses à moyen terme)
CPCSEC   Permanent committee of the          NIWCP     National irrigation water conservation
         CSEC (Comité Permanent du                     plan
         CSEC)
CWF      Commissariat for Water and          NPWC      National plan for watershed
         Forestry (Haut Commissariat aux               conservation
         Eaux et Forêts et de Lutte Contre
         la Désertification, HCEFLCD)
DPL      Development Policy Loan (Prêt       NRW       Non Revenue Water
         de Politique de Développement,
         PPD)
EIB      European Investment Bank            OBA       Output Based Aid
EU       European Union                      ONE       National Electricity Board (Office
                                                       National d'Electricité)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product              ONEP      National Water Supply Board (Office
                                                       National de l'Eau Potable)
GFMIS    Government financial                ORMVA     Regional Irrigation Agency (Office
         management information system                 régional de mise en valeur agricole)
GOM      Government of Morocco               PER       Public Expenditure Review
IBRD     International Bank for                   PDAIRE     Water Basin Plan
         Reconstruction and Development
IMF      International Monetary Fund              PESW       Programmatic economic sector work
                                                             (Programme d'Appui Pluriannuel,
                                                             PAP)
INDH     National Human Development               PM         Prime Minister
         Initiative (Initiative nationale de
         développement humain)
IWRM     Integrated water resources               NSP        National Sanitation Program
         management                                          (Programme National
                                                             d'Assainissement)
JBIC     Japanese Bank for International          PNE        National water masterplan (Plan
         Cooperation                                         National de l'Eau)
KFW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau           PSP        Private sector partnership
LDP      Letter of Development Policy             RBA        River Basin Agency (Agence de
                                                             Bassin Hydraulique, ABH)
LSI      Large scale irrigation                   RWS        Rural water supply
MAD      Moroccan Dirham                          SEE        State Secretariat in charge of water
                                                             (Secrétariat d'Etat chargé de l'Eau)
MADRPM   Ministry of Agriculture, Rural           SEEE       State Secretariat in charge of water
         Development and Fisheries                           and environment (Secrétariat d'Etat
                                                             chargé de l'Eau et de
                                                             l'Environnement)
MAPM     Ministry of Agriculture and              WSS        Water supply and sanitation
         Fisheries




                         Vice President:       Shamshad Akhtar
                       Country Director:       Mats Karlsson
                        Sector Manager:        Francis Ato Brown
                      Task Team Leader:        Pier Francesco Mantovani
                      ICR Team Leader:         Alexander Bakalian
                         THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                  WATER SECTOR POLICY DEVELOPMENT LOAN


                                                   CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 8 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 24 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24 
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 29 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 30 
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 31 
Annex 2. Government's Reform Program in 2006 ....................................................... 33 
Annex 3. ICR Results Matrix for the Morocco Water Sector DPL ............................. 36 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 56 
Annex 5. Government of Morocco's Policy Letter dated December 19, 2006 ........... 67 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 74 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          First Water Sector
Country:                Morocco                 Program Name:             Development Policy
                                                                          Loan
Program ID:             P095840                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-74440
ICR Date:               10/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MOROCCO
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 105.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/20/2005     Effectiveness:                              08/13/2007
Appraisal:            10/16/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/01/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007       12/31/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                  45                  45
Irrigation and drainage                                                33                  33
Sewerage                                                               22                  22


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                   17                  17
Other public sector governance                                         17                  17
Pollution management and environmental health                          16                  16
Rural services and infrastructure                                      17                  17
Water resource management                                              33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                         Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Francis Ato Brown                     Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan
Program Team Leader:       Alexander E. Bakalian                 Pier Francesco Mantovani
ICR Team Leader:           Alexander E. Bakalian
ICR Primary Author:        Isabelle T. Fauconnier


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1. Improved governance, financing arrangements, and policy coordination in the water
sector.


                                                ii
  2. Enactment of integrated water resource management towards sustainable water uses.
  3. Enhanced service, asset management and usage productivity in irrigation.
  4. Better access to water and sanitation service, and increased wastewater treatment
capacity.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                   Interministerial Water Commission (CIE) formulates GOM priorities on key
Indicator 1 :
                   sector programs, and allows improved coherence of sector policies.
                                           CIE convenes at
                                           least twice a year,
                                           and its decisions
                                           promote efficient
                   Interministerial Water
                                           implementation of
                   Commission (CIE) not
Value                                      GOM's sector
                   effective. Absence of
(quantitative or                           policy based on a
                   Medium Term
Qualitative)                               unified strategy.
                   Expenditure
                                           All GOM-
                   Framework.
                                           implemented water
                                           sector programs
                                           operate under a
                                           MT.
Date achieved      01/01/2006              01/01/2010
                   Although the CPCSEC's executive power is to be enhanced through the Prime
Comments
                   Minister's chairmanship, it is uncertain whether the intended inter-ministerial
(incl. %
                   policy coordination and resource allocation functions of the CIE will be
achievement)
                   preserved within the CPCSEC.
Indicator 2 :      Improved sector organization in place.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           The current state of advancement of the study on reorganization options and
(incl. %           reported limited level of interministerial participation do not provide sufficient
achievement)       indication on the potential achievement of this outcome.
                   Increased share of public expenditure allocated to WSS access development,
Indicator 3 :
                   resource conservation and protection programs, as programmed.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)


                                                 iii
Date achieved
                   Based on summary figures provided by the MFP, the share of public
Comments
                   expenditures in the water sector (state budget only) allocated to WSS access
(incl. %
                   development, resource conservation and protection programs has increased
achievement)
                   from 19% in 2007 to 26% in 2009.
                   Number of River Basin Plans (PDAIRE) debated and approved by River Basin
Indicator 4 :
                   Committees.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                   There are 9 PDAIREs currently being finalized, and two more currently being
Comments
                   developed. The planning committees of certain RBAs are involved in the
(incl. %
                   elaboration of the PDAIRE, but the River Basin Committees are not, as they
achievement)
                   are not yet functional.
                   Percentage of potential water charges collected by River basin Agencies, and
Indicator 5 :
                   percentage of charges collected applied to project co-financing.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                   Data provided do not allow for the evaluation of this indicator. However, an
Comments
                   overall increase is observed in the amounts billed and collected by the RBAs
(incl. %
                   between 2006 and 2007, and is expected to increase at a higher rate in 2008
achievement)
                   and 2009.
Indicator 6 :      Number of discharge points permitted and monitored.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           By July 2008 (no recent data provided) no RBA had initiated regulation of
(incl. %           polluting effluents. However, it is noteworthy that all RBAs are currently
achievement)       conducting an inventory of disposal sites.
Indicator 7 :      Groundwater management strategy and plan submitted to CIE.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                   A national groundwater management strategy was presented to CIE in Dec.
Comments
                   2008. Data provided do not allow quantification of aquifer recovery trends
(incl. %
                   and quality. The aquifer regulation process is making slight progress but faces
achievement)
                   many constraints.
Indicator 8 :      Increase in the agricultural area equipped with efficient irrigation systems.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           The areas equipped with efficient irrigation systems have increased by 22%



                                                iv
(incl. %           between 2006 and 2008.
achievement)
                   Increased proportion of ORMVAs operation and maintenance (O&M)
Indicator 9 :
                   expenses covered by irrigation water revenues.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Coverage of O&M expenses has increased from an average across all
(incl. %           ORMVAs of 65% to 72% between 2005 and 2009, and is expected to reach
achievement)       98% by 2011 with planned twice-yearly tariff increases.
Indicator 10 :     Improved efficiency of irrigation networks in public irrigation perimeters.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           As currently -somewhat imperfectly -measured (volume billed/volume
(incl. %           distributed) efficiency has increased from 82% to 83% between 2006 and
achievement)       2008.
                   Bid process progress for operations outsourcing on a large scale irrigation
Indicator 11 :
                   perimeter.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Consultants have begun to study PPP options for five ORMVAs. The
(incl. %           Government has adopted a strong pre-PPP stance and is accelerating actions in
achievement)       this direction.
                   Improved Rural Water Supply access rate and service sustainability in rural
Indicator 12 :
                   areas.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Access to water supply service in rural areas has increased from 62% in 2006
(incl. %           to 87% in 2009 (ONEP figures). There is insufficient information to assess
achievement)       whether service sustainability has improved.
                   Funds committed to pollution control compatible with plans towards 60%
Indicator 13 :     abatement of urban discharge loads by 2020 (or as per National Sanitation
                   Program).
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                   The NSP has been funded since 2007 at the expected level of commitment.
Comments
                   Pollution abatement remains one of two principal objectives, and medium
(incl. %
                   term goal in 2008-2012 NSP action plan is to reach 34% pollution abatement
achievement)
                   by 2012.



                                                 v
                   Improved WSS service access and sustainability for urban and peri-urban
Indicator 14 :
                   households.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                   GPOBA-funded pilots to test performance based subsidy for service expansion
Comments
                   in Casablanca, Meknes and Tangiers have shown promising results and
(incl. %
                   discussions are in progress to scale up this approach, into a national strategy in
achievement)
                   support of INDH objectives.
Indicator 15 :     Urban Water Supply and Sanitation service benchmarking system in place.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           A benchmarking system is now being used by the Régies. This result is only
(incl. %           partially achieved as the participation of ONEP and all WSS operators is
achievement)       essential to a meaningful national benchmarking effort.
Indicator 16 :     Increased number of public operators accountable through service contracts.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           The number of operators accountable through service contracts has not
(incl. %           changed since the onset of this operation, but two pilots are to be implemented
achievement)       by 2010.
Indicator 17 :     Tariff structure reform completed and tariff regulation reform engaged.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %           There has been no action taken regarding tariff structure reform since 2006.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                     Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                  approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                      Target Years
                   Number of CIE annual meetings. [Other PDO1 Intermediate Outcome
Indicator 1 :      Indicators are listed as milestones in DPL Matrix, measured annually by
                   output criteria/values].
Value
(quantitative or   1                        2
Qualitative)



                                                 vi
Date achieved      01/01/2006                01/01/2008
Comments
(incl. %           The CIE met only once after loan signature.
achievement)
                   Enactment of "Contrat-Plans" to rule river basin agency performance
Indicator 2 :      obligations [Other PDO2's IOI are listed as milestones in DPL Matrix, tracked
                   annually by output criteria/values]
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   A number of contrat-plans have reportedly been developed and are currently
(incl. %
                   being reviewed by the Ministry of Finance.
achievement)
                   Enactment of "Contrat-Plans" to rule public irrigation agency (ORMVA)
Indicator 3 :      performance obligations. [Other PDO3's IOI are listed as milestones in DPL
                   Matrix, tracked annually by output criteria/values]
Value
(quantitative or                                                              2 contrat-plans
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                 12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %           Draft CPs are ready for two pilot ORMVAs (Haouz and Gharb).
achievement)
                   Preparation, validation and adoption of tariff setting reform strategy and
Indicator 4 :      associated legal texts. [Other PDO4's IOI are listed as milestones in DPL
                   Matrix, tracked annually by output criteria/values]
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           The last tariff structure adjustment dates back to 2006, and encountered
(incl. %           significant social opposition due to poor design, timing and combination with
achievement)       inclusion of 7% VAT in water bills.



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2007            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 vii
1. PROGRAM CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
(This section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., Program Document/ISR,
not evaluative):
This implementation completion report (ICR) describes the results of the Water Sector
Development Policy Loan (Water Sector DPL). The DPL was designed as the first of a series of
programmatic lending operations spanning four years in support of Morocco's water sector
reforms. The series was halted after the first DPL as certain key triggers for a second DPL were
not achieved by April 2009, 24 months after loan effectiveness.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Overview. Since independence, Morocco's water policies had focused on securing scarce and
unevenly distributed resources for urban and agricultural needs, through the development of dams,
large scale irrigation perimeters, and urban water supply systems. While creating solid
infrastructure and capable albeit fragmented institutions, this supply-driven focus also led to
neglecting demand management policies and parallel investments in resource conservation and
protection, water supply in rural areas, and sanitation and pollution control. For all its infrastructure
achievements, the sector faced pressing challenges, documented as early as the mid 90's, including
large scale degradation and depletion of water resources, substantial gaps in water supply and
sanitation coverage, and generally inefficient water usages. Such water-related constraints
contributed to limiting economic and social development opportunities across Morocco. In a
context of growing budgetary restraint, severe climate change impacts, free-trade pressures on
industry and agriculture, and a new emphasis on reducing inequalities in access to service, water
sector modernization was high on the Government's agenda.

Starting in 1995 with the promulgation of the Water Law, the Government of Morocco (GOM) had
sought to foster better resource management and protection, as well as improved access and
efficiency in infrastructure service, but reform progress had been slow. Building on three decades
of water project partnerships and renewed policy dialogue since 2002, in October 2005 GOM and
the Bank identified a Water Sector Development Policy Loan (DPL) to sustain water reforms.
GOM confirmed that the reform program would seek advances in sector governance, resource
management, irrigation, and water supply and sanitation (WSS), while ensuring continuity with
previous sector reforms and adjustment operations.

Macroeconomic and Social Context. Water reform was part of an overall GOM agenda of
structural reforms including the privatization of telecommunications, housing sector reform and
financial sector reform. These were combined with targeted social strategies to combat poverty and
improve indicators in health, education and access to basic services, such as the INDH (National
Human Development Initiative), the PAGER (Rural Water Supply Program), a health insurance
scheme and education charter programs. Unemployment continued to afflict youth and those
holding diplomas despite significant overall gains (from 13.6% in 2000 to 9 % in 2006). Although
on the decline, poverty remained much higher in rural than urban areas, exacerbated by
vulnerability to droughts. Access to potable water had increased dramatically over a decade, and
indicators in housing and education were also showing marked improvements.

The growth in the GDP had been volatile and low, averaging less than 3 percent in the preceding
fifteen years, due to insufficient diversification in the economy and to persistent volatility in the
drought-vulnerable agricultural sector. Yet a modest recovery was on its way as new sectors such
as construction, transport, communications, electricity and water gained dynamism. The growth in
the GDP was expected to reach an exceptional rate above 7 percent in 2006 due to an extraordinary
agricultural year, progress in productivity-enhancing reforms, infrastructure development and sound

                                                  1
macroeconomic balances. In short, the medium term macroeconomic outlook was positive,
assuming continuation of sound policies and deepened structural reforms through the transition to a
new Government in 2007.
Water Sector Issues. Scarcity and degradation of water resources had reached concerning levels,
making demand management, pollution control and the completion of integrated water resources
management (IWRM) reform, urgent policy priorities as part of a rational climate change
adaptation strategy. While 90% of economically accessible surface resources were already dammed,
availability of per capita supplies was fast declining in a number of key basins, due to population
and demand growth. This situation was compounded by signs of climate change, such as a 30%
drop in precipitations since 1970 along with more frequent droughts and floods. A well developed
irrigation sector was faced with chronic shortage of surface water supplies, leading to fast growth of
uncontrolled groundwater withdrawals. Morocco was further confronted with large scale
degradation of environmental water quality. Only about 5% of urban effluents were treated before
discharge, which, combined with industrial discharges, agricultural drainage, erosion and saline
intrusion, contributed to contamination of key water bodies. The above-mentioned policy priorities
were consistent with the vision of the 1995 Water Law intended to bring about integrated,
participatory and decentralized water resources management. Yet enactment of this modern law
was incomplete and ineffective, in part due, until 2002, to insufficient political will in support of
demand management, decentralization, and user-pays/polluter-pays principles.
Opportunities also existed for higher returns on irrigation, including more efficient on-farm
irrigation practices, enhanced productivity applications, and better performing irrigation services.
Irrigation is crucial for Morocco: at the time of appraisal it contributed 7% of GDP and 50% of
Morocco's agricultural added value, generated over 75% of Morocco's agricultural exports, and
provided jobs to 50% of the rural labor force. Irrigation also represented 85% of water usage,
applied to 1.6 million hectares, of which 700,000 ha were part of nine large scale irrigation (LSI)
schemes, operated by public agricultural development agencies (ORMVA). Despite volumetric
pricing and recent tariff increases, ORMVAs suffered from a combination of poor cost-recovery
and neglected asset management, which led to: i) unreliable service to farmers, ii) the decay of the
country's irrigation infrastructure, and iii) a substantial net drain on GOM's budget. ORMVA
reform, with separation of irrigation and extension activities was widely considered as overdue, and
a consensus was emerging on selected opportunities to contract water operations through private
sector partnerships (PSPs). The potential for water conservation was also high and largely
untapped, as inefficient on-farm practices were not regulated, and less than 10% of LSI systems
rely on sprinklers or drip irrigation. Aggressive incentives for technology conversion were needed
to jump-start water conservation, achieve "more crops per drop", and mitigate exposure of farmers
to water shortages. It was also recognized that while irrigation reform was crucial to promote water
conservation and higher returns in agriculture, these outcomes remained largely dependent on
broader agriculture, land and trade reforms, which affect water usage and agricultural productivity.
Persisting gaps in water supply and sanitation (WSS) service coverage and near-absence of
pollution control called for public-good infrastructure programs, backed by increased budget
support and optimized financing strategies. Morocco featured a sophisticated and complex WSS
sector with relatively well performing operators, a strong private sector presence, the prevalence of
multi-sector utilities in larger cities, and bulk potable water production entrusted to a national water
supply agency (ONEP). A distinct feature of Morocco's WSS sector was the virtual absence of
governmental subsidies: overall, the sector was held to be almost entirely self-financed through
tariffs, beneficiary contributions, urban-to-rural cross-subsidies, and cross-subsidies from electricity
distribution. While this had supported operators' financial health, it had not promoted investment
by the thirteen municipal utilities and four private concessions into developing wastewater
treatment, expanding services to lower-income or less densely populated areas, perceived as


                                                  2
yielding lower returns, nor into the renewal or upgrade of aging assets. In parallel, the national
utility, ONEP, was also encountering financing difficulties with its own massive infrastructure
development mandate for rural water supply. The cross-subsidization model was beginning to
challenges in terms of equity in service delivery, lack of transparence and distorted incentives that
contributed to uncompetitive water prices and threatened the financial stability of the entire sector.
Major service coverage gaps continued to exist between urban, peri-urban and rural areas. Access
to potable water in rural areas (61%) remained low by regional standards. Sanitation service was
less well developed than water supply, and wastewater treatment was the exception. Filling the
service gap had become a policy focus, and GOM goals included quasi-universal WSS coverage
and substantial pollution abatement capacity. The Bank's appraisal stated that these objectives
would require moving away from largely unregulated cross-subsidization and toward new focused
financing strategies, including capital grants, along with more efficient tariffs, cost optimization,
targeted fiscal levies and exemptions and new private sector partnerships (PSPs).
Institutional and governance constraints. Morocco's water sector institutions, though equipped
with superior technical resources, were not configured for efficiency, impairing optimal policy
integration and reform progress. The 2004 Sector Policy Note found that reform inconsistencies
were linked to: i) insufficient policy coordination; ii) non-strategic public expenditure allocations;
iii) conflicting policy and operating interests; iv) uneven disclosure and performance accountability;
and v) weak stakeholder participation. Policy-making for local water management issues was
centralized at the state level with strong supply-driven legacies. Conflicting operating interests and
poor allocation of policy-making responsibilities considerably weakened the Ministry of Regional
Planning, Water and Environment (MATEE), which had been created in 2002 to push forward
IWRM reform and coordinate sector policies.
A weak regulatory framework slowed gains in service efficiency and equity by Morocco's public
water operators, which needed clearer incentives to increase performance and achieve more
sustainable and equitable infrastructure service. Improved accountability for results and financial
disclosure was needed to optimize investment choices and tariff regulation. In the WSS subsector,
heterogeneous utility statutes and fragmented regulatory roles impaired consistent service
regulation. Despite improvements since 2003, tariffs continued to heavily subsidize consumption
through an untargeted, underpriced first block, whereas connections, priced at marginal cost, were
unaffordable in poor peri-urban settings. Economic regulation gaps and challenges were reviewed
in the Sector Policy Note, the Sector Financing Study, and the Poverty and Social Impact Analysis,
along with potential reform options.
The Government's Reform Record and Agenda. Since the promulgation of the innovative Water
law in 1995, which upheld the principles of integrated, decentralized and participatory water
resource management, and created river basin agencies (RBA) to enact them, GOM had been
pursuing sector modernization reforms towards more efficient water management and service
delivery. Key steps between 1995 and 2004 included:
    The 1995 launch of Morocco's accelerated rural water supply (RWS) program (aka PAGER);
    The multi-sector concessions awarded since 1997 to private operators in Casablanca, Rabat,
    Tangiers and Tetouan;
    The sector adjustment programs engaged with European Union (EU) (FAS-Eau, Facilité
    d'ajustement structurel pour le secteur de l'eau) in 2001, and with the African Development
    Bank (AfDB) (PAS-Eau, Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel de l'Eau) in 2003; these
    pioneering operations experienced strenuous progress, generally attributed to far-reaching bi-
    tranche conditionality, and limited reform leadership and implementation capacity;
    The creation in 2002 of a new Ministry of Regional Planning, Water and Environment
    (MATEE); and
    The 2004 launch of a pioneering greenfield irrigation PSP project in El Guerdane.

                                                 3
In addition, the five-minister CIE (Commission Interministerielle de l'Eau) had been re-activated in
2005, and it had mobilized the Administration on specific objectives, including: i) the issuance of
national plans for sanitation, aquifer management, water conservation and oasis restoration; ii) the
completion of IWRM reform and empowerment of river basin agencies; iii) the reform of WSS and
irrigation tariffs, including strengthened tariff and performance regulation, and iv) the assessment of
new large scale irrigation systems to be developed downstream of existing unused dams. The
Administration largely responded to the challenge, and as of mid-2006 could account for:

    The development, approval and budgeting of a new National Sanitation Program (PNA).
    A 2006 Budget Law with increased budget support for sanitation, RWS, RBAs, and to INDH.
    An important joint MATEE-MFP paper on approaches to resolve incompatible RBA mandates,
    and outlining a path to clarify policy and operating conflicts in the sector.
    New WSS tariff structure (9% average increase and narrower targeting of first block
    subsidies).
    The promulgation of a landmark new law for Public Service Delegation, establishing
    competitive principles and rules for utility service outsourcing, and setting the stage for
    regulation reform.
    The decision to prepare PSP transactions for the development of LSI systems in the Gharb area,
    and for service provision and asset rehabilitation in the Loukkos ORMVA.
    The launch of a National Debate on Water, towards drafting a unified water strategy for
    Morocco.
    The negotiated completion of all pending reform actions under the FAS-Eau adjustment
    program.

Despite these advances, GOM's program remained a sum of departmental agendas, with conflicted
sector leadership and polarized institutional interests in the demand management versus supply
management debate.

    MATEE championed decentralized IWRM, emphasizing demand management, conservation,
    and restoration of water resources over development of marginal new ones. However, under
    MATEE, the Secretariat of Water (SEE) held a narrow yet influential mandate to develop and
    manage water resources, which led it to advocate the sustained development of dam and
    transfer projects.
    The Ministry of Interior, while coordinating INDH implementation, defended local
    governments' interest to improve access to WSS service, develop sanitation/pollution control
    capacity, and to improve service efficiency and accountability. MI was also supportive of a
    regional consolidation of water, sanitation, and electricity distribution operators, spanning
    urban and rural service, as a template for future regional PSPs championing Moroccan private
    capacities.
    MADRPM defended LSI institutional reform aimed at ensuring the sustainability and efficiency
    of irrigation systems.
    CWF saw to the implementation of integrated watershed management plans, as per the
    provisions of the National Plan for Watershed Conservation (NPWC).
    MFP's priority was to seek optimal efficiency, and ultimately a reduction, in public
    expenditures in the sector that would be tied to performance, and enable adjustments based on
    fiscal availability.
    MAEG's priority was to ensure that water service remains affordable and competitive, under
    effective regulation and market forces. On behalf of the PM, MAEG also served a key
    interministerial coordination role.


                                                 4
Identification of the Water DPL in October 2005 served as a catalyst for reform gains and initiatives
throughout 2006. By end of 2006, intense intra-sector consultations conducted by a MAEG-led
steering committee and facilitated in part by the Bank's DPL preparation team, had allowed GOM
to update and detail a comprehensive water sector reform program. The reform program represented
a hard-won compromise among institutions (see detailed program matrix in Annex 3 and policy
letter of Dec 19, 2006 in Annex 5). It emphasized integrated water resource management, demand
management and performance management as guiding principles, and was structured along four
reform tracks, namely:
            Strengthened sector governance and leadership
            Completion and enactment of IWRM reform
            Improved service, sustainability of assets, and productivity of applications in irrigation
            Better access to water and sanitation service, and increased wastewater treatment
            capacity.
Success in each of these highly integrated tracks was linked to gains in sector governance, and often
linked to results achieved in other subsector tracks. The newly revived CIE, with its high-level
leadership and momentum potential, would have an expanded mandate and would be entrusted with
an active role in the implementation of the reform program. The four tracks of the reform program
are outlined below, with specific actions and results detailed in Annex 2:

Track 1. Strengthened sector governance and leadership. Reform provisions under this track
were intended to overcome the fragmentation and legacies that had slowed reform advances, to
increase the consistency of water sector policies, by: i) empowering policy coordination bodies such
as CIE and CSEC; and ii) improving sector organization towards clearer separation of policy-
making and policy implementation roles and increased policy and planning integration capacities,
within MATEE in particular. Adjustments would also ensure better alignment of financial
resources with sector policy priorities, by: iii) developing medium-term expenditure frameworks
(MTEF) for water sector ministries; and by iv) adapting public expenditure allocation in support of
optimized and integrated investment strategies. Accountability for implementation of these
governance-level reforms would rest primarily with MATEE/SEE, MFP, and MAEG, with
arbitrages by the Prime Minister and the CIE.

Track 2: Enactment of integrated water resource management reform. This component sought to
reform the water management and allocation system and to give institutional teeth to the 1995
Water Law, by delimiting the priority missions, establishing sustainable funding, and building the
capacities of river basin agencies (RBA). The Government also sought to induce the launch of
strategic resource management programs, including for aquifer management and water quality
enforcement in selected RBAs. Finally, the longer term process of amending the Water Law would
also be initiated. Accountability for implementation of this component would rest primarily with
MATEE/SEE.

Track 3: Enhanced service, asset management and usage productivity in irrigation. Under this
track GOM would seek to strengthen the regulatory framework to promote water conservation,
productive irrigation uses and more efficient water service by ORMVAs, including through better
cost-recovery, and to increase the role of the private sector. It would also seek to expand and
improve large scale irrigation service, improve cost recovery and increase the sustainability of LSI
assets. MADRPM would hold primary responsibility for implementation of these reforms.

Track 4: Improving access to WSS service, and wastewater treatment capacity (preliminary).
GOM sought to implement regulatory, institutional and tariff reforms that would lead to increased
performance and self-financing by the operators, as well as increased accountability to users and

                                                5
communities. GOM was also committed to allocating increased and sustained aid to what was
deemed low-return, "public good" infrastructure, as part of optimized investment and financing
strategies, towards improved coverage, equity and performance in WSS service and substantial
gains in pollution control capacity. The main responsibility for implementation of these reforms
would be shared between Ministry of Interior, MFP and MAEG.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The rationale for Bank involvement was rooted in renewed policy
dialogue, anchored in recent analytical work1 and in a shared commitment to sustain the reform
agenda in IWRM, LSI and WSS, while providing fiscal support. A Programmatic DPL (P-DPL) or
series of up to four DPLs, designed to provide annual budget support, was thus envisioned to
sustain the implementation of an integrated program of water reforms between 2006 and 2009. The
P-DPL format was preferred over traditional investment loan financing for several reasons:

    a) It would more effectively promote progress in tariff and performance regulation;
    b) It could address far-reaching sustainability issues in ONEP's revenue structure and in sector
       financing;
    c) It could better achieve complex adjustments in the agricultural sector through integrated
       water reform;
    d) Morocco's openness to innovation and ripeness to engage in a continuum of reforms,
       further supported the P-DPL approach;
    e) A P-DPL designed as an annual budget support instrument allowed for the broad inter-
       ministerial scope needed to keep the water reform focused on the "big picture" GOM goals
       of growth and fiscal sustainability;
    f) The governance dimension of the P-DPL-supported reform program was of strategic
       importance to GOM's improved governance, transparency and accountability agenda;
    g) The P-DPL-supported reform program could model better policy coordination and
       expenditure practices for other sectors;
    h) The P-DPL would provide fiscal support to encourage authorities to achieve medium term
       fiscal deficit and debt ratio targets;
    i) Fiscal strengthening of GOM would create fiscal space to finance sector investments or
       help smooth the social cost of other ongoing sector reforms.

In addition, the Water sector P-DPL was included in the 2005-2009 CAS base case scenario, and
would directly contribute to its strategic objective of "Improving water management and access to
water and sanitation services," by working towards the three main water pillar outcomes outlined
in the CAS: a) Improve the legal, financial, and institutional framework of the water sector;
 b) Improve access to service, and [wastewater] treatment coverage in targeted basins; and,
c) Improve technical and financial performance of water sector operators. The P-DPL was fully
coordinated with ongoing work by the IMF and the main donors' to Morocco's water sector, in
particular the EU and the AfDB, to ensure continuity with sector adjustment operations that were
ongoing at the time. Finally, the P-DPL was planned synergistically with other Bank operations
and with ongoing analytical work in the water sector.


1
  The program benefitted from recent sector work, including: i) the Sector Policy Note in December 2004; ii) the Working
Group on Institutional Reforms of Large Scale Irrigation in April 2004; (iii) the Water Supply and Sanitation REDI
review in June 2004; (iv) the Sector Financing Study in June 2006; (v) the Country Economic Memorandum, on
"Fostering Higher Growth and Employment in the Kingdom of Morocco " in 2006; (vi) the Poverty and Social Impact
Analysis (Phase 1) in June 2006, and (vii) the Assessment of Cost of Environmental Degradation in 2003.




                                                         6
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The single-tranche loan of Euro 76.2 million (US$100 million equivalent) was the first in a
program of up to four DPLs (P-DPL or DPL program) designed to provide annual budget support
and sustain the incremental implementation of a broad program of reforms in Morocco's water
sector. The higher-level objective of the program was to enhance the contribution of the water
sector to Morocco's social and economic development. The specific development objectives of
the DPL and of the P-DPL were to enact reform measures conducive to:
   1. Improved governance, financing arrangements, and policy coordination in the water sector;
   2. Enactment of integrated water resource management towards sustainable water uses;
   3. Enhanced service, asset management and usage productivity in irrigation;
   4. Better access to water and sanitation service, and increased wastewater treatment capacity.
These objectives were consistent with the reform tracks of GOM's program, presented above.
The projected benefits of the program included increased efficiency; equity; financial viability,
and environmental sustainability in the water sector.
The 17 Program Development Objectives (PDO) indicators are presented in Table 1 below:
        Table 1. Summary of DPL Program Development Objectives and Indicators
Objective 1:                         Interministerial Water Commission (CIE) formulates GOM priorities on
                    Indicator 1:
Improve Sector                       key sector programs, and allows improved coherence of sector policies.
Governance          Indicator 2:     Improved sector organization in place.
                                     Increased share of public expenditure allocated to WSS access
                    Indicator 3:     development, resource conservation and protection programs, as
                                     programmed.
Objective 2:                         Number of River Basin Plans (PDAIRE) debated and approved by
                  Indicator 4:
Complete the                         River Basin Committees.
Implementation of                    Percentage of potential water charges collected by River basin
IWRM reform       Indicator 5:       Agencies, and percentage of charges collected applied to project co-
                                     financing.
                    Indicator 6:     Number of discharge points permitted and monitored.
                    Indicator 7:     Groundwater management strategy and plan submitted to CIE.
Objective 3:                         Increase in the agricultural area equipped with efficient irrigation
                     Indicator 8:
Improve Service,                     systems.
ensure asset                         Increased proportion of ORMVAs operation and maintenance (O&M)
sustainability and Indicator 9:      expenses covered by irrigation water revenues.
raise use efficiency                 Improved efficiency of irrigation networks in public irrigation
in irrigation        Indicator 10:
                                     perimeters.
                                     Bid process progress for operations outsourcing on a large scale
                    Indicator 11:
                                     irrigation perimeter.
Objective 4:                         Improved Rural Water Supply access rate and service sustainability in
                   Indicator 12:
Improve Access to                    rural areas.
water supply and                     Funds committed to pollution control compatible with plans towards
sanitation, and    Indicator 13:     60% abatement of urban discharge loads by 2020 (or as per National
wastewater                           Sanitation Program).
treatment capacity                   Improved WSS service access and sustainability for urban and peri-
                   Indicator 14:
                                     urban households.
                                     Urban Water Supply and Sanitation service benchmarking system in
                    Indicator 15:
                                     place.
                                     Increased number of public operators accountable through service
                    Indicator 16:
                                     contracts.
                    Indicator 17:    Tariff structure reform completed and tariff regulation reform engaged.

                                                 7
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

No changes were made to the PDOs or indicators during the course of this operation, which
includes the 24 months following approval of the first DPL until the termination of the P-DPL
framework due to lapsed triggering of the second DPL.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The chosen policy areas corresponded to the four program objectives, which also matched the
GOM's four water sector reform tracks:

    1.   Governance and institutional strengthening in the water sector;
    2.   Integrated water resources management;
    3.   Irrigation sustainability and efficiency;
    4.   Expanded access to water supply and sanitation services and expanded wastewater
         treatment.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

No changes were made to the policy areas during the course of this operation.

1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

None.

2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)
The Morocco Water DPL programmatic series featured an unusual breadth and depth of sectoral
reforms (governance, resource management, irrigation and water supply and sanitation). The
DPL program matrix (see Annex 3) consisted of key actions excerpted from GOM's even larger
reform program matrix. A dozen actions were retained as agreed prior actions or triggers for each
loan in the series, in addition to the required maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework.

The verified achievement of agreed prior actions in 2006 allowed for the first operation to
become effective and for the loan amount of Euro 76.2 million to be disbursed in May of 2007
(see Table 2). The intense multi-actor policy dialogue during preparation, culminating in the
implementation of these actions was a significant achievement that provided testimony of the
government's high level of commitment to the program. The actions were substantial in that they
laid the legal and/or executive groundwork to allow subsequent policy measures to go forward in
all of the aforementioned sub-sectors.

The programmatic nature of the DPL series implied that successive operations were to occur at
maximum intervals of 20 months. However, the series did not materialize beyond the first
operation as certain key triggers in the "Governance" and "IRWM" tracks towards the negotiation
of a second DPL remained unmet 24 months after the onset of the first (see Table 3 below). The
Bank team worked over the course of several missions with the GOM's DPL steering committee
to assist in accelerating movement on these policy actions. In July 2008, the Bank team

                                                8
encouraged GOM to request a time extension in order to be able to achieve the agreed trigger
actions. However, GOM did not choose to pursue this path. Section 2.2 below presents a
discussion of factors during implementation that affected program outcomes.

The ICR Results Framework Matrix for the DPL shown in Annex 3 presents the full set of agreed
objectives, policy actions, triggers and outcome indicators for this operation, along with the
assessed results.




                                              9
                             Table 2. Prior Actions of Morocco Water Sector DPL 1
                                   Agreed Prior Actions
Governance
1. Adoption of a circular, signed by the Prime Minister, institutionalizing the Inter-        Circular adopted (2006)
     ministerial water commission (CIE), strengthening the role of the commission
     towards enabling it to propose implementation and financing priorities for the water
     sector, and establishing a permanent secretariat for said commission.
2. Submission to the Bank of terms of reference, in form and substance satisfactory to        ToR submitted and accepted by
     the Bank, for the carrying out of a study on the reorganization of the water sector      the Bank (2006).
     with a view to clarifying policy making and policy implementation functions and
     optimizing the integration of sub-sector planning.
Integrated Water Resources Management
3. Establishment, by a circular of the Minister of Regional Planning, Water and               Circular established (2006)
     Environment (MATEE), of the river basin committees for each river basin agency.
4. Publication in the Official Gazette of the joint regulation ("arrêté") No. 1180-06 of      Joint regulation published
     June 12, 2006 of the MATEE, the Minister of Finance and Privatization (MFP), the         (2006)
     Minister of Industry, Commerce and Economic Reform, the Minister of Interior
     (MI), the Minister of Energy and Mining, and the Minister of Tourism, Arts and
     Crafts and Social Economic Affairs, establishing water pollution charges and the
     pollution measurement unit.
Irrigation
5. Amendment, by joint ministerial decision of the Minister of Agriculture, Rural             Amendment promulgated
     Development and Maritime Fisheries (MADRPM) and the MFP, of the decision by              (2006)
     the same Ministers dated May 13, 2002 governing the award of subsidies for the
     upgrading of irrigation systems towards greater water efficiency, with a view to
     substituting the requirement for a withdrawal permit by the requirement for a
     withdrawal declaration.
6. Adoption of the joint regulation ("arrêté") of the MARPM, the MFP, and the MI,             Joint regulation adopted
     abrogating and replacing the regulation ("arrêté") No. 1994-01 November 9, 2001          (2006).
     governing state subsidies for equipping agricultural farms with sprinkler or micro-
     irrigation systems, with a view to raising to 60% the subsidy rate applicable to
     promote the upgrade of irrigation systems towards greater water efficiency.
7. Adoption of the decision to increase the allocation for irrigation works maintenance       Decision adopted (2006)
     of Regional Agricultural Development Agencies (ORMVA) by an amount at least
     equivalent to the additional revenue generated by water tariff increases, by way of
     transferring said amount from the ORMVA's respective operating budgets to their
     respective investment budgets on account of maintenance expenditures.
Water Supply and Sanitation
8. Adoption of the National Sanitation Plan ("Programme National d'Assainissement             NSP adopted (2006)
     Liquide et d'Epuration des Eaux Usées") for the period 2006-2009, and
     establishment of criteria for the allocation and management of subsidies granted
     under said Plan.
9. Enactment of the public services delegation Law No. 54.05 promulgated by Royal             Law enacted and decree
     Decree ("Dahir") No. 1-06-15 of February 14, 2006 ("Loi relative à la gestion            published (2006)
     déléguée des services publics"), and publication in the Official Gazette of the decree
     No. 2-06-362 of August 9, 2006 for the implementation of articles 5 and 12 of said
     Law.




                                                         10
                                Table 3. Trigger Actions towards the negotiation of DPL 2
                            Agreed Trigger Actions                                      Status of execution by April 2009
    Governance
    1. Prime Minister to convene Commission Inter-ministerielle de l'Eau          Not met. The CIE was formally convened only
       (CIE) twice a year, with one session to review sector-wide results         once, in December 2008. CPCSEC2, to be
       and financing needs.                                                       presided by the Prime Minister, is now
                                                                                  projected to be the coordination/consultation
                                                                                  mechanism rather than CIE. No
                                                                                  recommendations were prepared by the CIE for
                                                                                  LdF 2009.
    2.   CIE proposals for priority programs and expenditure to be reflected      Not met.
         in annual Budget Bill Preparation Note.
    3.   Submit the recommendations of the Sector Financing Study to the          Partially met. Results of study were presented
         decision of the CIE.                                                     to CIE, but no ensuing decision has been
                                                                                  adopted.
    Integrated Water Resources Management
    4. Update by-laws transferring responsibility for Public Hydraulic            Partially met. Six by-laws have been adopted,
         Assets (Domaine Hydraulique Public - DPH) to River Basin                 but do not fully respond to reform objectives, as
         Agencies (RBAs), in order to focus RBA mission on resource               RBA mandate remains focused on O&M of
         monitoring, management & planning as well as stakeholder                 hydraulic infrastructure rather than on broader
         participation.                                                           DPH monitoring, management and planning.
    5. Draft adopt and publish decree ruling the allocation of capital            Not met. A draft decree has been prepared and
         grants by RBAs in support of resource conservation and protection        signed by MEMEE and MFP, but SGG
         projects, consistent with other subsidy mechanisms.                      (Government's General Secretariat) now posits
                                                                                  that the allocation of capital grants by RBAs is
                                                                                  the prerogative and a formal attribution of the
                                                                                  RBA Boards of directors3.
    6.   Initiate water quality control enforcement activities in a pilot river   Not met. This action has not been completed
         basin.                                                                   as it is dependent upon a regulatory framework
                                                                                  for quality control being in place.
    Irrigation
    7. Finalize the National Irrigation Water Conservation Plan (NIWCP)           Met. The NIWCP has been completed,
         and submit it to CIE for decision. Allocate adequate public              presented to CIE in Dec 2008, and approved. It
         funding to NIWCP needs for 2008 as programmed.                           has been funded as a priority measure through
                                                                                  the Plan Maroc Vert in the LdF 2009 and will
                                                                                  be renewed in 2010.
    8.   Implement Regional Irrigation Authorities' (ORMVA 4 ) Tariff             Met. A first decree has passed to raise tariffs, a
         Adjustment Plans (TAP) for recovery of sustainable cost of water,        second one is being processed to maintain
         while maintaining a high collection rate of service fees.                increases through 2012 to reach cost recovery.
                                                                                  The Collections rate rose from 76% in 2006 to
                                                                                  82% in 2007, then fell back to 74% in 2008.
    9.  Recruit consulting firm for the detailed study and preparation of         Met. Consultants have already begun working
        bidding documents for the outsourcing irrigation service in a pilot       on 5 studies for 2008-2009.
        perimeter.
    Water supply and sanitation
    10. Effective payment of GOM budgeted subsidies to the Rural Water            Met The PAGER (RWSP) has been fully
        Supply Program (RWSP) in 2007, and allocation of adequate                 funded as programmed.
        public funding to RWS needs for 2008 as programmed. (Annual
        recurrent trigger).
    11. Effective payment of budgeted subsidies for the National                  Met. The NSP has been fully funded since



2
 Comité Permanent du Conseil Supérieur de l'Eau et du Climat (Permanent Committee of Superior
Council for Water and Climate). Please see section 3.2 for details on the projected replacement of CIE by
CPCSEC.

3
    This stance actually supports the reform sub-objective of empowering the RBAs.

4
    Office Régional de Mise en Valeur Agricole.


                                                              11
     Sanitation Program in 2007, and allocation of adequate public     2007 at the expected level of commitment.
     funding to NSP needs for 2008 as programmed. (Annual recurrent
     trigger).
 12. Finalize a strategy and program to correct the WSS service        In progress. Strategy is being prepared and
     connection deficit in poor urban and peri-urban areas. Allocate   expected to be finalized in November 2009.
     adequate public funding to WSS service extension needs for 2008
     as programmed.


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
The major factors affecting implementation were the following:
        A partial loss of the initial strong GOM ownership of the reform program;
        A domino effect caused by a slowdown in the reform program's Governance track;
        An ambitious reform program within a tight timeline.

Partial loss of the strong GOM ownership of the reform program. By several accounts, an
overwhelming majority of water sector actors within GOM during appraisal agreed upon the need
to change the ways in which policy directions were decided and resources were allocated in the
sector. A sea-change was occurring in favor of more efficient and better coordinated water
resources and expenditure allocation among the water sub-sectors. At the same time, a divided
MATEE, conflicting operational interests and overlapping policy-making mandates made certain
measures difficult to agree upon during appraisal. As noted previously, the policy actions agreed
and reflected in the policy matrix were in themselves an achievement, given the prior near-
absence of dialogue and weak coordination among the different sector ministries.

Although the first DPL was ultimately signed, implementation of the programmatic DPL
framework towards triggering the second DPL (DPL 2) faced some slow-down after the
September 2007 elections, which brought a re-shuffle of the ministries in charge of the water
sector, along with a major initiative by the government to elaborate a new National Water
Strategy. Water became one of six key sectors in which the government wished to put renewed
strategic emphasis, alongside energy, health, agriculture, environment and justice.

The MATEE's water and environment attributions were transferred to an empowered SEE, now
Secretary of Water and Environment (SEEE), under the Ministry of Energy, Mines, Water and
Environment (MEMEE). Many of the policy priorities of the previous government, as supported
by the DPL, were slowed down while the a new process of data gathering and analysis
concerning future directions in the sector was launched, with the assistance of external
consultants and under the leadership of SEEE.

While measures relating to irrigation and water supply and sanitation remained actively supported,
those measures relating to the overall water sector governance and to water resources
management at river basin level appeared to be put temporarily on hold.

Domino effect of Governance track slowdown. The slow-down of the governance track also
contributed to slowing the overall program.           The Interministerial Water Commission
(Commission Inter-ministerielle de l'Eau, CIE) was not revived as planned, and no alternative
mechanism was established to fulfill its policy planning and resource allocation functions. As
stated in the program document "Success in each of these highly integrated tracks is linked to
gains in sector governance, and often linked to results achieved in other subsector tracks. The
newly revived CIE, with its high-level leadership and momentum potential, is entrusted with an
active role in the implementation of the reform program." Indeed, in the absence of a revived CIE,
it was difficult to realize the previously expected momentum around the entire reform package,
though some tracks were able to forge ahead.

                                                     12
Ambitious reform program and tight timeline. This was compounded by an ambitious policy
reform program and a tight timeline towards the negotiation of the second operation in the series.
The dense and rich DPL matrix contained 33 policy action measures, 12 triggers for a DPL 2 and
seventeen outcome indicators, requiring parallel actions on the part of five different major
ministries and agencies (SEEE, MAPM, MI, MFP, ONEP) in addition to the MAEG, which
maintained a coordination role. This had appeared ambitious but feasible in a situation of stable
policy direction and continuity of the actors involved, but was now subject to the hiatus of
administrative and key governmental staff changes that accompany a governmental transition.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
Responsibility for the successful implementation of the reform program was to rest with the
Prime Minister's CIE, gathering the five key ministries in the sector, duly relayed by a permanent
technical committee. Day to day responsibility for reform program coordination and monitoring
was entrusted to the DPL Steering Committee (SC), headed by the Ministry of Economic and
General Affairs (MAEG) and including MFP, MATEE/SEE (now MEMEE/SEEE), MADRPM
(now MAPM) and MI as well as ONEP. The SC would ensure progress reporting and schedule
management, action documentation, interdepartmental coordination and proactive corrective
action on non-progress items. The SC would report to the CIE on reform program progress and
needs, and would be responsible for communications with the Bank supervision team.
MATEE/SEE was expected to play a significant role in support of MAEG especially with regard
to CIE-related activities. This arrangement received the highest marks from the "Quality at Entry"
review of the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
On the Bank side, a larger than average supervision budget was expected to allow the Bank
supervision team to continue to engage with GOM in close policy dialogue and to provide expert
technical support to the SC when needed, with up to three supervision missions per year to review
progress on the P-DPL and prepare a follow-up operation, if appropriate. The decision to
negotiate the second DPL would be based on verified compliance with pre-set triggers, taking
into account overall progress in the government reform program.
Although program outcome indicators were broadly defined by loan signature, many baseline
values (or status, for non-quantifiable indicators) and target values for the indicators were not yet
established, and were to be identified as part of the supervision of DPL1/preparation for the DPL2.
This was not ultimately completed due to the SC's eroded effectiveness, as a result of the
Government's apparent loss of unified interest in working towards the negotiation of a second
DPL within the pre-set timeframe and deadlines.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

Certain agencies within the Government of Morocco have expressed interest in continuing to
partner with the World Bank for support in the water sector, and such a proposal is being studied
as part of the upcoming Country Partnership Strategy. Although the programmatic DPL series,
with its far-reaching intra-sector governance objectives, could not be implemented in a timely
manner, several sector agencies have shown ongoing commitment to a number of this P-DPL's
other objectives by pushing forward key initiatives, such as the national aquifer protection
initiative, the National Irrigation Water Conservation Plan (PNEEI), the National Sanitation
Program, WSS service expansion to rural areas, and the development of a strategy to address
service gaps in poor peri-urban areas. The Bank is currently engaged in the preparation of three
investment loans to support the expansion of service in rural areas, the improvement of the
irrigation services in one key river basin and the implementation of a sanitation program through
a large pilot in 7 small towns.

                                                13
The opportunity for any comprehensive new Water DPL support may however depend on
increased clarity regarding GOM's updated sector reform and development objectives. If
requested, another DPL could possibly be centered on the recently developed water strategy ­
which has yet to be fully disseminated. Should the GOM choose to resume its work on
governance measures over a sustained period of time, the feasibility of a new sectoral DPL could
be assessed.

Another possibility in the current context would be to focus a follow-up DPL on a more limited
scope, time-frame, and institutional reach. For example, it would seem appropriate, given the
outcomes discussed in section 2 below, to assess the feasibility of sub-sector DPLs to continue to
promote the reform tracks related to i) improving water use efficiency in irrigation and/or ii)
expanding access to WSS services to poor and vulnerable households, possibly accompanying the
implementation of the upcoming national strategy to address service gaps in poor areas. Such an
operation could be combined with support to deepen the analysis of tariff, subsidy and regulatory
frameworks for the sub-sectors.

3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

As seen above, GOM has reaffirmed its commitment to the water sector by placing it among its
six major strategic axes, and by preparing a National Water Strategy that is soon to be
disseminated. The objectives of the DPL remain extremely relevant to the current policy
dialogue between the Bank and the GOM, but it is not clear to what extent the new strategy will
pursue the key features of the DPL-supported reform program, such as strengthening sectoral
governance and IRWM. As discussed in section 1, the programmatic Water Sector DPL series
was an embodiment of the 2005-2009 CAS `Water Pillar' priorities. In the upcoming Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS), water is likely to continue to have a well justified high-profile,
although no longer as a stand-alone pillar, but cross-cutting across the newly proposed "Growth",
"Social" and "climate change/sustainable development" pillars.
Improved governance in the water sector towards a more coordinated and efficient allocation of
resources among sub-sectors is still considered a crucial objective by most of the current sector
actors in Morocco, and continues to be among the Bank's priorities for future support. Water
resources management remains a central issue and current policy discourse appears to have
internalized the trend towards water demand management, although significant support also
continues in favor of a supply-driven approach.

Irrigation efficiency and improved access to WSS services clearly retain their importance in
GOM's current approach to the water sector.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Despite the fact that the programmatic DPL series did not continue after the first operation, this
operation allowed significant and on-going progress to be achieved towards two out of the four
PDOs. In particular, the objectives of the reform program track 3, "Improve service, ensure
asset sustainability and raise use efficiency in irrigation", and of Track 4, "Improve access to
water supply and sanitation, and wastewater treatment", are demonstrating significant
advancement. Tangible progress towards the first PDO ­ "Improving water sector governance"
­ has been weak, while modest progress is recorded for the second PDO ­ "Complete the
implementation of IWRM reform".

                                                14
  However, there is a shared sense among most sector actors within the GOM and the Bank that the
  preparation and implementation of the DPL, including substantial debate within GOM, allowed
  lasting gains to be made in terms of deepening the level of analysis and the knowledge base,
  improving clarity and transparency surrounding major issues, and heightening awareness about
  the need to make structural changes towards improved policy coordination and IWRM.

  The program development objectives and expected outcomes were designed with a multi-year
  time frame in mind, during which the government would be empowered to undertake a series of
  actions towards the achievement of the objectives and the realization of those outcomes. The ICR
  offers not only an evaluation of the progress regarding triggers towards negotiation of the second
  DPL, but also of the progress achieved towards the intended outcomes at the end of the
  programmatic series in light of the program objectives. This is with the recognition that over a
  single operation instead of the planned four operations, the outcomes are not yet fully achieved.
  However, it is noteworthy that the GOM is forging ahead with many of the actions prescribed in
  the original reform program (and DPL program matrix) even without the prospect of the second
  DPL.

  The Results Framework Matrix in Annex 3 presents the complete program of objectives, actions,
  triggers, and outcomes indicators, along with a status assessment of each action against the 2007
  targets (and triggers for second DPL negotiation), and an assessment of the progress made against
  each intended outcome and objective. The tables and discussion below offer a close-up of each
  Program Objective and of the progress made on related outcome indicators.

  Objective 1. Improved governance, financing arrangements, and policy coordination in the
  water sector. Sub-objectives consisted of: i) ensuring consistency of water sector policies; and
  ii) aligning financial resource allocation with sector-wide policy priorities.

           Table 4. Indicators and Assessment of Progress towards Outcomes on Objective 1

Objective 1: Improved governance, financing arrangements, and policy coordination in the water sector
Outcome Indicator                        State of achievement
Indicator 1: Interministerial Water      So far this outcome appears uncertain. Although the CPCSEC's executive
Commission (CIE) formulates GOM          power is to be enhanced through the prime minister's chairmanship, it is
priorities on key sector programs, and   uncertain whether the intended inter-ministerial policy coordination and
allows improved coherence of sector      resource allocation functions of the CIE will be preserved within the CPCSEC.
policies.
Indicator 2: Improved sector             This outcome appears uncertain. The current state of advancement of the
organization in place                    study on reorganization options and reported limited level of interministerial
                                         participation do not provide sufficient indication on the potential achievement
                                         of this outcome.
Indicator 3: Increased share of public   There is modest progress towards this outcome. Based on summary figures
expenditure allocated to WSS access      provided by the MEF, the share of public expenditures in the water sector
development, resource conservation and   (state budget only) allocated to WSS access development, resource
protection programs, as programmed.      conservation and protection programs has increased from 19% in 2007 to 26%
                                         in 2009 (excluding new hydraulic infrastructure).

  The main obstacle to achieving this objective has been the absence of progress in sustaining,
  beyond formal establishment, an effective inter-ministerial consultation and decision-making
  forum that would allow for consistent policy-making across sub-sectors, along with efficient
  budget resources allocations according to agreed priorities. One of the main tools to implement
  the reform program goal of improving governance was going to be the Inter-ministerial Water
  Commission (Commission Inter-ministérielle de l'Eau, CIE) empowered with increased mandates
  and schedule.



                                                        15
  However, during the Dec 12, 2008 meeting of the CIE, it was decided at the suggestion of SEEE
  to attribute policy coordination and inter-ministerial consultation functions to the CPCSEC
  (Permanent Committee of the Superior Council for Water and Climate ­ Comité Permanent du
  Conseil Supérieur de l'Eau et du Climat) instead of to the CIE, effectively dismantling the CIE.
  The arguments supporting this action were that: i) The CSEC and its Comité Permanent were
  formally established in the 1995 Water Law, whereas the CIE existed merely through a circular
  signed by the previous prime minister; and that ii) the CIE would perform redundant duties with
  the CSEC and the CPCSEC. It was also decided that the CPCSEC would now be presided by the
  prime minister, in order to confer it appropriate executive power. A decree is now pending to
  implement this decision.

  The Superior Council for Water and Climate (CSEC) was originally conceived as a broad
  consultation forum involving all levels of water sector actors, from users to local government and
  basin agencies to regional authorities to national legislative authorities and government, rather
  than as a venue for inter-ministerial coordination and executive decision-making regarding
  expenditure allocation. As envisioned under the DPL, the CIE aimed to establish more equal
  footing for agenda-setting and deliberations between the ministry in charge of water resources
  management and the key-ministries overseeing water uses and public expenditure, in the spirit of
  more integrated policy development and advancement of overdue demand management reforms.
  Although reviving the CSEC consultative forum will undoubtedly yield indispensable
  contributions to national and local policy-making in the sector, it is a matter of debate among
  sector officials whether the permanent committee of the CSEC can fulfill the CIE's intended
  functions of improving governance at the ministerial level of decision-making and resources
  allocation.

  Objective 2. Enactment of integrated water resource management towards sustainable
  water uses. Sub-objectives were to: i) empower River Basin Agencies (RBA) including through
  the expansion of the water charges system; ii) develop water pollution monitoring; and
  iii) identify and launch a sustainable approach to aquifer management.

           Table 5. Indicators and Assessment of Progress towards Outcomes on Objective 2

Objective 2: Enactment of integrated water resource management towards sustainable water uses
Outcome Indicator                            State of achievement
Indicator 4: Number of River Basin           Modest progress is being made towards this outcome. There are 9 PDAIRE
Plans (PDAIRE) debated and approved          currently being finalized, and two more currently being developed. The
by River Basin Committees                    planning committees of certain RBAs are involved in the elaboration of the
                                             PDAIRE, but the River Basin Committees are not, as they are not yet
                                             functional.
Indicator 5: Percentage of potential         Progress is uncertain towards this outcome. Data provided does not allow
water charges collected by River basin       for the evaluation of this indicator. However, an overall increase is observed in
Agencies, and percentage of charges          the amounts billed and collected by the RBAs between 2006 and 2007, and is
collected applied to project co-financing.   expected to increase at a higher rate in 2008 and 2009.
Indicator 6: Number of discharge points      Progress is uncertain towards this outcome. By July 2008 (no recent data
permitted and monitored                      provided) no RBA had initiated regulation of polluting effluents. However, it
                                             is noteworthy that all RBAs are currently conducting an inventory of disposal
                                             sites.
Indicator 7: Groundwater management          Progress has been made towards this outcome. A national groundwater
strategy and plan submitted to CIE           management strategy was presented to CIE in Dec 2008. Data provided do not
                                             allow quantification of aquifer recovery trends and quality. The aquifer
                                             regulation process is making slight progress but faces significant human and
                                             material resource constraints, in additional to as of yet insufficient
                                             empowerment of RBAs to enforce aquifer protection measures.




                                                             16
  Progress has been observed on 14 actions in the IRWM track of the reform program (see detailed
  results matrix in Annex 3), but only modest advances were achieved on the triggers towards the
  negotiation of the DPL2. While some actions clearly benefitted from sustained support, especially
  those relating to groundwater management, others did not. The actions under the sub-objective
  `Strengthening River Basin Agencies' are the least satisfactory, as RBAs have not benefitted from
  an expanded mandate regarding the monitoring, management and planning of public hydraulic
  assets. RBAs continue to be held responsible for the operation and maintenance of hydraulic
  infrastructure, but they do not have sufficient means (collections capacity, human resources,
  government transfers) to carry out this mission. On the other hand, a secondary sub-objective,
  `Enhanced sustainability of the hydraulic infrastructure stock for resource mobilization' has
  experienced the most progress, followed by `Preservation of aquifers' and `Regulation of water
  resources contamination.' Progress of the latter has been slow and arduous.
  The advances made suggest that there is a certain momentum around water resources
  management in Morocco. However, watershed management has not become more integrated or
  more participatory than before, though this was a key objective of the IWRM track.

  Objective 3. Improve service, ensure asset sustainability and raise use efficiency in
  irrigation. Sub-objectives were to: i) improve on-farm water use efficiency; ii) improve
  ORMVA technical and financial performance; and iii) promote out-sourcing of irrigation service,
  consistent with ORMVA reform vision.
            Table 6. Indicators and Assessment of Progress towards Outcomes on Objective 3
Objective 3: Improve service, ensure sustainability and raise use efficiency in irrigation
Outcome Indicator                           State of achievement
Indicator 8: Increase in the agricultural   There is significant progress towards this outcome. The areas equipped with
area equipped with efficient irrigation     efficient irrigation systems has increased by 22% between 2006 and 2008.
systems
Indicator 9: Increased proportion of        There is significant progress towards this outcome. Coverage of O&M
ORMVAs operation and maintenance            expenses has increased from an average across all ORMVAs of 65% to 72%
(O&M) expenses covered by irrigation        between 2005 and 2009, and is expected to reach 98% by 2011 with planned
water revenues                              twice-yearly tariff increases.
Indicator 10: Improved efficiency of        There is modest progress towards this outcome. As currently imperfectly
irrigation networks in public irrigation    measured (volume billed/volume distributed) efficiency has increased from
perimeters                                  82% to 83% between 2006 and 2008.
Indicator 11: Bid process progress for      This outcome appears likely to be surpassed by 2010-2011. Consultants
operations outsourcing on a large scale     have begun to study PPP options for five ORMVAs. The government has
irrigation perimeter                        adopted a strong pre-PPP stance and is accelerating actions in this direction.

  The program development objective and sub-objectives for this track have been achieved.
  Virtually all of the agreed actions, including triggers towards the negotiation of a second DPL,
  have progressed at a good pace with sustained support from the entering Ministry of Agriculture
  in 2007 (see detailed matrix in Annex 3). The Government's new agriculture strategy, Plan
  Maroc Vert, includes as a priority pillar the enhancement of water conservation measures in
  irrigation through the National Irrigation Water Conservation Plan (NIWCP, PNEEI in French),
  which has been fully funded since 2009 through the Plan Maroc Vert and is expected to remain a
  central priority. Over a period of 15 years, the NIWCP will allow 550,000 ha to be converted to
  water-efficient irrigation, reaching 50% of the area currently equipped for irrigation, at a cost of
  37 billion MAD for physical investments, of which 40% will be covered by farmers and 60% by
  the State.
  The Regional Irrigation Agencies (ORMVA ­ Office Régional de Mise en Valeur Agricole) are
  achieving significant technical and financial performance improvements, with a well-engaged
  Tariff Adjustment Plan that will allow them to reach nearly full cost recovery by 2012, increased
  collections on water services, better coverage of operation and maintenance expenses through

                                                            17
  water revenues, and improved efficiency of irrigation networks. Contrat-plans are ready to be
  implemented for two pilot ORMVAs ­ Gharb and Haouz ­ in order to clarify the responsibilities
  and mutual obligations of the ORMVAs and the State, and to enable the ORMVAs to adopt more
  efficient commercial, technical and financial practices in view of or as an alternative to water
  service delegation under PPP arrangements.
  At the same time, the initiative to promote outsourcing of the ORMVAs' irrigation water service
  through PPP has received enhanced interest from the entering government, resulting in a fast-
  tracked approach for the delegation of this service for five ORMVAs (Tadla, Loukkos, Doukkala,
  Gharb, and Moulouya).

  Objective 4: Improve access to water supply and sanitation, and increase wastewater
  treatment capacity. Sub-objectives were to: i) support and optimize sustainable development of
  rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS); ii) implement the National Sanitation Program (NSP);
  iii) implement solutions to promote WSS service access in poor urban and peri-urban areas; and
  iv) strengthen the regulatory framework towards improving the performance and cash-flow of
  operators, and better take into account consumer interests and expectations.

  Although all of the trigger actions towards the negotiation of a second DPL were not achieved by
  the time of closing, there has been substantial progress towards this objective.
             Table 7. Indicators and Assessment of Progress towards Outcomes on Objective 4

Objective 4: Better access to water supply and sanitation, and increased wastewater treatment capacity
Outcome Indicator                      State of achievement
Indicator 12: Improved Rural Water Significant progress has been made towards this outcome: Access to water
Supply access rate and service         supply service in rural areas has increased from 62% in 2006 to 87% in 2008
sustainability in rural areas          (ONEP figures). There is insufficient information to assess whether service
                                       sustainability has improved, although additional resources have been allocated by
                                       ONEP towards this objective.
Indicator 13: Funds committed to       Significant progress has been made towards this outcome The NSP has been
pollution control compatible with      funded since 2007 at the expected level of commitment. Pollution abatement
plans towards 60% abatement of         remains one of two principal objectives, and medium term goal in 2008-2012 NSP
urban discharge loads by 2020 (or as   action plan is to reach 34% pollution abatement by 2012.5
per National Sanitation Program)
Indicator 14: Improved WSS service Progress has been made towards this outcome. GPOBA-funded pilots to test
access and sustainability for urban    performance based subsidy for service expansion in Casablanca, Meknes and
and peri-urban households              Tangiers have shown promising results and discussions are in progress to scale up
                                       this approach, into a national strategy in support of INDH objectives.6
Indicator 15: Urban Water Supply       Partial progress has been made towards this outcome. A benchmarking system
and Sanitation service benchmarking    is now being used by the Régies. This result is only partially achieved as the
system in place                        participation of ONEP and all WSS operators is essential to a meaningful national
                                       benchmarking effort.
Indicator 16: Increased number of      Modest progress has been achieved towards this outcome. The number of
public operators accountable through operators accountable through service contracts has not changed since the onset of
service contracts                      this operation, but two pilots are to be implemented by 2010.
Indicator 17: Tariff structure reform No progress has been made towards this outcome. There has been no action
completed and tariff regulation        taken regarding tariff structure reform since 2006.
reform engaged.



  5
      A quantifiable indicator was not defined and hence not measured for this outcome.
  6
   Although consolidated nationwide data on urban and peri-urban access to potable water and sanitation services is not
  available, baseline and progress indicators regarding access to a legal service connection are being defined and
  collected in the context of the OBA pilots.



                                                            18
Progress has been considerable in the expansion of access to water supply in rural areas, through
the Rural Water Supply Expansion Plan (PAGER) initiated in 1995 and further strengthened in
2004 with the active involvement of ONEP in its re-development as the Universal Potable Water
Access program (GEP)7. Access to potable water supply has increased from 14% in 1995 to 62%
in 2006 to 87% in 2008, and is projected to reach 91% with the completion of projects currently
underway. The State has sustained its commitment to the PAGER by making budget
contributions (MAD 150 million in 2007 and in 2008, MAD 100 million in 2009), while ONEP
has taken on an increasing share of the investment burden, from less than MAD 200 million
before 2002 to over MAD 1460 million in 2008. In addition, significant steps are being taken by
ONEP to increase the sustainability of RWS facilities under its purview, through improved local
management drawing upon local facilities managers, user associations and contracting of
neighborhood micro-enterprises for O&M, and expanded regional management contracts. GOM
and ONEP also remain proactively involved through Bank -financed Sector Investment Loans in
improving RWS sustainability and financing strategies. However, the delay between 2006 and
2008 in the negotiation of ONEP's contrat-programme with GOM caused a delay in bulk water
tariff adjustments needed by ONEP to cross-subsidize the GEP program.

The National Sanitation Program (PNA ­ Plan National d'Assainissement Liquide), implemented
jointly by MI and SEEE, is widely considered to be a priority for the GOM, and it has been
consistently funded since 2007 at the expected level of commitment: 300 million MAD in 2007,
350 million MAD in 2008 and 500 million MAD in 2009. As part of this program, pollution
abatement remains one of two principal objectives, and the government's medium term goal as
part of the 2008-2020 NSP action plan is to reach 60% pollution abatement by 2020. The plan
aims to equip 260 urban centers with sewerage networks and wastewater treatment capacity to
benefit 10 million inhabitants.

The government is making progress towards the objective of promoting WSS service access in
poor urban and peri-urban areas by: (i) actively supporting a pilot project to demonstrate Output-
Based Aid (OBA) performance-based subsidy as an efficient and demand-driven way to extend
WSS services in peri-urban areas of Casablanca, Tangiers, and Meknes, with funding from the
GPOBA (Global Partnership for Output-Based Aid); (ii) continuing to fund the INDH initiative,
which includes aid to low-income households in peri-urban areas on the basis of priority set by
local INDH commissions, which can decide to allocate a portion of it to WSS-related
investments; and (iii) nearing completion of the national strategy and program to reduce the WSS
connection deficit in poor and peri-urban areas, expected to be published in November 2009. The
OBA pilots have shown promising results and discussions are in progress between GoM and the
Bank to scale up this approach. Currently, no consolidated nationwide baseline or progress
indicators are available regarding access in peri-urban areas, due to the fragmentation of
distribution operators (ONEP, 13 régies, 4 concessionnaires) and the heterogeneity of data
relating to these mostly informally settled areas.

Progress has been much more tentative on the objective of strengthening the regulatory
framework to improve operator performance and better respond to consumer interests and
expectations. Details on the progress of each action are shown in Annex 3. The application of
the service delegation law remains stalled due to its inapplicability to small towns and rural areas,
and requires an exception for ONEP that has not yet been granted through a formal by-law. As a



7
    Programme de "Généralisation de l'Eau Potable" (GEP)



                                                           19
result, no new delegated service contract has been signed since the law was promulgated.
Performance-based contracting of operators has only made modest progress with the delayed
signature of ONEP's contrat-programme with the State, in 2008.

Although limited regulatory measures are being discussed internally at MI, with the possible
constitution within MI of a Regulatory department, there is no consultation among the diverse
WSS actors to elaborate a full-fledged regulatory framework. The national benchmarking project
has been adopted and reportedly enhances the transparency of operator performance, but the fact
that it does not include ONEP considerably weakens its potential contribution to a national
regulatory effort.

GOM's motivation to engage in tariff reform appears greatly dampened by the difficult reception
of the partial restructuring and tariff increase made in 2006, which occurred concurrently with the
inclusion of the 7% VAT in the water bill (later further increased to 14%) and the collection of
several months of arrears by some operators. The tariff increase and social tranche adjustment
alone were responsible for a 62% increase in the water bill of households consuming 8m3
monthly. This had resulted in significant social unrest, strongly suggesting that future tariff
reform must take into account the impact of structure adjustments and increases on poor and
vulnerable households. The DPL-supported PSIA study (Phase II) which was completed in 2008,
provides the government with key analytical elements that can be incorporated into the design of
more efficient tariffs and subsidies that also promote improved access by the poor and vulnerable.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Although the originally planned programmatic series was halted due to an excessive lag in the
execution of certain key triggers, progress was achieved on a number of policy actions, and the
government appears to remain interested in many ­ though not all ­ of the reform goals supported
by this operation. The DPL's Program Development Objectives have retained their relevance to
the current status of the water sector in Morocco, although the governance-related goals may not
be a top priority for the current administration. Advances made on several fronts detailed above
appear to continue to progress even in the absence of a second and third DPL. In view of the
achievements made or not made under each individual reform track, and discussed in detail in
section 3.2 above, the ratings for each track can be summarized as follows:
Track 1. Governance:                                     Moderately unsatisfactory
Track 2. Integrated Water Resources Management:          Moderately unsatisfactory
Track 3. Irrigation efficiency:                          Highly satisfactory
Track 4. Water supply and sanitation:                    Moderately satisfactory

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The DPL preparation process and its implementation provided key support and impetus for a
number of initiatives with direct impacts on poverty reduction:
        New direct investment supported by the reform program for the expansion of WSS
        services to rural, poor and peri-urban areas contributes directly to improving living
        conditions, health outcomes, educational opportunities and economic productivity of poor
        and vulnerable households.

                                                20
        The OBA pilot projects supported by the reform program have allowed three cities
        (Casablanca, Meknes and Tangiers) to test for the first time in Morocco a subsidy for
        access to the service, based on performance and attributed strictly on demand. The pilots
        are also demonstrating ways to structure and strengthen local partnerships for the
        participatory implementation of service expansion in poor unzoned areas.
        Ongoing preparation of the "Stratégie de rattrappage", including new subsidy policies to
        foster better access to services, should open new avenues of policy interventions to
        improve access to low-income households in rural, urban and peri-urban areas.
        Poverty and Social Impact Analyses (PSIA), described below, have significantly
        contributed to the analysis of tariff adjustment and restructuring impacts on poor and
        vulnerable households, and will serve to orient future policy directions in tariff and
        subsidy policy reform.

As part of DPL preparation, phased Poverty and Social Impact Analyses (PSIA) were initiated to
analyze the distributional impacts on the poor and vulnerable of DPL-backed reforms relating to:
i) pricing and subsidies in water supply and sanitation service; and ii) pricing and subsidies in
irrigation towards water conservation. The first phase of these two PSIAs, consisted in a review
and analysis by the DPL preparation team of existing documentation and information. It
highlighted the following issues:

        High collection rates in WSS suggested that tariff structures and levels at the time of
        appraisal, although relatively high on average terms, were generally affordable by the
        users they targeted, including for the connected poor and vulnerable. However, a
        significant concern was that large investment programs in the sector would further drive
        tariffs up in the near future, and that GOM lacked mechanisms to assess the impacts of
        tariff adjustments, especially on the poor and vulnerable.
        Connection charges were unsubsidized and unregulated in Morocco, and due to uneven
        service cost recovery through tariffs, tended to be priced at or above their marginal cost.
        As a result, connection charges generally were very high, especially in unzoned or peri-
        urban areas that are difficult to reach with networks. Connection charges thus represented
        an often unaffordable percentage of the annual income of poor and vulnerable households.
        In the irrigation sub-sector, farmers in water-scarce areas were willing to pay for
        increased water tariffs or to convert to modern localized irrigation provided that this
        results in service quality improvements and productivity gains. However, the ability of
        farmers to afford water tariff increases and/or the cost of transition to modern irrigation
        depended on the size of their farm, their status in regards to land ownership and their
        productivity.
        The main obstacle to successful irrigation reform was the lack of understanding of its
        benefits, confusion over who will gain from it and the limitations in ORMVA governance
        and responsiveness for its implementation.

For the irrigation sub-sector, the study recommended special measures to accompany the reform
process, in order to better define the responsibilities of local and regional stakeholders and to put
in place a clear and transparent financial and legal framework for the implementation of the
reform. It also stressed the need for setting performance targets and objectives for each ORMVA.
Moreover, it highlighted the importance of communicating about the reform to build trust in the
institutions responsible for its implementation. Communication should include guidance to
farmers on how to assess the benefits of the transition at the scale of their farm to create support
and disseminate good practices.




                                                 21
The phase 2 PSIA delved into more depth in the analysis of impacts on poor and vulnerable
households of WSS tariff and subsidy changes implemented in 2006 and further planned under
the reform. The study developed and tested a method to quantify these impacts using data from
the 2001 National Survey on Household Consumption and Expenditures (ENCDM - Enquête
Nationale sur la Consommation et les Dépenses des Ménages). The study confirmed a strong
correlation between poverty and lack of access to WSS services, showing that 80% of households
are not connected. It also highlighted important facts regarding household consumption and
expenditures in WSS, that have a direct bearing on policy formulation: i) the structure of water
consumption is similar across poor and non-poor households, with most households consuming in
the second (8-20m3) tranche, partly because the large household size among poor households
offsets lower per capita consumption; ii) the burden of WSS expenditures is much heavier on
poor and vulnerable households than on non-poor households, and has been aggravated by the
2006 changes in the tariff structures. The study thus showed that subsidy targeting based on
volume using an increasing block tariff is inefficient, as it benefits non-poor households as much
(more in absolute terms) as poor and vulnerable households. It recommended that reform efforts
focus on re-directing subsidies towards the neediest beneficiaries, for example through direct
transfers and through connection subsidies to facilitate expanded access to the service. The latter
is an approach that has since been tested successfully in the OBA pilots in Casablanca, Meknes
and Tangiers. The methodology used in the PSIA 2 study will be replicable with an updated
dataset expected to be published shortly, and should substantially inform not only tariff and
subsidy reform in the WSS sub-sector, but similar reforms in other sectors such as energy.

The OBA approach tested during the GPOBA-funded pilots demonstrated that the use of targeted
subsidies was an efficient way to extend services in poor periurban areas. The OBA nature of the
approach implies that operators rely on demand from beneficiary households and pre-finance
connections. The subsidy is only disbursed after an independent review of the outputs. This
approach improved sustainability as the operators has to carefully assess demand from
beneficiary households and adapt, to the extent possible, its offer to their needs. The GOM and
the Bank are in discussions about how to possibly expand the OBA approach as part of a national
strategy to increase access to WSS services. It is worth noting that ONEP decided to develop an
OBA pilot to extend service provision through house connections in rural areas, through its first
PPP-type extended subcontracting arrangement with the private sector. This follows TA granted
to ONEP by GPOBA.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

As seen in section 3.2 above, institutional changes initiated under the DPL include:

        Institutions (CIE, CPCSEC or any other) to improve high-level sector-wide policy
        coordination and resource allocation have been seriously considered, but have not yet
        been activated;
        The water sector reorganization study is still in progress, there is no indication yet on
        what recommendations may be made and subsequently adopted;
        Only modest progress has been made regarding the strengthening of River Basin
        Agencies, as their means and autonomy to carry out management and planning functions
        remain insufficient.
        The ORMVAs have derived strength from increased financial autonomy and improved
        outsourcing capacities;
        Water Supply and Sanitation institutions are undergoing modest improvements: a
        regulatory accounting model and partial benchmarking for WSS are now in use. There is

                                                22
        a slow but ongoing effort to improve service delegation modalities to improve
        transparency and efficiency. The well-received Bank-supported study on restructuring
        delivery of WSS services yielded recommendations that have been retained, for fast-
        forward implementation of regional consolidation of ONE (Office National de
        l'Electricité), ONEP and régies operations in the Doukkala-Abda region (i.e. Safi & El
        Jadida provinces). A contractual model is being designed, aimed at a concession-
        affermage hybrid.
        However, WSS institutions would greatly benefit from progress in a regulatory
        framework for operators and from analysis regarding the structure of tariffs and subsidies,
        to improve both financial sustainability and the conditions under which access to service
        for low-income households in peri-urban and rural areas can be expanded.

In addition, the following institutional aspects are noteworthy:

Previous fragmentation in the sector has persisted. Shortly after loan effectiveness, SEE was
placed under the new Ministry of Mines, Energy, Water and Environment (MEMEE), and
received executive responsibility for all water resources management matters, including water
sector coordination, as well as the environment, thus receiving the name SEEE (Secrétariat
d'Etat Chargé de l'Eau et de l'Environnement). MAPM retained responsibility over irrigation
matters and the Ministry of the Interior retained its mandate to oversee WSS services, while
ONEP's attributions have not changed8. SEEE's responsibilities include the oversight of water
basin agencies, which previously reported to MATEE. While SEEE continues to give a fair
amount of attention to water resource mobilization efforts, there is reportedly an effort to work
towards water demand management, reflected in the National Water Strategy that was prepared in
2008-2009 by external consultants and overseen by SEEE.

Communication among sub-sector ministries about policy priorities has improved. The
preparation of this operation had the widely extolled effect of fostering unprecedented dialogue
among sector agencies and ministries during the appraisal phase. Many participants within GOM
and on the Bank side noted that never before had such a plethora of actors working in different
domains of the water sector been brought together to discuss synergies, policy directions and
priorities. The dialogue was by many accounts arduous and sometimes ­ as would be expected -
fraught with disagreement, but also marked by a shared determination to bring the process to
fruition, under the leadership of the MAEG. The Bank's appraisal team emphasized how much
this process and the ultimate policy actions and goals reflected in the matrix were led and
established by the various governmental actors themselves rather than pushed by the Bank team,
noting GOM members' strong ownership of the process and of its ultimate policy orientations.

Awareness regarding the need for improved coordination among sub-sectors is heightened.
Despite the fact that the governance objective of the DPL has not been at the policy forefront
under the new water sector configuration, there is a widely expressed opinion among both Bank
staff and many water sector officials in GOM that the break-through round of consultations,
debate and collaboration around water policy reform during the preparation process will leave a


8
   In September 2009 GOM announced its decision to merge ONEP with ONE (Office National de
l'Energie ­ National Energy Authority), thus strengthening the cross-sectoral linkages between water and
electricity generation and echoing the current direction of MI towards delegating and regulating water and
electricity services together as a package, with new consolidation of service perimeters within regional
lines, and outsourcing of services under concession or affermage-type contracts.


                                                   23
lasting mark on the water sector in Morocco. Many are confident that enhanced awareness is
now acquired regarding the essential need for an institutional mechanism to improve coordination
and budgetary resource allocation among sub-sector agencies, and that in time, it will once again
become an indispensable feature of policy reform efforts.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None.

4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate

There is prevalent sense among reform-oriented sector actors that preparation and implementation
process of the DPL led to irreversible, though possibly "latent," benefits that have the potential to
bear full fruit if GOM chooses to incorporate them into the new water strategy. These gains
include the increased awareness among water sector actors regarding the need for improve
coordination, the limits of supply-driven water resources management and the need to develop
water demand management and conservation options. The DPL has allowed the Government to
increase funding for sanitation and water conservation, although this has not yet been
accompanied by moves to assess opportunities for more efficient expenditure in other subsectors.

        The new National Water Strategy reportedly contains encouraging language, but has yet
        to be made public and fully evaluated. The likelihood of CPSEC becoming an effective
        instrument for interministerial resource allocation remains to be seen.
        In the IWRM track, those advances made, even at a slow pace, should provide lasting
        results. These include aquifer protection measures, the fight against soil erosion through
        better watershed management, the legal framework to combat pollution of water
        resources, and the system of charges for water withdrawal and disposal.
        Advances in the irrigation sector have been steady, reaching beyond initially set
        objectives and benefiting from unwavering ministerial support. Development outcomes
        achieved in this track appear very stable.
        Progress in the WSS sub-sector has been slow ­due in part to its complex institutional
        organization which hinders subsector-wide decision-making and coordination - but
        shows promise with several of the agreed policy actions under way or in progress.
        However, the rationalization of the sub-sector will depend crucially on the government's
        ability to successfully re-organize the sub-sector, decide on appropriate service
        delegation mechanisms, establish an effective regulatory framework, and design and
        implement a tariff and subsidy policy that meets both efficiency and social equity
        objectives. Outcomes achieved appear moderately stable.


5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

                                                 24
Strong analytical grounding. The Morocco Water DPL supported an unusual breadth and depth
of reforms in the governance, resource management, irrigation and water supply and sanitation
sub-sectors, which benefitted from a very substantial body of analytical work conducted before
and during preparation. This was the result of a deliberate process by which the Bank had
renewed and deepened policy dialogue with GOM in the sector since 2004 and contributed
several well-received analytical studies that significantly informed the reform design. In
particular, the PSIA I, followed by the PSIA II during the course of the operation is a salient
feature of the Bank's own and Bank-supported analytical work in that has helped to shed
important light on the impact of tariff and subsidy design on the poor and vulnerable, and is
expected to substantively inform future policy dialogue on tariff reform to minimize this impact.
The approach and methodology of the PSIA II are also expected to replicate benefits into GOM
initiatives in other sectors.

Incorporating lessons learned. The Bank team carefully reviewed lessons learned from the
previous CAS, and from the EU and AfDB's experiences with sector adjustment operations, and
reflected them in the Program design:

        Programmatic approaches provide better flexibility to support reforms while managing risk
        Greater attention must be paid to governance
        There is a need to focus on results
        Sector reform measures may be complex and require substantial capacity to be
        implemented
        Technical assistance (including from other donors) must be mobilized to accompany reform
        measures
        Proactive supervision, sustained high-level dialogue and
        Strategic communication with the public is key.

Fostering government ownership of the DPL-supported reform. Faced with proactive and
reform-oriented interlocutors at MATEE, MAPM, MI, MFP and MAEG, the Bank team was
reportedly able to bring extensive technical expertise and experience to the process without
exerting pressure on its client. Departing from Bank DPL practice, the team insisted not to
outline a policy reform matrix at the Identification/Concept Note stage, in order to preserve full
GOM ownership of policy matrix development during preparation. The reform matrix and
ultimately the DPL matrix, were seen as the product of the rich dialogue that was taking place
among a strong coalition of sub-sector actors within GOM. This product received full support
from the Prime Minister through a policy letter authored solely by GOM and confirming the
government's commitment to the reform program before loan signature.

Candid assessment of key risks. At the same time, the Bank team was fully aware that the
strong inter-ministerial pro-reform coalition faced some internal opposition, mainly from actors
representing interests in a more supply-driven approach to water policy. The risk that these
interests might continue to pose significant obstacles was assessed and the Bank team, with the
support of management, decided to go forward with this risk in mind. With the benefit of
hindsight, the statement that "The DPL series is furthermore construed as helpful in limiting the
potential reform slowdown associated with general elections in 2007" appears both clairvoyant
and overly optimistic. Indeed, the reform slowdown materialized, which contributed directly to
shortening the DPL series into a single operation. Yet it seems that the `high-risk, high potential
reward' route was worth taking, in light of the DPL's achievements in terms of quality, depth and
transparency of water sector policy dialogue in Morocco, and of its actual results in certain sub-
sector reforms -- if uneven across sub-sectors - as discussed in section 3.2 above. Even with

                                                25
hindsight, a different route that the P-DPL approaches is difficult to imagine, if Bank support is to
embrace substantial water reforms, which are notoriously difficult and slow to enact due to their
many social, economic and cultural dimensions.

Other key risks foreseen at appraisal and measures towards their mitigation are detailed in Table
8 below:

         Table 8. Risks Assessed during DPL preparation and Mitigation Measures Taken

                       Risks                                              Mitigation Measures
Program delay risks due to complex institutional         Opting for a programmatic approach with built-in
arrangements in the sector and technical and             flexibility, fostering ownership, leadership by the
administrative resource constraints                      Prime Minister-headed CIE, identifying TA needs
                                                         and potential TA funding upfront , and planning for
                                                         close supervision and strategic communication.
All of these mitigation measures appear in hindsight to have been reasonable and to have made the best
use of instruments at hand.
Program underperformance risk, whereby minimal           This risk was deemed manageable due to GOM's
compliance of DPL conditionality would be                genuine ownership of the program, and to the close
achieved while other measures in the reform              supervision process that would evaluate
program would be neglected.                              compatibility of progress with the negotiation of a
                                                         subsequent DPL, with the added option to scale
                                                         down the amount of such loan.
The benefit of hindsight makes it appear overly optimistic to have counted on sustained GOM ownership of
the reform program. However, it was reasonable to count on the instrumentality of close supervision,
which is what happened in practice.
Risks associated with public expenditure arbitrages, This was to be mitigated by strengthened policy and
whereby existing high-level support for large multi- expenditure coordination built into the program, but
year resource mobilization programs would                it was recognized that political arbitrages beyond
continue ahead of other investments in "public           the control of sector actors might continue.
good" infrastructure.
The political arbitrage in favor of resource mobilization infrastructure appears to have continued to exist,
at the expense of water demand management and to the point that policy and expenditure coordination
efforts materialized with much delay (December 2008), with little impact on the reform process, ; .
However, certain `public good' outcomes such as improved WSS access in rural areas were also allowed to
make progress under this political arbitrage.
Risks associated with continued WSS tariff reforms These were to be mitigated with the inclusion of PSIA
and possible ensuing problems with public                findings in tariff reform design, the coupling of tariff
acceptance and political risk.                           adjustments with targeted connection subsidies to the
                                                         poor, using an innovative OBA approach, and
                                                         strategic communication of water value, conservation
                                                         and solidarity messages.
These risks were correctly assessed in light of the social unrest that occurred with 2006 tariff adjustment, and
the proposed mitigation measures remain extremely appropriate and relevant to future tariff reforms, should
the GOM choose to engage them.


Strong QAE Rating. The Quality Assessment Group issued an assessment of Quality at Entry
for this operation in October 2007, with a rating of "Satisfactory". It highlighted the DPL's many
noteworthy features:

         The focused and clear strategic relevance and approach of the program, carved out of a
         more ambitious, broader government program; excellent dovetailing of
         complementarities with donors engaged in the sector (EU, AfDB, GTZ, KfW).


                                                     26
        The PSIA Phase I in WSS increased the DPL's pro-poor focus by drawing attention to the
        untargeted nature of lifeline tariffs in contrast to the absence of subsidies for household
        connection charges.
        Very good dovetailing of the programmatic DPL series with ongoing and proposed SILs
        and the programmatic ESW for the sector, which underpins the reforms.
        Comprehensive scope of the program in terms of addressing policy issues in water
        supply/sanitation, irrigation, and water resources management; and it also tries to expand
        the application of the new policies to producer and user groups that were previously
        evading or excluded.
        The team seems to have taken risks to build coalitions in support of a comprehensive
        program, despite the existence of pockets of friction and resistance. These risks are worth
        taking to achieve reforms that will eventually pave the way for significant improvement
        of sector performance.
        Implementation arrangements involve all relevant agencies.
        The country and sector management were both proactively engaged and provided high
        levels of support in the country dialog.
        There were separate QERs for the DPL and for the PSIA. The peer reviewers were of
        high quality as were their comments, which the team took fully into account.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank supervision team carried out three P-DPL-focused supervision missions between loan
signature in May 2007 and closing in April 2009, and also discussed DPL progress during the
course of missions centered on other water sector operations in progress. During each P-DPL
supervision mission, the Bank team and the program steering committee carried out a thorough
review of the status of each trigger and action with interlocutors from each relevant sub-sector
agency, in order to assess the advances achieved relative to expected outcomes or outputs, and to
identify any factors that could be contributing to lack of progress.

During the early phase of the supervision period, the program experienced a distinctly uneven
progress on the implementation of the agreed reform actions on its various tracks. To the Bank
team, whereas the program had been strongly government-led during the preparation phase, there
was now a distinct sense that it needed to push in order to allow the DPL to make progress along
the agreed timeline. Although the Bank made all the appropriate attempts to keep the DPL
program alive, it recognized the government's prerogative to slow down the DPL program and
respected the sovereign strategic policy-making process that the new government initiated.
During this period, Bank management letters alerted the GOM to the need for urgent progress on
P-DPL triggers, but received no formal answers.

The depth of analysis and candid reporting regarding progress of the operation, and reflected in
the supervision aide-memoires, is noteworthy. The Bank also sustained a high quality ongoing
dialogue regarding sector policy, which was embodied in studies supported by the Bank such as
the study on Flow of Funds in the sector, Poverty and Social Impact Study II and the WSS
Distribution reorganization study.

As noted previously in section 2.3, although Program outcome indicators were broadly defined by
loan signature, many baseline values (or status, for non-quantifiable indicators) and target values

                                                27
for the indicators were not yet established, and were to be identified as part of the supervision of
DPL1/preparation for the DPL2. This was not ultimately possible due to the Government's
apparent focus on developing a new water sector strategy and overlooking the fulfillment of the
agreements towards the negotiation of a second DPL within the established timeframe. To further
strengthen monitoring and evaluation during and after the operation, it would have been
preferable to agree before loan signature on clear monitoring indicators, outcome indicators and
on a system for the Steering Committee to regularly record and report them to the Bank.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance is rated Satisfactory in light of the detailed ratings above for quality at entry
and quality of supervision.         Bank performance at entry was characterized by strong
comprehensive design with solid analytical underpinnings along with the successful fostering of
committed government ownership of the reform program. Bank supervision was rigorous,
continuing in a spirit of active partnership and collaboration, with detailed reviews of progress
and technical inputs to assist in complying with agreed program measures.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The GOM's performance in support of this operation changed markedly between the preparation
phase (2005-2006) and the implementation phase.
During the preparation phase, and through approval of DPL 1, the GOM provided a very
strong level of engagement to identify and design the operation, with all of the sub-sector
ministries actively involved in a very fruitful policy dialogue. The MAEG was mandated to
coordinate the policy dialogue and technical activities around the preparation of the DPL. By all
accounts, it carried out these tasks in an exemplary manner, succeeding in providing both a
coordination and mediation role that was highly respected by all participants. Technical staff in
all of the ministries reportedly provided extremely high quality interface with the Bank team.
In the late stages of preparation, some disagreement surfaced among a few participants on certain
aspects of the proposed reform program and threatened the signature of the loan. However, the
GOM reaffirmed its commitment to the reform program as discussed with the Bank and the first
loan was signed in May 2007.
With the change in government and the re-structuring of the ministry responsible for the sector,
strategic policy directions began to be re-evaluated for the water sector, a normal process for any
entering government. The loss of momentum and the apparent disengagement of the steering
committee over a period of several months caused much uncertainty regarding the future of the
reform program, among the Bank team and among some of the key architects of the program
within the Government.
For many of the reform proponents, including the Bank team, it has been a disappointment that
the governance measures in the reform program were not pursued as originally intended, as these
measures had been the subject of broad consensus among sector actors within GOM itself during
the preparation phase, and were considered a central pillar of the reform program. Indeed, the non
activation by the government of the CIE, and its subsequent dismanteling, created a major
impasse in the reform process.



                                                28
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementation of the reform program was the responsibility of the CIE under the Prime
Minister's chairmanship, gathering the five key ministries in the sector: MAEG, MATEE/SEE,
MAPM, MI, and MFP. Because the CIE was never truly activated to perform this function, and
was in fact deactivated in its December 2008 meeting, it is not possible to evaluate its
performance.
As seen above, day to day responsibility for reform program coordination and monitoring rested
with the DPL Steering Committee (SC), headed by the Ministry of Economic and General Affairs
(MAEG) and including MFP, MATEE/SEE (now MEMEE/SEEE), MADRPM (now MAPM)
and MI as well as ONEP. Although the SC performed its duties capably during the supervision
missions, it appears that it had somewhat lost its mandate to push the reform program forward
and hence exhibited limited impact.
Individual ministries nevertheless made progress on those actions for which they carried a
sustained mandate from the new government. Thus, although the reform was no longer being
implemented by GOM and its designated implementing agency as a full program, participating
agencies were nevertheless able to achieve certain specific actions and to obtain progress towards
a number of outcomes, as discussed in section 3.2 above.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. While the program failed
to reach the second operation, much has been achieved in the period leading up to the closing of
the program. The program had targeted a broad range of activities with a number of players and
some sub-sectors (irrigation and WSS) have clearly achieved and even surpassed their
commitments. In parallel, many sub-sectors have received increased funding from the
government budgets in the period 2007-2009 (e.g. 60% for the irrigation and wastewater sub-
sectors). One of the key difficulties that contributed to the current outcome is the disagreement
that emerged after the loan signing as to the role of the CIE as the apex institution for overall
sector planning, coordination and decision making for resource allocation. When the CIE finally
met in December 2008, a decision was taken to transfer its functions and role to the CPCSEC. It
remains to be seen whether this instance will be able to play the role envisaged for the CIE, with
the same expected impact. The Borrower has also engaged in the preparation of a new water
strategy, which created a wait-and see situation and temporarily diverted the attention of the
Borrower from the DPL. This clearly hampered the implementation of the trigger actions leading
to a second operation.


6. LESSONS LEARNED

The following lessons or themes for discussion and inquiry may be considered for future
operations of this type or with this kind of objectives:
        The full success of such a broadly scoped and substantial reform program as was
        supported through this DPL programmatic series requires that reform ownership remains
        strong among all key actors and sub-sectors involved, and that a strong champion be in
        place to sustainably lead the reform program.


                                               29
        This DPL and the high quality analytical work and policy dialogue around it have helped
        to launch a process of far-reaching changes in the water sector in Morocco. Although all
        of the objectives may not have been achieved, many gains appear to be solidly
        established and may even carry cross-sectoral benefits.
        As a corollary to the above, the DPL preparation, in the opinion of many sector officials,
        provided an unprecedented forum for all key stakeholders to pursue a dialogue on a
        coordinated and comprehensive sector reform agenda and to produce a broadly scoped
        and ambitious reform program. In that sense, it seems that the DPL process has created
        dynamism in the sector which will last beyond the immediate timeframe of this DPL
        operation.
        An ambitious reform program with clear ownership from the Government, albeit with
        tight time lines, is a "high risk, high reward" opportunity that is worth undertaking. Even
        though some of the reform tracks do not end up meeting all the pre-agreed targets, the
        benefits ­ both tangible and intangible ­ could be very significant and worth the risks. In
        this case, for example, the P-DPL - built around an impressive amount of policy actions
        (33), triggers for a second DPL (12) and outcome indicators (17) with no less than 5
        implementing ministries/ agencies ­ has achieved or put in motion a number of reforms
        that would have not been probably launched without the framework created by the P-
        DPL.
        A programmatic DPL series as an instrument for broad policy reform may appear
        difficult to apply for a sector such as water that is historically slow to change, organized
        in a complex manner, and influenced by powerful political interests, it offers a valuable
        opportunity for continued dialogue over a longer period of time. While this current
        operation was not successful to carry over to the second loan, the insertion of a flexible
        mechanism for assessing progress and adjusting for emerging situations may have
        provided the tool for a successful transition to the subsequent loans.
        With the benefit of hindsight, it appears risky to assign reform leadership and
        coordination, and DPL implementation, responsibilities to an entity that has been inactive
        and the existence of which is actually in contention, but that needs to be activated as one
        of the first steps of the program, such as CIE. Yet the CIE was obviously the most
        logical choice to assume sector reform leadership once it would be active. Perhaps this
        slight disconnect might have been smoothed by making the activation and first outputs of
        CIE (e.g. a proposal by CIE to the 2008 Loi de Finances) a prior condition to the DPL1.
        On the other hand, such a step may not have changed the ultimate outcome of the DPL
        given the change in Government.
        The DPL program may have underestimated the time that is required to develop
        consensus around by-laws and decrees and their adoption by the appropriate authorities.
        Because any change to an existing governance structure is bound to be met with
        resistance from those whose interests are at risk, continued involvement of all parties and
        open communications should be maintained at all times.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
(See Annex 4)
(b) Cofinanciers
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


                                                30
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                              Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                 Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Pier Francesco Mantovani    Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist    MNSWA
Hassan Lamrani              Senior Irrigation Specialist            MNSSD
Xavier Chauvot de Beauchêne Water & Sanitation Specialist           MNSWA
                                                                    MNSIF -
Rachid Bouhamidi              Junior Professional Associate
                                                                     HIS
Khalid Boukantar              Program Assistant                     MNSSD
Julia Bucknall                Lead Natural Resources Management     MNSWA
Nabil M. Chaherli             Sr. Sector Economist                  MNSAR
Severine Dinghem              Senior Financial Officer               FEU
Rosa Maria Formiga Johnsson   Consultant                            MNSSD
Maria Ines Fraile-Ordonez     Knowledge and Learning Coordinator    EAPCO
Jose R. Lopez Calix           Lead Economist and Sector Lead        LCSPR
Paul Noumba Um                Lead Economist                        MNSSD
Rory C. O'Sullivan            Consultant                            MNCA4

Supervision
Pier Francesco Mantovani     Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA
Hassan Lamrani               Senior Irrigation Specialist           MNSSD
                                                                    MNSIF -
Rachid Bouhamidi             Junior Professional Associate
                                                                     HIS
 Khalid Boukantar            Program Assistant                      MNSSD
 Meskerem Brhane             Sr. Urban Specialist                   MNSUR
 Julia Bucknall              Lead Natural Resources Management      MNSWA
 Raffaello Cervigni          Sr. Natural Resources Econ.            MNSEN
 Nabil M. Chaherli           Sr. Sector Economist                   MNSAR
 Xavier Chauvot de
                             Water & Sanitation Specialist          MNSWA
Beauchêne
 Zakia B. Chummun            Language Program Assistant             MNSSD
 Rosa Maria Formiga
                             Consultant                             MNSSD
Johnsson
 Maria Ines Fraile-Ordonez   Knowledge and Learning Coordinator     EAPCO
 Jose R. Lopez Calix         Lead Economist and Sector Lead         LCSPR
 Pierre Prosper Messali      Sr. Financial Management Specialist    MNAFM
 Rory C. O'Sullivan          Consultant                             MNCA4




                                             31
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                                 5.35
  FY06                                      52                       329.48
  FY07                                      37                       182.51
  FY08                                                                 0.00

                          Total:            89                       517.34
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                      1                          4.52
  FY08                                      5                         18.87

                          Total:            6                         23.39




                                       32
                    Annex 2. Government's Reform Program in 2006
Reform track #1: Strengthened sector governance and leadership
    Publication of revised CIE mandates. A revision of CIE mandates by circular letter from the
    Primature will establish CIE's responsibility for sector policy and planning coordination, and for
    proposing investment priorities and public expenditure allocations. CIE will be required to convene
    at least twice a year, and its recommendations will be taken into account in the draft Budget bill of
    the incoming year. Its permanent secretariat will be ensured by ministry in charge of water. CIE
    mandates, would be confirmed by decree in 2008. This will help overcome weak sector coordination
    and leadership, and increase consultation on policy and expenditure arbitrages. The CSEC standing
    committee will also be reactivated.
    Completion of a sector organization study: A high-level organizational assessment will be
    conducted, towards clarifying conflicts between policy and operating roles, and towards optimizing
    capacities for integration of sector strategies. TORs will be established and validated in 2006 for
    accelerated study launch. The study will be completed and submitted to CIE's decision in 2008 for
    implementation in 2009.
    Implementation of Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks (MTEF): MATEE/SEE have
    developed MTEFs in 2006 towards the 2007 Budget Law. Other sector ministries will follow suit in
    2007, as part of the 2008 budgeting process. This measure is expected to have a major impact for
    public expenditure predictability, optimized allocation, and performance management.
    Optimized public expenditure and sector financing strategies. As early as 2007 the yearly draft
    budget law will take into account CIE's recommendations for public expenditure priorities and
    allocations in the sector. Also, the findings and recommendations of the PESW's Sector Financing
    Study will be submitted to the CIE in 2007 for decision on an action plan to optimize sector
    financing, to be included in the reform program and budget bill as early as 2008. A study of fiscal
    options to alleviate financing constraints will also be launched, with findings submitted to CIE's
    decision by 2008.
    Systematic contractualization of public operators. Contracts will be established between GOM and
    public operators, raising accountability for subsidies. GOM opts for multi-year "Contrats-Plan" with
    ex-ante review of major expenditure. "Contrats-Programme" may later be implemented, for ex-post
    expenditure audits. Contractualization varies by subsector, and is thus dealt separately under tracks
    2, 3, and 4.
    National water information system: GOM will implement a national water information system to
    consolidate and share for public access data on water resources, policy and programs.
Reform track #2: Enactment of Integrated Water Resource Management Reform
    Refocusing of RBA mandates. To improve RBAs ability to fulfill their primary IWRM missions,
    by-laws are being updated in 2006 to preclude systematic and unfunded transfer of GOM duties to
    RBAs for the operation and maintenance of public hydraulic works. Where relevant, funded
    contracts will be established for RBAs to conduct routine maintenance of dams and flood control
    works.
    Establishment of river basin committees. GOM is to establish river basin committees (RBC) within
    each RBA, by circular letter to be issued in 2006, towards enhancing user and community
    representation and participation in RBA decision-making. All RBCs are to be operational by 2008;
    Provincial and Prefectoral Water Commissions (CPPE) will be re-activated between 2006 and 2007.
    Preparation of "Contrats-Plan" between GOM and RBAs. Strengthening of RBAs management
    systems and procedures is to begin in 2007, towards the establishment of "Contrat-Plans" between
    GOM and all RBAs by 2009.
    Regulation of project co-financing by RBAs. The rules under which RBAs can provide capital
    grant co-financing to selected water conservation/protection projects will be established in 2007,
    with the relevant decree published in the same year;
    Expansion and consolidation of RBA funding through water charges. Withdrawal charges will be
    published in 2006 and enforced as early as 2007 for all water users, including on individual irrigators
    outside of areas already covered by ORMVA-RBAs collection agreements, and on non-connected
    industries. Additional pollution charges will be published in 2006 and 2007, with enforcement to
    begin in 2007, on all residential and industrial users, including non-connected industries.

                                                    33
    Regulation of ocean discharges by establishment specific charges. In a complex effort to
    circumvent a gap in the Water Law (only applicable to fresh water) and ensure equity among
    dischargers, new charges will be established for discharges in the marine environment. The relevant
    decree should be approved in 2007 and published in 2008. Collection from major municipal and
    industrial coastal dischargers will begin in 2009, and will generate substantial pollution control funds
    in support of the NSP.
    Completed legal framework for water quality and pollution control regulation and enforcement.
    A plan to issue all decrees needed to address specific disposal quality targets will be issued in 2006.
    Such plan will be enacted between 2007 and 2009, with annual issuance of relevant new by-laws.
    Water quality monitoring and enforcement will begin in 2007 in a pilot basin, and extended annually
    to other basins. Monitoring will be extended to connected industries in 2009. These measures will
    require TA.
    Development of sustainable aquifer management strategy. After selecting 2 aquifer depletion and
    degradation case studies in 2006, GOM will develop detailed diagnostic and restoration action plans
    in 2007, and propose a national strategy to CIE in 2008, towards piloting on two aquifers.
    Promoting asset management of resource mobilization and hydraulic works. A dam maintenance
    and rehabilitation plan is to be issued in 2006, and begin in 2007. The development of new dam
    safety regulations will begin in 2007 for adoption by 2009. Dam sedimentation control will be
    strengthened, with finalization in 2007 of two watershed management studies, and, from 2008 on,
    implementation of National Watershed Management Program (PNABV) integrated projects.
    Integrated assessment of resource development alternatives in coastal zones and Tensift basin. In
    a pioneering integrated multidisciplinary effort, TORs will be validated, and a study will be launched
    in 2007 for the technical and economic assessment of bulk water supply alternatives (including
    mobilization, interbasin transfers, demand management and reallocations, reuse and desalination).
    Findings will be submitted to CIE's decision in 2008. TA is needed for TORs and study.
    Initiating the amendment process for the 1995 Water Law. Law optimization revisions will be
    submitted to CIE in 2008 and introduced in the ratification cycle in 2009. Amendments would
    optimize: RBA mandates; planning provisions (link between National Water Plan and River Basin
    Plans, roles of GOM, , RBAs, RBCs and CSEC in drafting such plans); community participation;
    definition of water charges; streamlining of Public Hydraulic Assets definition procedure, etc.
Reform track #3: Enhanced service, asset management and usage productivity in irrigation

    Development of a National Irrigation Water Conservation Plan (NIWCP). The accelerated
    development of the plan, started in 2006, will be completed and submitted to CIE decision in 2007.
    Endorsed as a national priority, implementation of the plan will begin in 2008.
    Streamlining and increase of water efficiency subsidy awards. Improvement of on-farm water use
    efficiency, including through the introduction of better performing irrigation techniques, will be
    facilitated through improvement of the existing subsidy system. The drafting of decrees amending
    subsidy award procedures, and raising the level of capital grant subsidies to 60% of investment costs
    is to be completed in 2006. Relevant decrees will be published in 2007.
    Improvement of maintenance in LSI areas. GOM plans to increase the share of maintenance in
    ORMVAs budgets by an amount at least equivalent to new tariff revenues as early as 2007.
    Performance regulation of ORMVA's water service. ORMVAs will be contractually committed to
    improved service, cost-efficiency and asset management. A strengthening of ORMVA management
    systems has begun in 2006 towards strict separation of the irrigation and agricultural extension costs.
    "Contrat-Plans" between ORMVAs and GOM will be drafted in 2007 and signed in 2008.
    Launch of PSPs for the rehabilitation and operation of existing LSI perimeters). Preparation of a
    PSP has been decided in 2006 towards delegating water service operations in the Loukkos ORMVA.
    TORs for transaction design will be finalized in 2006, the study will be launched in 2007 and
    completed in 2008, and the tender for service delegation will be launched in 2009.
    LSI rehabilitation plan. A program to upgrade and rehabilitate irrigations systems in the main LSI
    perimeters operated by the ORMVAs is being developed in 2006. Such plan should be approved for
    funding and implementation in 2007 through 2009.
    Enhancing the role and capacity of Water Users Associations in irrigation. A 2006 paper is to
    clarify the role of WUAs within ORMVA service areas. A study will be conducted in 2007 to


                                                     34
    prepare a transfer of irrigation planning and management to WUAs in 2 pilot zones (small and/or
    traditional perimeters). Negotiations with WUAs will begin in 2008 towards tentative transfer of
    irrigation management in 2009.
    Launch of PSPs for the development of new LSI perimeters. The transaction will aim at
    developing irrigation downstream of existing unused dam capacity in the Gharb region. Relevant
    studies are to be launched in 2007 for a first tranche of the TTI Gharb perimeter, and to be completed
    in 2008. The bidding process for a turnkey transaction will begin in 2009.

Reform track #4: Improving access to WSS service, and wastewater treatment capacity
    Supporting and enhancing the sustainability of Morocco's RWS program. GOM is to increase
    financial resources available for funding of RWS investment, and to actually transfer all subsidies
    committed to as part of Budget Laws. In 2007, a plan will be developed to mitigate sustainability risks
    on installed RWS systems, towards funding and implementation starting in 2008. Consistent with rural
    demand, GOM will develop a plan in 2007 to promote the conversion of existing standpipe-based
    RWS systems to network-based connection service. A strategy will be adopted in 2008 for
    implementation in 2009. A decree regulating on-site sanitation systems, important for rural areas, will
    be drafted in 2006 for adoption in 2007.
    Supporting the implementation of the National Sanitation Program. A National Sanitation
    Program (NSP) was formally engaged in 2006. The NSP aims at abating 60% of pollution loads by
    2010 and 80% by 2015. It also aims at providing 80% of urban households with individual
    connections by 2020. GOM is committed to reallocate an increasing share of public subsidies to NSP
    in subsequent years, and to actually pay them as stipulated in Budget Law. Grant allocation criteria
    by will also be developed in 2006, followed in 2007 by a study of opportunities to optimize NSP's
    investment and financing strategies. A water reuse good practice manual will be issued in 2007,
    along with a capacity-building plan. A study is planned, starting in 2007, to define a regulatory
    action plan required for the development of agricultural and industrial reuse.
    Launch of a National Water Supply Conservation Plan. GOM will prepare in 2007 and start
    implementing in 2008 a National Water Supply Conservation Plan, geared primarily at containing
    non revenue water (NRW) as well as urban residential and industrial demands.
    Develop financing solutions to facilitate access to WSS service in poor urban and peri-urban
    areas. GOM plans to establish a need diagnostic and an action plan in 2007, for the accelerated
    development, funding, and implementation in 2008 of a national plan to increase service access in
    poor urban and peri-urban neighborhoods unfit for existing connection programs and pricing.
    Strengthening of the WSS regulatory framework. A landmark new service delegation law was
    passed in 2006, setting the framework for outsourcing of public services to public or private utility
    companies. Implementation decrees will be adopted in 2007, allowing strengthened contractual
    regulation of operators, including public ones, to manage performance and facilitate tariff
    adjustments. Starting in 2006, GOM is also to study the piloting of multisector distribution utility
    consolidation at a regional scale for two zones in Morocco. A recommended action plan for the two
    regions will be submitted to CIE's decision in 2009. A workgroup will also be established to assess
    sector regulation needs and options, leading to a study of WSS distribution regulation action plan in
    2008. In the short term, a plan will be implemented towards better regulatory accounting, reporting
    and benchmarking standards for all operators.
    Continued tariff reform. WSS tariff reform, towards more efficient targeting of subsidies, access
    promotion, and cost-recovery is one of the key elements of the reform program. GOM is committed
    to continuing the adaptation of tariffs in response to changing socio-economic and financing
    constraints. A national WSS tariff study, inclusive of a tariff simulator, was achieved in 2006,
    leading to preliminary tariff structure adjustments. Further optimization is being assessed in 2006,
    for targeting of pro-poor subsidies, increased conservation, and operational performance, and
    improved equity of sector transfers and cross-subsidies, taking into account PSIA findings. Relevant
    decrees will be drafted in 2007, for adoption in 2008.
    Contractual performance management of WSS operators. GOM is developing a plan to upgrade
    management systems and contractual framework of régies, moving towards greater autonomy and
    accountability of "Contrat-Programmes" by 2009. GOM intends to sign ONEP's new "Contrat-
    Programme" in 2006, and upgrade performance management provisions of the next contract.


                                                    35
          Annex 3. ICR Results Matrix for the Morocco Water Sector DPL

Main          Sub-            Prior            Milestones           Output           Output           Program
Objectives    objectives      actions          and triggers         criteria         criteria         Outcome
                              2006             for 2007 and         and/or           and/or           Indicator
                                               DPL2 (state of       indicator        indicator        2010 and
                                               advancement          target values    target           level of
                                               in Jun 2009)         2006             values           achieveme
                                                                                     2007             nt at close
                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                      DPL1(2009)
Objective 1 : Improve water sector governance
1.1. Ensure   a) Empower      Mandates of      Convene CIE          Adoption of      Minutes of 2     CIE
consistency   sector policy   Interministeri   twice a year,        PM circular;     CIE sessions     formulates
of water      coordination    al Water         with one                                               GOM
sector        entities        Commission       session              Minutes of one                    priorities on
policies                      (CIE) and its    dedicated to a       CIE session                       key sector
                              permanent        consistency                                            programs,
                              secretariat      review of                                              and allows
                              revised by       implementation                        A press          improved
                              PM' circular     strategies and                        release but no   coherence of
                              letter. CIE to   financing                             minutes of the   sector
                              propose          priorities of                         Dec 2008         policies. So
                              priorities for   sector                                meeting have     far this
                              implementati     programs                              been provided    outcome
                              on and           [annual clause]                       to the Bank.     appears
                              financing of     The CIE has only                                       uncertain.
                              water sector     met once after                                         Although the
                              programs.        loan signature, in                                     CPCSEC's
                                               December 2008.                                         executive
                                               During this                                            power is to
                                               meeting, it was                                        be enhanced
                                               decided that the                                       through the
                                               CIE would be                                           prime
                                               dissolved and the                                      minister's
                                               CPCSEC                                                 chairmanship
                                               (Permanent                                             it is uncertain
                                               Committee of the                                       whether the
                                               Superior Council                                       intended
                                               on Water and                                           inter-
                                               Climate,                                               ministerial
                                               established                                            policy
                                               through the 1995                                       coordination
                                               Water law) would                                       and resource
                                               be activated to                                        allocation
                                               fulfill its intra-                                     functions of
                                               sector                                                 the CIE will
                                               consultation                                           be preserved
                                               duties. This                                           within the
                                               activation is now                                      CPCSEC.
                                               pending a decree
                                               conferring
                                               CPCSEC
                                               chairmanship to
                                               the prime
                                               minister.




                                                        36
Main           Sub-            Prior             Milestones          Output            Output            Program
Objectives     objectives      actions           and triggers        criteria          criteria          Outcome
                               2006              for 2007 and        and/or            and/or            Indicator
                                                 DPL2 (state of      indicator         indicator         2010 and
                                                 advancement         target values     target            level of
                                                 in Jun 2009)        2006              values            achieveme
                                                                                       2007              nt at close
                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                         DPL1(2009)
               b) Improve      Validate          Launch sector       TORs validated    Interim study     Optimized
               sector          TORs of           organization        by                report            sector
               organization    sector            study. Issue an     interdepartment   A report of the   organization
               and increase    organization      interim report by   al Steering       first phase of    in place
               capacity for    study, to         mid-2007            Committee         the study         Outcome
               sector policy   clarify policy    describing the                        (diagnostic)      uncertain.
               & planning      & operating       main                                  has been          The current
               integration.    roles and         reorganization                        completed and     state of
                               optimize          options. A first                      a summary         advancement
                               integration of    phase of the re-                      was provided      of the study
                               sector            organization                          to the Bank.      on
                               strategies.       study, overseen                                         reorganizatio
                                                 by SEEE rather                                          n options
                                                 than the MAEG,                                          does not
                                                 has been                                                provide
                                                 completed. It                                           sufficient
                                                 does not provide                                        indication on
                                                 reorganization                                          the potential
                                                 options, which                                          achievement
                                                 are to emerge                                           of this
                                                 from the second                                         outcome.
                                                 phase of the
                                                 study.
1.2. Align     a) Develop a    Launch            Implementation      MTEF plan         MTEF              Increased
financial      consolidated    process for the   of MTEF for         submitted by      validated for     share of
resource       Medium          development       MATEE and           MATEE/SEE to      MATEE &           public
allocation     Term            of consolidated   SEE.                GOM's MTEF        SEE. MTEF         expenditure
with sector-   Expenditure     MTEF for line     Development of      committee         prepared by       allocated to
wide policy    Framework       water             MTEFs for other                       all ministries.   WSS access
priorities     (MTEF)          ministries,       sector ministries                     However,          development,
                               starting with     MTEFs were                            insufficient      resource
                               MATEE/SEE         reportedly                            documentation     conservation
                                                 prepared for                          was provided      and
                                                 2007-2009 and                         to evaluate       protection
                                                 updated for                           this action.      programs, as
                                                 2010-2012.                            (Additional       programmed.
                                                 (Additional                           supporting        Modest
                                                 supporting                            documentation     progress is
                                                 documentation                         has been          being
                                                 has been                              requested)        achieved
                                                 requested)                                              towards this
               b) Adapt                          Include CIE's                         PM's annual       outcome.
               subsidies to                      proposals in                          BLPN              Based on
               support                           PM's annual                           No BPLN           summary
               priority and                      Budget Law                            documentation     figures
               optimized                         Preparation                           has been          provided by
               investment                        Note (BLPN)                           received          the MFP, the
               strategies                        [annually]                                              share of
                                                 The CIE has not                                         public
                                                 prepared or                                             expenditures
                                                 submitted                                               (State Budget
                                                 proposals to be                                         only) in the
                                                 included in the                                         water sector
                                                 PM's BLPN                                               allocated to




                                                          37
Main           Sub-             Prior            Milestones            Output             Output             Program
Objectives     objectives       actions          and triggers          criteria           criteria           Outcome
                                2006             for 2007 and          and/or             and/or             Indicator
                                                 DPL2 (state of        indicator          indicator          2010 and
                                                 advancement           target values      target             level of
                                                 in Jun 2009)          2006               values             achieveme
                                                                                          2007               nt at close
                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                             DPL1(2009)
                                Complete &       Submit study          Validated study    Minutes of CIE     WSS access
                                validate the     recommendatio         report             meeting            development,
                                Sector           ns for CIE's                             The study was      resource
                                Financing        decision                                 presented to       conservation
                                Study            The study was                            CIE in Dec.        and
                                                 presented to CIE                         2008               protection
                                                 in Dec. 2008                                                programs
                                Launch a         Carry out the         TOR validated      Study report       appears to
                                study of         study on              by Steering        or progress        have
                                parafiscal tax   parafiscal taxes      Committee          status report      increased
                                options to       to benefit the        The TOR is still   of the study       slightly from
                                enhance          water sector          in discussion      The study has      16% in 2007
                                sector funding   The study has         between MFP,       not yet begun,     to 17% in
                                                 not yet begun,        MI, SEEE.          pending the        2009.
                                                 pending the                              finalization of    (Figure to be
                                                 finalization of the                      the TOR.           verified by
                                                 TOR.                                                        GOM. Have
                                                                                                             requested an
                                                                                                             official
                                                                                                             calculation
                                                                                                             from MFP.)
Objective 2: Complete the implementation of integrated water resources
management reform
2.1.Empowe     a) Focus                          Update by-laws                           Joint by-laws      Number of
r River        RBA mission                       transferring                             published. Six     River Basin
Basin          on resource                       responsibility for                       by-laws have       Plans
Agencies       monitoring,                       Public Hydraulic                         been adopted,      (PDAIRE)
(RBA),         managemen                         Assets (Domaine                          but do not fully   debated and
including      t & planning                      Hydraulique                              respond to         approved by
through        as well as                        Public - DPH) to                         reform             River Basin
expansion of   stakeholder                       River Basin                              objectives, as     Committees.
the water      participation.                    Agencies                                 RBA mandate        Modest
charges                                          (RBAs).                                  remains            progress is
system                                           Six by-laws have                         focused on         being made
                                                 been adopted,                            O&M of             towards this
                                                 but do not fully                         hydraulic          outcome.
                                                 respond to                               infrastructure     There are 9
                                                 reform                                   rather than on     PDAIRE
                                                 objectives, as                           broader DPH        currently
                                                 RBA mandate                              monitoring,        being
                                                 remains focused                          management         finalized, and
                                                 on O&M of                                and planning.      two more
                                                 hydraulic                                                   currently
                                                 infrastructure                                              being
                                                 rather than on                                              developed.
                                                 broader DPH                                                 The planning
                                                 monitoring,                                                 committees
                                                 management and                                              of certain
                                                 planning.                                                   RBAs are




                                                           38
Main         Sub-            Prior           Milestones          Output           Output            Program
Objectives   objectives      actions         and triggers        criteria         criteria          Outcome
                             2006            for 2007 and        and/or           and/or            Indicator
                                             DPL2 (state of      indicator        indicator         2010 and
                                             advancement         target values    target            level of
                                             in Jun 2009)        2006             values            achieveme
                                                                                  2007              nt at close
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                    DPL1(2009)
                                             Establish and                      Standard contract   involved in
                                             fund by separate                   adopted by the      the
                                             contract any                       Government          elaboration of
                                             infrastructure                      A standard         the PDAIRE,
                                             O&M tasks                           contract is not    but the river
                                             assigned to                         in place, as the   basin
                                             RBAs                                government         committees
                                                                                 now posits that    are not as
                                                                                 O&M task           they are not
                                                                                 definition and     functional.
                                                                                 funding will be
                                                                                 defined on a
                                                                                 case by case
                                                                                 basis through
                                                                                 the contrat-
                                                                                 plans.
                                                                                 However,
                                                                                 these tasks
                                                                                 continue to be
                                                                                 assigned
                                                                                 through
                                                                                 identical by-
                                                                                 laws for all
                                                                                 RBAs.
             b) Promote      Establish a     At least one RBC    GOM's circular   Minutes of at
             user &          River Basin     operational         issued to        least one RBC
             community       Committee       No RBC is           establish RCBs   meeting
             representati    (RBC) in each   currently                            Not applicable
             on &            RBA             operational.                         as no RBC is
             participation                   Current tendency                     operational to
             in RBA                          is to strengthen                     date.
             decisions                       technical
                                             commissions
                                             working for the
                                             RBA Boards of
                                             directors instead
                                             of creating of
                                             RBCs. The
                                             information
                                             provided does
                                             not detail the
                                             functioning of
                                             these
                                             commissions.
             c) Establish    Issue a         Prepare RBAs        Contrat-Plan     At least one
             contracts to    calendar for    for contract        implementation   Contrat-Plan
             rule mutual     implementatio   prerequisites       calendar         prepared
             obligations     n of Contrat-   (cost
             of GOM &        Plans           accounting, IT
             RBA             between GOM     systems, etc..).
                             and each RBA    Prepare Contrat-
                                             Plan for at least
                                             one RBA
                                             A number of
                                             contrat-plans
                                             have reportedly
                                             been developed
                                             and are currently
                                             being reviewed
                                             by the MFP.



                                                     39
Main         Sub-           Prior              Milestones            Output          Output            Program
Objectives   objectives     actions            and triggers          criteria        criteria          Outcome
                            2006               for 2007 and          and/or          and/or            Indicator
                                               DPL2 (state of        indicator       indicator         2010 and
                                               advancement           target values   target            level of
                                               in Jun 2009)          2006            values            achieveme
                                                                                     2007              nt at close
                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                       DPL1(2009)
             d) Set rules                      Draft, adopt and      Decree          Decree            % of potential
             for awarding                      publish decree        published       implemented       water
             of capital                        ruling the                            for all RBAs      charges
             grant co-                         allocation of                                           collected
             financing to                      capital grants                                          and % of
             projects                          by RBAs,                                                charges
                                               consistent with                                         collected
                                               other subsidies                                         applied to
                                               (NSP, FDA).                                             project co-
                                               A draft decree                                          financing.
                                               has been                                                Progress is
                                               prepared and                                            uncertain
                                               signed by                                               towards this
                                               MEMEE and                                               outcome.
                                               MFP, but SGG                                            Data
                                               (Government's                                           provided
                                               General                                                 does not
                                               Secretariat) now                                        allow for the
                                               posits that the                                         evaluation of
                                               allocation of                                           this indicator.
                                               capital grants by                                       However, an
                                               RBAs is the                                             overall
                                               prerogative and a                                       increase is
                                               formal attribution                                      observed in
                                               of the RBA                                              the amounts
                                               Boards of                                               billed and
                                               directors. This                                         collected by
                                               position actually                                       the RBAs
                                               supports the                                            between
                                               reform objective                                        2006 and
                                               of empowering                                           2007, and is
                                               RBAs.                                                   expected to
                                                                                                       increase at a
                                                                                                       higher rate in
             e) Enact       Publish by-        Initiate collection   By-law          20% of billings   2008 and
             withdrawal     laws related to    of abstraction        published       collected         2009.
             charges for    water              charges for                           By July 2008,
             unconnected    abstraction for    unconnected                           only the OER
             industries &   industrial uses.   industries                            RBA had
             farmers                           Three RBAs                            begun
             (outside of                       have begun                            collecting
             Ormva-RBA                         billing industrial                    these charges.
             conventions)                      withdrawal
                                               charges.
                                               Initiate collection                   20% of billings
                                               of abstraction                        collected
                                               charges for                           In July 2008,
                                               irrigation users                      only the
                                               (outside of                           Bouregreg
                                               ORMVA-RBA                             RBA was
                                               conventions)                          billing and
                                               Data provided do                      collecting
                                               not allow for the                     these charges,
                                               evaluation of this                    since 2006.
                                               action.




                                                         40
Main         Sub-           Prior              Milestones            Output           Output            Program
Objectives   objectives     actions            and triggers          criteria         criteria          Outcome
                            2006               for 2007 and          and/or           and/or            Indicator
                                               DPL2 (state of        indicator        indicator         2010 and
                                               advancement           target values    target            level of
                                               in Jun 2009)          2006             values            achieveme
                                                                                      2007              nt at close
                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                        DPL1(2009)
             f) Introduce   Publish by-        Publish other by-     by-law published Other by-laws
             pollution      laws for           laws related to                        published. 20%
             charges for    municipal and      pollution                              of billings
             municipal      industrial         charges. Collect                       collected
             and            pollution          pollution charges                      Four RBAs in
             industrial     charges            Two by-laws                            2008, and five
             users                             concerning the                         in 2009 were
                                               technical                              billing these
                                               characteristics of                     charges. Data
                                               wastewater                             provided do not
                                               effluent                               allow for the
                                               (dimensioning,                         evaluation of
                                               pollution                              this action.
                                               coefficients and
                                               efficiency of
                                               treatment) are
                                               under review by
                                               the Ministry of
                                               Industry. This
                                               reportedly does
                                               not interfere with
                                               collections of
                                               these charges by
                                               the RBAs.
             g) Regulate    Draft legal text   Adoption by the       Draft legal      Legal document
             charges for    for the control    Government of         document         adopted
             ocean          of wastewater      the legal                              By-law under
             discharge of   ocean disposal     document for the                       review but may
             wastewater                        control of                             not be adopted.
                                               wastewater
                                               ocean disposal
                                               A draft by law is
                                               under review, but
                                               appears to be
                                               contentious due
                                               to a possible
                                               legal basis issue
                                               relating to
                                               territorial waters.




                                                         41
Main           Sub-            Prior               Milestones           Output           Output             Program
Objectives     objectives      actions             and triggers         criteria         criteria           Outcome
                               2006                for 2007 and         and/or           and/or             Indicator
                                                   DPL2 (state of       indicator        indicator          2010 and
                                                   advancement          target values    target             level of
                                                   in Jun 2009)         2006             values             achieveme
                                                                                         2007               nt at close
                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                            DPL1(2009)
2.2. Develop   a) Complete     Issue calendar      Publish the joint    Agenda for the   At least 5 by-     Number of
water          legal           for the             by-laws dealing      publication of   laws published     discharge
pollution      framework       publication of      with specific        the joint by-    per year           points
monitoring     for pollution   the joint by-laws   disposal target      laws             Not met, but       permitted and
               control, and    dealing with        standards                             progress is        monitored
               empower         specific disposal   [recurrent clause]                    significant with   Progress is
               institutional   target standards    There is progress                     5 by-laws          being made
               monitoring                          towards this                          published or       towards this
               capacities                          action. 4 by-laws                     about to be        outcome in
                                                   have been                             published, and     legal terms.
                                                   published                             5 additional       Institutional
                                                   between 2006                          by-laws under      monitoring
                                                   and 2009                              review or          capacities not
                                                   (domestic, sugar                      elaboration.       yet
                                                   refineries, paper                                        empowered.
                                                   mills, cement                                            By July 2008
                                                   factories); a by-                                        (no recent
                                                   law concerning                                           data
                                                   oil refineries                                           provided) no
                                                   disposal is being                                        RBA had
                                                   published, and                                           initiated
                                                   another                                                  regulation of
                                                   concerning                                               polluting
                                                   surface treatment                                        effluents.
                                                   is under review.                                         However, it is
                                                   Another 4 bylaws                                         noteworthy
                                                   are under                                                that all RBAs
                                                   discussion                                               are currently
                                                   regarding: i)                                            conducting
                                                   maximum                                                  an inventory
                                                   disposal                                                 of disposal
                                                   standards, ii)                                           sites.
                                                   wastewater
                                                   treatment
                                                   efficiency
                                                   standards, and
                                                   iii) dimensioning
                                                   and pollution
                                                   coefficients of
                                                   industrial
                                                   activities.
                                                   Initiate water                        Number of
                                                   quality control                       discharge
                                                   enforcement                           permits issued
                                                   activities in a                       By July 2008,
                                                   pilot river basin                     the regulation
                                                   This action has                       and permitting
                                                   not been                              of disposal
                                                   completed as it is                    sites had not
                                                   dependent upon                        begun for the
                                                   regulatory                            three sectors
                                                   framework (see                        equipped with
                                                   above) being in                       regulatory
                                                   place.                                standards.




                                                            42
Main           Sub-            Prior               Milestones           Output          Output      Program
Objectives     objectives      actions             and triggers         criteria        criteria    Outcome
                               2006                for 2007 and         and/or          and/or      Indicator
                                                   DPL2 (state of       indicator       indicator   2010 and
                                                   advancement          target values   target      level of
                                                   in Jun 2009)         2006            values      achieveme
                                                                                        2007        nt at close
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                    DPL1(2009)
2.3 Identify   a) Design &     Select two          Implementation       Two case                    Groundwater
and launch     pilot a natl.   case studies        of the analysis on   studies                     management
a              strategy to     for                 the two case         selected                    strategy and
sustainable    curb aquifer    identification of   studies.                                         plan
approach to    depletion       the problems        Initiate the                                     submitted to
aquifer        and pollution   and proposal        design of a                                      CIE.
managemen                      of solutions        national strategy                                Recovery
t.                                                 for the protection                               trends in
                                                   of overexploited                                 aquifer levels
                                                   and/or                                           & quality in
                                                   contaminated                                     selected
                                                   aquifers                                         aquifers
                                                   This action                                      There is
                                                   shows progress.                                  progress
                                                   A national                                       towards this
                                                   strategy for the                                 outcome. A
                                                   protection of                                    national
                                                   aquifers,                                        strategy was
                                                   including                                        presented to
                                                   technical and                                    CIE in Dec
                                                   legislative                                      2008.
                                                   measures, was                                    Data
                                                   presented to CIE                                 provided do
                                                   in Dec. 2008.                                    not allow
                                                   Actions                                          quantification
                                                   considered                                       of aquifer
                                                   include an                                       recovery
                                                   increase in                                      trends and
                                                   aquifer                                          quality. The
                                                   withdrawal                                       aquifer
                                                   charges and                                      regulation
                                                   creation of                                      process is
                                                   prohibited                                       making
                                                   withdrawal areas.                                progress but
                                                   Additional                                       faces
                                                   initiatives                                      significant
                                                   underway include                                 human and
                                                   aquifer contracts                                material
                                                   (operational in                                  resource
                                                   Sousse, in                                       constraints, in
                                                   finalization in El                               additional to
                                                   haouz, la Bahira,                                as of yet
                                                   Saiss et                                         insufficient
                                                   Berrechi). Also,                                 empowermen
                                                   the framework                                    t of RBAs to
                                                   agreements                                       enforce
                                                   signed between                                   aquifer
                                                   SEEE and the                                     protection
                                                   regions in 2009                                  measures.
                                                   include aquifer
                                                   protection
                                                   programs (water
                                                   conservation,
                                                   recharge, aquifer
                                                   contracts, etc.).




                                                            43
Main            Sub-             Prior             Milestones           Output          Output        Program
Objectives      objectives       actions           and triggers         criteria        criteria      Outcome
                                 2006              for 2007 and         and/or          and/or        Indicator
                                                   DPL2 (state of       indicator       indicator     2010 and
                                                   advancement          target values   target        level of
                                                   in Jun 2009)         2006            values        achieveme
                                                                                        2007          nt at close
                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                      DPL1(2009)
                                                   Plan the
                                                   development of
                                                   withdrawal &
                                                   quality control
                                                   activities in the
                                                   most depleted or
                                                   contaminated
                                                   aquifers
                                                   Data provided in
                                                   July 2008
                                                   regarding
                                                   regularized
                                                   withdrawals do
                                                   not indicate
                                                   whether they are
                                                   surface or
                                                   subterranean
                                                   waters. The by-
                                                   law published on
                                                   Jan 16 2009
                                                   regarding
                                                   authorizations
                                                   and concessions
                                                   plans for an
                                                   additional 3 year
                                                   time frame to
                                                   declare and
                                                   regularize aquifer
                                                   withdrawals.

2.4.            a) Secure        Optimize and      No action                                          Multi-year
Enhance the     the              support the       required for                                       plan on the
sustainabilit   optimization     maintenance       2007.                                              optimization
y of            and              and               Public                                             and financing
hydraulic       financing of     rehabilitation    investment for                                     of hydraulic
infrastructur   hydraulic        of hydraulic      maintenance and                                    infrastructure
e for           infrastructur    infrastructure.   rehabilitation of                                  maintenance
resource        e                (recurring        hydraulic                                          and
mobilization.   maintenance      clause)           infrastructure                                     rehabilitation.
                and                                (not including                                     Adoption of
                rehabilitation                     funds directed to                                  legal
                .                                  RBAs for this                                      framework for
                                                   purpose) has                                       dam safety
                                                   slightly increased                                 Data
                                                   between 2007                                       provided do
                                                   and 2008, but                                      not allow for
                                                   decreased in                                       the
                                                   2009.                                              evaluation of
                                                                                                      this indicator.
                b) Regulate      Initiate a        Initiate                             Draft legal
                the safety of    consultative      discussion                           framework
                dams/            process to        towards a draft
                hydraulic        discuss           legal framework
                infrastructur    regulatory        on dam safety
                e                options for       Data provided do
                                 dam safety        not allow for the
                                                   evaluation of this
                                                   action.




                                                            44
Main            Sub-           Prior            Milestones           Output          Output      Program
Objectives      objectives     actions          and triggers         criteria        criteria    Outcome
                               2006             for 2007 and         and/or          and/or      Indicator
                                                DPL2 (state of       indicator       indicator   2010 and
                                                advancement          target values   target      level of
                                                in Jun 2009)         2006            values      achieveme
                                                                                     2007        nt at close
                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                 DPL1(2009)
                c) Fight       Finalize the     Accelerate the                                   Area (ha)
                against        watershed        implementation                                   under anti-
                sedimentatio   management       of the PNABV as                                  erosion
                n through      studies in       part of integrated                               management
                watershed      progress, esp.   cross-sector                                     Progress is
                managemen      for              programs                                         being made
                t . National   OuedMellah       (recurring clause)                               towards this
                Watershed      and Allal El     The anti-erosion                                 outcome.
                Managemen      Fassi            management                                       Watershed
                t Plan                          project for the                                  management
                (PNABV)                         Allal El Fassi and                               programs
                                                Oued Mellah                                      funded
                                                watersheds                                       between
                                                started in April                                 2006 and
                                                2007 and will last                               2008 have
                                                until 2013, at a                                 achieved the
                                                total cost of 315                                reforestation
                                                million MAD                                      of 40,000 ha
                                                funded by JICA                                   and the
                                                (75%) and GOM                                    construction
                                                (25%).                                           of 193,000
                                                Increased                                        m3 of dikes
                                                investment in this                               to correct
                                                sub-sector is                                    ravines, in
                                                planned and                                      addition to
                                                expected to yield                                local
                                                considerable                                     development
                                                progress in the                                  extension
                                                fight against                                    measures.
                                                sedimentation.

2.5. Conduct                                    Develop,                                         Progress is
a strategic                                     approve the TOR                                  being made
analysis of                                     and launch a                                     towards this
the                                             technical,                                       outcome.
satisfaction                                    economic and                                     The study is
of water                                        environmental                                    in progress,
needs for                                       study of options                                 but without
agriculture,                                    to satisfy water                                 consultations
potable                                         demand in the                                    with relevant
water                                           Tensift coastal                                  sector
supply,                                         area.                                            agencies.
industrial                                      The study is in
uses,                                           progress, but
environment                                     without
al uses, etc.                                   consultations
in the                                          with relevant
Tensift                                         sector agencies.
coastal
area.
2.6. Initiate                                   A study to                                       Progress is
the process                                     evaluate the                                     being made
to revise the                                   implementation                                   towards this
1995 Water                                      of the 10-95                                     outcome.
Law                                             Water Law is                                     Study is
                                                being conducted,                                 currently in
                                                to define any                                    progress.
                                                necessary
                                                amendments.




                                                         45
Main          Sub-             Prior               Milestones            Output            Output            Program
Objectives    objectives       actions             and triggers          criteria          criteria          Outcome
                               2006                for 2007 and          and/or            and/or            Indicator
                                                   DPL2 (state of        indicator         indicator         2010 and
                                                   advancement           target values     target            level of
                                                   in Jun 2009)          2006              values            achieveme
                                                                                           2007              nt at close
                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                             DPL1(2009)
Objective 3: Improve service, ensure asset sustainability and raise use
efficiency in irrigation
3.1          a) Make a         Start the           Finalize the           Policy paper /   Minutes of the    Increase in
Improve      national          preparation of      NIWCP and              guidelines of    CIE meeting       the
on-farm      priority of the   the NIWCP           submit it to the       the NIWCP        including         agricultural
water use    Natl Plan for     (encompassing       CIE for decision.                       decision in       area
efficiency   Conservation      technical,          Allocate                                regards to the    equipped with
             of Irrigation     financial, legal,   adequate public                         NIWCP             efficient
             Water             institutional and   funding to NIWCP                        No CIE Minutes    irrigation
             (NIWCP)           awareness           needs for 2008,                         are available.    systems
                               raising aspects)    as programmed                           The NIWCP         There is
                                                   The NCIWP was                           was funded in     significant
                                                   presented at the                        LdF 2009          progress
                                                   CIE meeting in                          through the       towards this
                                                   Dec. 2008 and                           Plan Maroc Vert   outcome.
                                                   received full                           as a priority     The areas
                                                   support (no                             measure, and is   equipped with
                                                   minutes available).                     expected to       efficient
                                                   Funding for key                         continue to be    irrigation
                                                   conservation                            fully supported   systems has
                                                   measures was                                              increased by
                                                   allocated in LdF                                          22% between
                                                   2008 before the                                           2006 and
                                                   Plan was                                                  2008
                                                   approved. Since
                                                   2009 funding is
                                                   allocated through
                                                   the Plan Maroc
                                                   Vert.
             b) Increase       Prepare an          Adopt and              Amendment        Amendment
             FDA subsidy       amendment           promulgate the         signed by the    promulgated
             rate to           to the by-law       amendment              minister of      This
             farmers'          dated Nov. 9,       This amendment         MADRPM           amendment
             projects for      2001 to             was promulgated        and put in the   was
             conversion to     increase the        in 2006.               decision         promulgated
             efficient         subsidy rate                               making           in 2006.
             irrigation        to 60%                                     process
             system
             c) Simplify       Amend by-           Adopt and              by-law signed    Decree
             procedure for     laws on             promulgate decree      by the           adopted and
             granting          efficient           The decree was         ministers        promulgated
             subsidies to      irrigation          adopted and            MADRPM           The decree
             conversion to     equipment           promulgated in         and MFP          was adopted
             water efficient   subsidy             2006.                                   and
             irrigation        granting by                                                 promulgated
             systems           replacing the                                               in 2006.
                               withdrawal                                                  However, it is
                               permit                                                      unclear
                               requirement                                                 whether the
                               with a simple                                               declarations of
                               declaration of                                              withdrawal are
                               withdrawal.                                                 transmitted to
                               (for                                                        RBAs to
                               conversion                                                  support a
                               only)                                                       withdrawals
                                                                                           regularization
                                                                                           process.




                                                            46
Main          Sub-            Prior              Milestones            Output           Output               Program
Objectives    objectives      actions            and triggers          criteria         criteria             Outcome
                              2006               for 2007 and          and/or           and/or               Indicator
                                                 DPL2 (state of        indicator        indicator            2010 and
                                                 advancement           target values    target               level of
                                                 in Jun 2009)          2006             values               achieveme
                                                                                        2007                 nt at close
                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                             DPL1(2009)
3.2          a) Establish     Prepare            Prepare the CPs        Report on the   Draft CPs            Increase the
Improve      Contrat-Plan     ORMVAs to          setting reciprocal     costs of each   prepared for 9       proportion of
ORMVA        (CP) to rule     develop            commitments            mission and     ORMVAs               ORMVAs
technical    State and        prerequisites of   between the State      the             Draft CPs are        operation and
and          ORMVAs           CP's               and the ORMVAs         performances    ready for two        maintenance
financial    mutual           implementation     Studies are            of each         pilot ORMVAs         (O&M)
performan    obligations      (analytical        underway with          ORMVA for       (Haouz and           expenses
ce                            accounting,        assistance from        2005            Gharb).              covered by
                              information        WB consultants.                                             irrigation
                              system of                                                                      water
                              management,                                                                    revenues
                              etc.) with the                                                                 There is
                              objective of                                                                   significant
                              separating the                                                                 progress
                              water service                                                                  towards this
                              accounts from                                                                  outcome.
                              other missions'                                                                Coverage of
                              accounts                                                                       O&M
             b) Approach      Establish the      Implement the          Issue the       Publishing of        expenses has
             sustainable      Tariff             TAP while              TAP.            by-laws              increased
             cost recovery    Adjustment         maintaining high                       relative to tariff   from an
             for water        Plan (TAP) for     collection rate of                     increases in         average
             service in all   ORMVAs             service fees. A                        line with the        across all
             public                              first tranche of                       plan                 ORMVAs of
             irrigation                          TAP was                                Publication in       65% to 72%
             perimeters.                         implemented in                         early 2009 of        between
                                                 early 2009. The                        a regulation         2005 and
                                                 government                             (arrêté)             2009, and is
                                                 intends to continue                    increasing           expected to
                                                 with TAP at a brisk                    tariffs. A           reach 98% by
                                                 pace, with bi-                         second               2011 with
                                                 annual tariff                          regulation is        planned twice
                                                 increases currently                    expected             yearly tariff
                                                 under review for                       shortly              increases.
                                                 the next 3 years                       (already
                                                 (until 2012) in                        signed by
                                                 order to reach                         MAPM) to
                                                 quasi full cost-                       continue to
                                                 recovery.                              increase tariffs
                                                 Collection rates                       twice per year
                                                 rose from 76% in                       to cover costs
                                                 2006 to 82% in                         by 2012.
                                                 2007, then fell to
                                                 74% in 2008.

                                                                        MFP Note        80% of bills
                                                                                        collected
                                                                                        The
                                                                                        collections
                                                                                        rate has
                                                                                        increased
                                                                                        from 70% in
                                                                                        2002 to 83%
                                                                                        in 2007, as a
                                                                                        result of
                                                                                        sustained
                                                                                        efforts to
                                                                                        recover
                                                                                        arrears and
                                                                                        improve
                                                                                        collections.


                                                          47
Main            Sub-            Prior              Milestones            Output             Output             Program
Objectives      objectives      actions            and triggers          criteria           criteria           Outcome
                                2006               for 2007 and          and/or             and/or             Indicator
                                                   DPL2 (state of        indicator          indicator          2010 and
                                                   advancement           target values      target             level of
                                                   in Jun 2009)          2006               values             achieveme
                                                                                            2007               nt at close
                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                               DPL1(2009)
                                Assess waiving     Process the waiver     MFP note          Decision on the
                                late fees on       decision.                                waiver
                                arrears (and       The waiver                               incorporated in
                                arrears for        decision was                             draft 2008
                                minimum            processed in 2006.                       Budget Bill or
                                consumption)                                                other legal
                                for farmers                                                 document
                                agreeing on a                                               Waiver has
                                repayment                                                   been extended
                                schedule their                                              once, through
                                whole arrears.                                              March 2009.
                                Draft relevant
                                decision.
               c) Strengthen    Decide to          Increase               Exchange of       100% of the        Improved
               maintenance      increase           maintenance            Letters           revenues           efficiency of
               of assets in     maintenance        budgets within         between           generated by       irrigation
               public           budgets within     ORMVA's budgets        MADRPM/           tariff increases   networks in
               irrigation       ORMVA's            by at least the        and MFP           allocated to       public
               perimeters       budgets by an      revenue generated      (MFP              maintenance        irrigation
                                amount at          by tariff increases    approves          This action is     perimeters
                                least equal to                            MADRPM's          not yet            There is
                                the revenue                               proposal)         quantifiable,      modest
                                generated by                                                as tariffs were    progress
                                tariff increases                                            increased in       towards this
                                                                                            2009               outcome. As
                                                                                                               currently
                                                                                                               imperfectly
                                                                                                               measured
                                                                                                               (volume
                                                                                                               billed/volume
                                                                                                               distributed)
                                                                                                               efficiency has
                                                                                                               increased
                                                                                                               from 82% to
                                                                                                               83% between
                                                                                                               2006 and
                                                                                                               2008.
3.3            a) Promote       Finalize TOR       Select consultant      TOR finalized     Consultant         Bid process
Promote        Public Private   to study of        to study                                 contract           launched for
outsourcin     Partnerships     outsourcing of     transaction &                            signed             operations
g of           (PPP) in LSI     irrigation         draft bidding                            Consultants        outsourcing
irrigation     perimeters       service in a       documents                                have already       on a LSI
service,                        pilot perimeter    Consultants have                         begun working      perimeter
consistent                                         begun to study                           on 5 studies       This
with                                               PPP options for                          for 2008-2009.     outcome
ORMVA                                              five ORMVAs.                                                appears
reform                                             The government                                              likely to be
vision                                             has adopted a                                               surpassed
                                                   strong pre-PPP                                              by 2010-
                                                   stance and is                                               2011.
                                                   accelerating
                                                   actions in this
                                                   direction.
Objective 4: Improve access to water supply and sanitation, and increase
wastewater treatment capacity
4.1. Support    a)              Effective          Effective             100% of            100% of            Improved
and optimize    Strengthen      payment of         payment of            indicated amount   indicated          RWS access
sustainable     GOM's           RWSS budget        RWSS budget           of subsidy         amount of          rate and
development     financial       support funds      support funds         disbursed          subsidy to be      service



                                                            48
Main             Sub-            Prior           Milestones          Output            Output           Program
Objectives       objectives      actions         and triggers        criteria          criteria         Outcome
                                 2006            for 2007 and        and/or            and/or           Indicator
                                                 DPL2 (state of      indicator         indicator        2010 and
                                                 advancement         target values     target           level of
                                                 in Jun 2009)        2006              values           achieveme
                                                                                       2007             nt at close
                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                        DPL1(2009)
of Rural         resources to    by GOM, as      by GOM, as per                        disbursed.      sustainability
Water Supply     fund RWSS       per 2006        2007 Finance                          Action achieved in rural areas
and              investment      Finance Bill    Bill. Allocate                        up to LdF 2009 There is
Sanitation                                       adequate public                                       significant
(RWSS)                                           funding to                                            progress
                                                 RWSS needs for                                        towards this
                                                 2008, as                                              outcome.
                                                 programmed.                                           Access to
                                                 The government                                        service has
                                                 has allocated                                         reportedly
                                                 RWS support                                           (according to
                                                 funds for LdF                                         ONEP)
                                                 2007 (MAD 150                                         increased
                                                 million), 2008                                        from 62%
                                                 (MAD 150                                              (2006) to
                                                 million), and                                         87% (2009).
                                                 2009 (MAD 100                                         There is
                                                 million). Budget                                      insufficient
                                                 support to RWS                                        information to
                                                 declined in 2009                                      assess
                                                 due to ONEP's                                         whether
                                                 contractual                                           service
                                                 agreement (as                                         sustainability
                                                 part of its                                           has in fact
                                                 recently signed                                       been
                                                 contrat                                               improved,
                                                 programme) to                                         although
                                                 take on a larger                                      additional
                                                 share of the                                          resources
                                                 RWS expansion                                         have been
                                                 effort.                                               allocated
                                                                                                       toward this
                                                                                                       objective.
4.2 Implement    b) Increase     Payments of     Payments of         100% of           100% of         Funds
the National     State budget    subsidies to    subsidies to        indicated subsidy indicated       committed to
Sanitation       support to      the NSP as      NSP as              amount            subsidy amount pollution
Program          investment      stipulated in   stipulated in       disbursed         to be disbursed control
(NSP) related    in              the Finance     2007 Finance                          Action achieved compatible
to wastewater    wastewater      Bill 2006.      Bill. Allocate                        up to LdF 2009 with plans
collection and   collection &                    adequate public                                       towards 60%
treatment        treatment, in                   funding to NSP                                        abatement of
                 particular                      for 2008, as                                          urban
                 through                         programmed                                            discharge
                 subsidy                         Budget support                                        loads by
                 reallocation                    has been                                              2012
                                                 allocated to the                                      There is
                                                 NSP at the                                            significant
                                                 increasing levels                                     progress
                                                 of commitment:                                        towards this
                                                 MAD 300 million                                       outcome.
                                                 in 2007, MAD
                                                                                                       Pollution
                                                 350 in 2008, and
                                                 MAD 500 million                                       abatement
                                                 in 2009. NSP                                          remains one
                                                 2008-2012 action                                      of two
                                                 plan maintains a                                      principal
                                                 level of                                              objectives,
                                                 commitment at                                         and medium
                                                 MAD 500 million,                                      term goal in
                                                 annually.



                                                         49
Main            Sub-          Prior          Milestones          Output                Output            Program
Objectives      objectives    actions        and triggers        criteria              criteria          Outcome
                              2006           for 2007 and        and/or                and/or            Indicator
                                             DPL2 (state of      indicator             indicator         2010 and
                                             advancement         target values         target            level of
                                             in Jun 2009)        2006                  values            achieveme
                                                                                       2007              nt at close
                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                         DPL1(2009)
                              Formally       Conduct study to    PM decision and       Concept paper     2008-2012
                              adopt NSP      optimize            joint concept         Action            NSP action
                              and publish    investment          paper                 achieved with     plan is to
                              NSPs'          strategies and      (MATEE/MFP/MI         support from      reach 34%
                              subsidy        financing           ) on subsidy          KfW and
                                                                                                         pollution
                              allocation     mechanisms for      allocation criteria   World Bank.
                                                                                                         abatement by
                              criteria and   NSP                 and
                              management     implementation      management                              2012.
                              arrangements   Action achieved     arrangements
                                             with support from
                                             KfW and World
                                             Bank.

4.3 Implement   a) Catch up                  Finalize a                                Strategy          Improved
solutions to    on the WSS                   strategy and                              prepared and      WSS service
promote WSS     service                      program to                                plan financing    access and
service         connection                   catch up on the                           programmed in     sustainability
access in       deficit                      WSS                                       Finance Bill      for urban and
poor urban &                                 connection                                Strategy in       peri-urban
peri-urban                                   deficit. Allocate                         preparation, to   households
areas                                        adequate public                           be finalized in   Progress is
                                             funding to WSS                            Nov 2009.         being made
                                             connection                                                  towards this
                                             needs for 2008,                                             outcome.
                                             as programmed                                               GPOBA pilots
                                             Strategy in                                                 in
                                             preparation, with                                           Casablanca,
                                             the evaluation of                                           Meknes and
                                             and                                                         Tangiers
                                             quantification of                                           have shown
                                             needs almost                                                promising
                                             completed.                                                  results and
                                             Strategy to be                                              discussions
                                             finalized in Nov                                            are in
                                             2009 assuming                                               progress to
                                             inputs from all                                             scale up this
                                             operators are                                               approach.
                                             made in a timely
                                             fashion.




                                                      50
Main              Sub-              Prior             Milestones           Output          Output              Program
Objectives        objectives        actions           and triggers         criteria        criteria            Outcome
                                    2006              for 2007 and         and/or          and/or              Indicator
                                                      DPL2 (state of       indicator       indicator           2010 and
                                                      advancement          target values   target              level of
                                                      in Jun 2009)         2006            values              achieveme
                                                                                           2007                nt at close
                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                               DPL1(2009)
4.4               a) Adopt a bill   Adopt the         Publication of       Bill adopted    Draft decrees       Regulation
Strengthen        that allows for   new Service       subsequent                           to be               reform
the regulatory    delegated         Delegation        application                          submitted           scheme
framework         management        Law. Publish      decrees, and                         Action NOT          proposed to
towards (i)       and defines       its main          standard service                     achieved.           the
improving         associated        application       technical                            ONEP's              Government
performance       mechanisms        decree.           specifications.                      required            Little
and cash-flow     and regulation                      This law was                         exception to        progress
of operators;     procedures                          promulgated                          the new law         has been
and (ii) better   adapted to the                      hastily with                         remains             achieved
take into         water supply                        insufficient time                    unresolved.         towards this
account           and sanitation                      to incorporate                                           outcome.
consumers         sectors                             substantial                                              Although
interests and                                         technical                                                some
expectations                                          comments from                                            regulatory
                                                      key sector actors                                        measures are
                                                      and donor                                                being
                                                      community. It                                            discussed
                                                      has become                                               internally at
                                                      clear that the law                                       MI, there is
                                                      impedes the                                              no
                                                      efficient                                                consultation
                                                      participation of                                         among the
                                                      ONEP in small                                            diverse WSS
                                                      towns and rural                                          actors to
                                                      areas, making                                            elaborate a
                                                      the law largely                                          regulation
                                                      inapplicable as it                                       scheme.
                                                      is. ONEP has
                                                      requested that a
                                                      by-law be
                                                      published
                                                      allowing it an
                                                      exception, but no
                                                      progress has yet
                                                      been made on
                                                      this request.

                                    Launch a study    Implement the        Steering        Progress report
                                    of distribution   study                committee       Phases 1 and 2
                                    restructuring     Phase 1              report          of the study
                                    pilots.           (diagnostic                          have been
                                                      phase) and 2                         completed and
                                                      (presentation to                     recommendatio
                                                      stakeholders of                      ns
                                                      Phase 1) have                        disseminated.
                                                      been completed.                      A final decision
                                                                                           about which
                                                                                           arrangement to
                                                                                           adopt for pilots,
                                                                                           has not been
                                                                                           made.




                                                               51
Main         Sub-          Prior               Milestones           Output          Output             Program
Objectives   objectives    actions             and triggers         criteria        criteria           Outcome
                           2006                for 2007 and         and/or          and/or             Indicator
                                               DPL2 (state of       indicator       indicator          2010 and
                                               advancement          target values   target             level of
                                               in Jun 2009)         2006            values             achieveme
                                                                                    2007               nt at close
                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                       DPL1(2009)
                                               Establish a                          Workgroup
                                               workgroup in                         report
                                               Q1 '07 to assess                     A proposal has
                                               WSS regulation                       been presented
                                               needs and                            to the Minister
                                               options.                             of Interior, but
                                               Regulatory                           not provided to
                                               measures are                         the Bank.
                                               being discussed
                                               internally within
                                               Ministry of
                                               Interior, NOT at
                                               interagency level
                                               (including
                                               operators or
                                               other ministries
                                               or ONEP).
                                               Design a system                      A benchmarking     WSS service
                                               for benchmarking                     system is in       benchmarkin
                                               of cost and                          place, but         g system in
                                               performance                          without ONEP's     place
                                               among private                        participation.     Partial
                                               and public                                              progress
                                               operators.                                              has been
                                               A benchmarking                                          made
                                               system is in                                            towards this
                                               place, but without                                      outcome.
                                               ONEP's                                                  This result is
                                               participation.                                          only partially
                                                                                                       achieved as
                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                       participation
                                                                                                       of ONEP and
                                                                                                       all WSS
                                                                                                       operators is
                                                                                                       essential to a
                                                                                                       meaningful
                                                                                                       national
                                                                                                       benchmarkin
                                                                                                       g effort.
             b) Develop    Prepare TOR         Implement the       TOR and legal    Reorganizatio      Increased
             performance   for a study on      reorganization of   documents        n to be            number of
             based         the                 2 pilot régies      prepared         implemented        public
             contracting   reorganization      Reorganization is                    in 2 régies        operators
             of public     of 2 pilots         still being                          Implementatio      accountable
             operators     régies              developed on a                       n is planned       through
                                               pilot basis in Fez                   for 2010.          service
                                               and Marrakesh.                                          contracts
                           Drafting of legal   Adoption of legal                     Action            Modest
                           documents for       documents for the                    achieved.          progress
                           the new             new financial and                                       has been
                           financial and       accounting                                              achieved
                           accounting          organization of the                                     towards this
                           organization of     régies. Action                                          outcome.
                           régies              achieved.                                               The number




                                                        52
Main         Sub-         Prior     Milestones           Output          Output           Program
Objectives   objectives   actions   and triggers         criteria        criteria         Outcome
                          2006      for 2007 and         and/or          and/or           Indicator
                                    DPL2 (state of       indicator       indicator        2010 and
                                    advancement          target values   target           level of
                                    in Jun 2009)         2006            values           achieveme
                                                                         2007             nt at close
                                                                                          of
                                                                                          DPL1(2009)
                                    Start the study                      Study to be      of operators
                                    for the                              carried out.     accountable
                                    development of                       This action      through
                                    the regulatory                       has been         service
                                    model and                            achieved and     contracts has
                                    regulatory                           surpassed as     not changed
                                    accounting in the                    a regulatory     since the
                                    régies. Set-up                       accounting       onset of this
                                    regulatory                           model is now     operation.
                                    accounting                           being
                                    capacities.                          implemented.
                                    A regulatory
                                    accounting
                                    model has been
                                    adopted by the
                                    régies
                                    autonomes and
                                    is reportedly
                                    encountering
                                    great success.
                                    MI's proposed
                                    2010 budget
                                    emerges from
                                    this model.
                                    Drafting of                          Draft standard
                                    standard                             agreement.
                                    agreements                           In progress.
                                    between ONEP
                                    and the local
                                    collectivities and
                                    between the
                                    operators and
                                    the local
                                    collectivities.
                                    Standard
                                    agreements
                                    should indicate
                                    performance
                                    management and
                                    reporting
                                    arrangements.
                                    A new standard
                                    agreement is
                                    being drafted
                                    following the
                                    adoption of the
                                    new Service
                                    Delegation law,
                                    and will
                                    reportedly be
                                    submitted shortly
                                    to MI (DGCL).




                                             53
Main         Sub-               Prior             Milestones             Output           Output            Program
Objectives   objectives         actions           and triggers           criteria         criteria          Outcome
                                2006              for 2007 and           and/or           and/or            Indicator
                                                  DPL2 (state of         indicator        indicator         2010 and
                                                  advancement            target values    target            level of
                                                  in Jun 2009)           2006             values            achieveme
                                                                                          2007              nt at close
                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                            DPL1(2009)
                                Signature of       Develop ONEP's        Contrat          ONEP Annual
                                the 2006-2009      financial             Programme        reports.
                                Contrat-           reporting for         signed           First annual
                                Programme by       regulatory                             report would
                                State & ONEP       purposes                               be issued for
                                                   The Contrat-                           2009.
                                                   programme was
                                                   signed on Oct
                                                   31, 2008 for
                                                   2008-2010. It
                                                   includes an
                                                   investment plan
                                                   and performance
                                                   indicator
                                                   definition and
                                                   reporting.
             c) Design          Establishment of Validation of the       Minutes of the   Legal document
             and                a working group results of the           working group    for the
             implement          for the            working group;        meeting          implementation
             more               preparation and drafting of the          presenting       of the chosen
             efficient tariff   analysis of tariff necessary legal       reform options   option drafted.
             structures         reform options     document for the      TA               No progress
             and tariff         and the            implementation of                      made on this
                                                                                                          Tariff structure
             adjustment         development of these results.                             action.
                                                                                                          reform
             mechanisms         associated         No progress made
                                                                                                          completed and
             towards            procedures         to discuss or
                                                                                                          tariff regulation
             manage                                prepare a tariff
                                                                                                          reform
             performance                           reform. The last
                                                                                                          engaged
             and                                   tariff structure
                                                                                                          There has
             promoting                             adjustment dates
                                                                                                          been no
             access to                             back to 2006, and
                                                                                                          progress
             service                               encountered
                                                                                                          regarding tariff
                                                   significant social
                                                                                                          structure
                                                   opposition due to
                                                                                                          reform since
                                                   poor design, timing
                                                                                                          2006.
                                                   and combination
                                                   with inclusion of
                                                   7% VAT in water
                                                   bills. The PSIA II
                                                   study is expected
                                                   to inform future
                                                   tariff reform
                                                   discussion.




                                                           54
Main         Sub-         Prior            Milestones       Output          Output             Program
Objectives   objectives   actions          and triggers     criteria        criteria           Outcome
                          2006             for 2007 and     and/or          and/or             Indicator
                                           DPL2 (state of   indicator       indicator          2010 and
                                           advancement      target values   target             level of
                                           in Jun 2009)     2006            values             achieveme
                                                                            2007               nt at close
                                                                                               of
                                                                                               DPL1(2009)
                          Validation of    Complete phase 2 TOR validated   PSIA report
                          the TOR for      PSIA. Disseminate                validated.
                          phase 2 of the   findings &                       Seminar
                          Poverty and      integrate into tariff            minutes issued.
                          Social Impact    structure reform.                PSIA 2 is
                          Analysis         The PSIA 2 study                 completed and
                          (PSIA)           has been                         has been
                                           completed and                    presented to the
                                           presented to the                 government.
                                           government,
                                           illustrating impacts
                                           of tariff
                                           adjustments on the
                                           poor and
                                           vulnerable. It is
                                           expected to
                                           contribute
                                           meaningfully to
                                           future discussions
                                           about tariff reform
                                           and subsidies in
                                           the water sector.




                                                  55
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
   Annex 5. Government of Morocco's Policy Letter dated December 19, 2006
(Unofficial translation of French of original attached to minutes of negotiation of December 5, 2006, and
signed December 19, 2006)


Kingdom of Morocco
The Prime Minister

No. 01767

Mr. Paul D. Wolfowitz
President of the World Bank
Washington, DC, USA

Subject: Letter of Development Policy for the Water Sector

Mr. President,

The water sector benefits from particular attention from Morocco's administration. The development of
water resources has indeed always been at the heart of the nation's economic policies, as it is of crucial
importance for irrigated agriculture and for the water and food security of the country.

Within this framework and since the country's independence, Morocco has conducted a dynamic policy to
promote access to water which included the development of a solid water mobilization and water supply
infrastructure for urban and agricultural needs.

Today, this policy which has bolstered the country's development, calls for new sector reforms to
consolidate the efforts deployed so far and to meet the new challenges facing the water sector.


I. CURRENT WATER SECTOR SITUATION

Since the 1960s, the Government has given priority to developing its water resources. In this regard,
important progress has been achieved in the water mobilization sector to satisfy the needs of the population
and the development of irrigation:

    -    Water resource mobilization has been achieved through an important dam construction program
         which has increased the number of dams from 12 to 114. This increase has led to a 80%
         mobilization rate for surface water and a nine-fold increase in water storage capacity, i.e., from 1.8
         billion m3 to 16 billion m3 at present.
    -    The objective of developing 1 million hectares of irrigated land has been exceeded given that the
         total irrigated area currently represents 1.4 million hectares. Irrigation generates on average 45%
         of Morocco's agricultural added-value and supports 75% of agricultural exports. Farmer revenues
         have also increased 5 to 13 times, depending on the specific irrigation scheme. The sectors for
         public works, industry, service provision and agro-industry have also registered a positive impact
         due to the increase in irrigated area.
    -    Urban water supply has also been a focus of sector policy as shown by the 90% potable water
         access rate in urban areas. Since the mid-1990s, access to rural water access has also become a
         priority and a Water Supply Program for Rural Populations (PAGER) was implemented. The
         potable access rate in rural areas increased from 14% in 1995 to 73% in June 2006.

In 1995, a water sector reform process was launched to promote efficient and sustainable resource
management, as described below:



                                                     67
    -    Water Law No. 10/95 amended the institutional framework for water resource management with
         the introduction of modern water resource management principles, an integrated approach
         according to type of water use, a decentralized management scheme at the river basin level, water
         users' contribution and participation, the implementation of economic incentives (e.g., the "user
         pays/polluter pays" policy), and the introduction of enforcement instruments through a "water
         police" force.
    -    Water Basin Plans (PDAIREs) were launched to improve sustainable water resource management
         at the water basin level through user participation and to improve living conditions of the
         population.
    -    A National Water Plan was also initiated to define the general trend of water sector policies and
         identify cohesion mechanisms and instruments needed for the integration of regional water plans
         into the national framework.
    -    The creation of River Basin Agencies has ensured an integrated, decentralized and participatory
         management style.

In spite of the achievements cited above, Morocco must now face new challenges, namely: the degradation
of water resources; increasing water scarcity due to population growth and economic development;
groundwater depletion; the increasing cost of water mobilization; and dam capacity losses due to climatic
changes and siltation. In addition, the water sector also faces of issues of renewal, rehabilitation and
strengthening of its existing infrastructure.

Thus, several constraints must be addressed, both at the water sub-sector level and in the institutional
framework of water management.

The main constraints facing the potable water and sanitation domain concern the uneven water access rate
between urban areas, rural areas and poor peri-urban neighborhoods, as well as the severe lack of
wastewater treatment facilities, the high cost of wastewater collection and treatment investments, and the
over-burdened water mobilization schemes of certain large cities.

Agricultural sector challenges include: the existing gap between irrigation water demands and availability
of water resource storage for this and other uses; worn out irrigation infrastructure in need of upgrading; the
dominance of inefficient surface irrigation methods; and the limitation of ORMVAs' institutional
framework which curtails their role in developing sustainable water service delivery and which does not
clearly separate their public service and development missions from commercial water service delivery.

Water resource management is also hampered by lack of sector and policy planning due to poor
coordination between sub-sectors, thus impeding the development of a rational and sufficiently coherent
water resource management policy.

In spite of the State's considerable budgetary efforts in favor of the water sector, optimized resource
reallocations between sub-sectors will be required to ensure better rationalization of public investment.

Thus, to consolidate achievements to date and to correct malfunctions, the Government is committed to
supporting reform efforts in the water sector. Accordingly, sector adjustment operations were engaged
with the European Union in 2001 and with the African Development Bank in 2003.

Government support has also been instrumental in progress achieved in water sector reforms through:
support to the implementation of integrated and decentralized water resource management with seven river
basins; correcting the delays incurred in implementing the Water Law; promoting the public-private
partnership in irrigation, potable water supply and sanitation; and improved dialogue on water issues
through the creation of the Interministerial Water Commission.

In 2004, a water and sanitation sector review prepared with the World Bank's help presented a diagnostic
of the water sector situation, and identified existing constraints to sustainable water resource development
while formulating possible reform options.




                                                      68
In the aftermath of the 2004 sector review, the preparation of the Water Sector Development Policy Loan
(DPL) represents one of the objectives of 2006-2009 Country Assistance Strategy agreed by the
Government and the World Bank. The DPL will thus support reforms planned for improved sector
governance, integrated water resources management, irrigation, potable water supply and sanitation. The
preparation of the DPL is accompanied by a multi-annual assistance program (ndlt: Programmatic
Economic Sector Work) conducted with the World Bank to finance strategic activities, including studies,
technical assistance and training seminars.


II. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR WATER SECTOR MANAGEMENT

The new water policy initiated by the Government is based on the following principles: (a) integrated
water resource management; (b) a realignment of sector policies, until now focused on increasing the
supply and availability of water, towards management of water demands aimed at preserving the quality
and quantity of available water resources, and towards improved operators' performance by implementing
institutional and service regulation mechanisms.

Within this framework, the main objectives of water sector reform are to: (a) improve sector governance;
(b) complete and enact integrated water resource management reform; (c) ensure better water service
delivery, sustainable investments and improved productivity of water usage in irrigated areas; (e) improve
access to potable water and sanitation, and increase the levels of water treatment and purification facilities;
and (g) ensure wider access to sustainable water supplies in areas lacking adequate infrastructure.

In order to achieve these objectives, the water sector reform includes a series of structural and institutional
measures which will strengthen strategy efficiency and operator performance in the sector.

1. Improve Sector Governance

Government will implement the following measures to ensure policy and strategy coordination and
coherence:

         The Interministerial Water Commission's (CIE's) mandate will be reactivated by a 2006 circular
         letter which will establish CIE's responsibility for coordinating government programs and
         strategies in the water sector and for formulating proposals on sector investment and
         implementation priorities. CIE will convene twice a year and its recommendations will be taken
         into consideration for the draft budget bill of the incoming year. CIE's permanent secretariat will
         be ensured by the Ministry in charge of water.

         The standing committee of the High Council on Water and Climate (CSEC) will also be
         reactivated according to conditions set forth in its initiating decree. Meetings will be scheduled to
         discuss progress achieved in the application of CSEC recommendations and any other issues
         related to water and climate sector policies.

         The water sector administration's structure will be revised to ensure mission compatibility and to
         formalize sector regulations. In this regard, Government will launch a study on the water sector
         structure in early 2007 to clarify accountability for defining and implementing sector policies and
         to effectively integrate sub-sector programs. The study's findings will be presented to CIE in
         2008.

         A consolidated medium-term water budget planning system will be developed. A Medium-Term
         Expenditure Framework (MTEF) will be implemented as of 2007 in the Ministry of Regional
         Planning, Water and Environment and in the Secretariat for Water, to be extended to other line
         water ministries in 2008. Thus, public budget allocations will be better monitored to effectively
         target state budget objectives. The budget reform currently underway in Morocco will thus
         coordinate contributions from sector stakeholders.



                                                      69
         Strengthening of governance and better operator management will be achieved through formal
         contracting of services. This approach was adopted as an intermediate phase to prepare public
         sector enterprises to meet the required criteria for contrats-programmes as set forth in the public
         sector financial control law. A contrat-programme between ONEP and Government is currently
         being finalized for the period 2006-2009.

         Government will also implement a national water information system to initially help consolidate
         an information database and to ultimately set up a water observatory unit.

2. Complete and enact integrated water resources management reform

In order to reach these objectives, the key actions will focus on:

         Strengthening the river basin agencies (RBAs) by defining clearly their mission regarding resource
         monitoring, planning and management, and for the promotion of public hydraulic assets
         preservation. The O&M responsibility for hydraulic assets will be transferred to RBAs by
         contract which will also define their scope and funding. In that context, joint by-laws transferring
         responsibility of public hydraulic assets to RBAs will be updated in 2007.

         Preparing and establishing prerequisites to implement "contrats-plans" between the Government
         and RBAs, so that by 2009 contrats-plans can be in effect for all RBAs.
         Establishing river basin committees (RBCs) for each river basin through the issuance of a circular
         letter in 2006 to improve user and community representation and participation in RBA decision
         processes.
         Extending the collection of withdrawal charges to unconnected industries, households, industrial
         users, and irrigation users outside ORMVA/RBA conventions.
         Establishing and enforcing charges for ocean discharge of wastewater, so that resulting revenues
         can be applied to pollution control programs.
         Elaborating on the possibility to review modalities and level of water charges recovered by RBAs
         to enable an increase in their financial autonomy.
         Aquifer conservation: the preparation of a national strategy to control aquifer overexploitation
         and pollution will be initiated in 2007. The final design of this strategy will be submitted to CIE
         in 2008 and two pilot conservation operations will be launched.
         Regarding water pollution control, the Government will take all necessary measures to effectively
         implement existing regulations and empower formal water quality monitoring and enforcement
         capacities.
         Improving the sustainability of hydraulic assets, including through sedimentation control, by
         strengthening water basin development integrated programs according to the National Watershed
         Conservation Program.
         Initiating a revision of the Water Law to submit an amendment draft to CIE in 2008 and present it
         to Parliament's approval in 2009. The main objectives of the update of the Water Law 10-95 and
         its by-laws would be i) to update river basin agencies' missions and resources for consistency; ii)
         to better specify the planning process and interface between the National Water Plan and the
         PDAIREs, as well as the roles of the central administration entity in charge of water resources, of
         the river basin committees, of the High Council on Water and Climate and of river basin agencies
         in the preparation of these strategic documents; iii) to strengthen water users' and local
         governments' participation in the institutions in charge of water resource coordination,
         consultation, and management; and iv) to clarify and simplify the delimitation procedures for the
         public hydraulic assets.




                                                      70
3. Improve water service, ensure asset sustainability and raise use efficiency in irrigation

Regarding the irrigation sub-sector, the Government will take necessary measures to: i) increase the
efficiency of on-farm irrigation water usage; ii) improve water cost recovery and asset management in
public irrigation perimeters; iii) promote the outsourcing of irrigation water service as part of a global
vision of ORMVA reform; iv) reduce the amount of undeveloped irrigation surfaces downstream of
existing dams, in particular through public-private financing partnerships.

In that regard, the Government's strategy will include:

         The preparation in 2006 of the National Plan for Conservation of Irrigation Water (NIWCP) which
         will become a national priority to be implemented from 2008 onwards;

         The encouragement of use of irrigation techniques to save water and raise its on-farm use
         efficiency in simplifying subsidy grant procedures and increasing subsidy rate to farmer's projects
         for conversion to efficient irrigation systems;

         The establishment of a Tariff Adjustment Plan for ORMVAs, with a continued high collection rate
         of services fees;

         The assessment and grant of incentives to farmers agreeing on a repayment schedule of their
         whole arrears;

         The improvement of ORMVA technical and management performance with the objective of
         separating the water service from the accounting of other ORMVA missions, in order to establish
         Contrats-Plans (CPs) in 2007 to rule mutual obligations with the State;

         A decision to increase ORMVAs' maintenance budgets by an amount at least equal to the revenue
         generated by tariff increases;

         The promotion of public-private partnerships in LSI perimeters. In this context, the transaction
         preparation study for outsourcing of irrigation service in a pilot perimeter is being launched in
         2006 to be completed in 2008, and launch the bidding process for the delegation of service in
         scheduled for 2009.

4. Improve access to water supply and sanitation, and increase wastewater treatment capacity

Regarding the water supply and sanitation sector, the Government's objectives are to: i) generalize access
to water supply in rural areas by continuing the PAGER program and promoting the sustainability f the
AEPAR rural water supply and sanitation program; ii) improve access to drinking water distribution and
sanitation service in urban areas, especially in poor urban and peri-urban areas; iii) develop sanitation and
wastewater treatment capacities taking into account the water pollution reduction necessity. The water
supply and sanitation distribution sub-sector is therefore an essential component of the sector
modernization and demand management reforms.

While acknowledging the complexity of the sector and the multiplicity of stakeholders, the Government
will strengthen the regulatory framework and pursue tariff reform in order to promote performance and
increase working capital of sector operators, and to develop accountability towards consumers' interests.

Regarding sanitation and water reuse, a National Sanitation Program (NSP) was engaged in 2006. The
implementation convention of the NSP 2006 tranche was signed in June 2006. The NSP objective is to
reduce water pollution loads by 60% in 2010 and by 80% in 2015, and extend sanitation network of 80% of
the urban households by 2020. The Government is committed to support and implement this program to
reach expected results. To do so, the Government will reinforce public aid to sanitation and wastewater
treatment investments by reallocating financial resources to this sector. Hence, by 2006, allocated
subsidies will be paid, and allocation criteria and management arrangements will be established. A study
on the optimization of investment strategies and NSP financing mechanisms will be conducted starting
2007.


                                                     71
In order to promote wastewater reuse, a strategy will be prepared aiming at establishing, by 2009, an
appropriate institutional framework, and to develop an operational best practice manual. The Government
will also prepare and implement a National Drinking Water Conservation Program (NDWCP) in order to
promote drinking water conservation to operators, industries and users. In regards to RWSS, the
Government will increase financial resources targeting investments in RWSS and, among other things, pay
subsidies planned in Finance Bills, elaborate and implement a system insuring service sustainability, and
publish and enforce the by-laws related to on-site sanitation. In order to catch up on the connection deficit
to WSS services in poor urban and peri-urban areas, the Government will, in 2007, finalize the preparation
of a program to implement connection solutions for these areas. It is worth noting that the National
Initiative for Human Development (2006-2010), also supported by the World Bank, aims to improve
conditions and quality of life of urban population. To do so, projects will be implemented to increase
access to basic social services and to strengthen infrastructure in 264 urban areas. The Government's
"Cities without Slums" program, led by the Government, also includes connections of population targeted
by the program.

Concurrently, a study for the restructuring of water, sanitation and electricity distribution services, also
supported by the World Bank, is currently being launched. This study will allow to determine constraints
and measures to be implemented in order to optimize projects to aim at multi-service distribution. This
new organization will allow communes to regroup themselves to implement a project for their common
interest while realizing economies of scale and preventing fragmentation.

In terms of sector oversight and organization, several projects are currently being prepared and will be
launched in 2007. These projects are in line with the institutional and procedural framework of selection of
operators, and will be accompanied by monitoring and regulation mechanisms. These projects touch on the
following aspects:

         Public service oversight and regulation: The Service Delegation Law offers to communes an
         appropriate framework for the selection and award of public service management outsourcing
         solutions. This framework remains to be completed and improved by institutional mechanisms to
         organize and regulate operators' activities. The strengthening of such mechanisms is urgently
         needed for existing contracts of service delegation.
         Contractualization of public service management: Whatever the legal status of the operator or
         service provider, their relationship with the served community will have to be contractualized.
         This process will establish the objectives to be reached, the preservation of managed assets which
         remain property of the community, and the definition of mutual obligations.

In this context, an analysis will be conducted on the needs and options of medium-term regulation reform.
In the short term, an initiative to benchmark water and sewerage distribution services across public and
private operators will be launched, towards measuring and publishing of homogenous performance and cost
indicators.

Continued water and sanitation tariff reform is also a key element of the overall water sector reform. For
several years already, the authorities have engaged the conceptualization of a restructuring of current tariff
systems, and their adaptation to the new socio-economic constraints and to the demands built into the
integrated water resource management objectives of the Water Law 10-95. A national study of water and
sanitation tariff systems has thus been completed in 2006, providing an up to date tariff system diagnostic,
a cost and revenue simulator for each production and distribution operator, and a range of tariff
restructuring scenarios.

A first milestone in tariff reform has also become effective in March 2006 with the publication of new
potable water tariff decrees carrying several tariff adjustment provisions, including the increase of the fixed
part of the tariff, the narrowing of the first tariff block (tranche sociale) from 8 to 6 m3/month, and the
gradual matching of tariff structures (i.e. transition from block tariff to single tariff) for the tourism industry
with those of general industry. Concurrently, a 3.5% increase in bulk potable water production tariffs was
enacted in 2006.


                                                        72
These efforts will be continued in the short and medium term to achieve tariffs structures towards better
targeting of aid to the poor, better accountability for demand management and water scarcity, improved
operator efficiency, and harmonization of cross-subsidies among users and in between sectors to promote
equity and service access.

The Government is also determined to elaborate and enact tariff adjustment mechanisms taking efficiency
criteria into greater account, aimed at promoting operator performance and transparency. To that effect, an
initiative to update tariff reform options and roadmap is engaged in 2006. This work will result in the
preparation of reform implementation texts and retained tariff adjustment rules, to be adopted in 2008. The
results of an in-depth study of poverty and social impacts analysis (PSIA), supported by your institution,
will be taken into account for the design of tariff regulation reforms.


III. MONITORING AND IMPLEMENTATION

A Steering Committee has been created, headed by the Ministry of Economic and General Affairs,
including the ministries and agencies involved in the water sector. This Committee, which led the reform
discussions and oversaw preparation of the DPL, will also be responsible for monitoring and implementing
this program. The Committee will ensure progress assessments on implementation and will submit annual
progress reports. The Steering Committee is also responsible for monitoring the multi-annual sector
assistance program (PESW) prepared with the World Bank in support of the DPL.

As main decision-maker, the Interministerial Water Commission, headed by the Prime Minister, holds a
pivotal monitoring role to ensure successful implementation of the reform.

The Government is fully aware that cohesion and coordination of program objectives and reform elements
are crucial to ensure success. To this end, the Government is planning to develop a communication strategy
to define the messages, identify target audiences and allocate appropriate resources to achieve these goals.

The Government of Morocco hereby reiterates its commitment to providing adequate financing, for priority
programs, such as the National Irrigation Water Conservation Program, the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Program, the National Sanitation Plan, the National Watershed Conservation Program as well as
efforts underway to compensate for connection deficits in water supply and sanitation. The Government
relies on World Bank support to provide an appropriate DPL loan to dynamically and successfully
accompany this series of reforms.

We are grateful for the World Bank's interest in Morocco's water sector.

Sincerely,


Driss Jettou

Prime Minister




                                                    73
                    Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

1. Program Document (report No. 37442-MA) and Loan Agreement No. 7444-MOR.
2. Aide-memoires and post-mission letters of GOM for missions of June 2007, November
    2007, and June-July 2008.
3. Implementation Supervision Report for June-July 2008 mission.
4. Morocco Water Sector Policy Note, World Bank 2004.
5. Mechanisms and Flow of Funds in the Moroccan Water Sector, World Bank April 2008.
6. PSIA I - Poverty and Social Impact Assessment I for the Morocco Water Sector DPL,
    World Bank 2006.
7. PSIA II - Analyse de l'Impact Social et sur la Pauvreté des Réformes du Secteur de l'Eau
    et de l'Assainissement au Maroc, by SG2S Consultants for the GOM and UNDP-
    Morocco, December 2007.
8. Quality Assurance Group report regarding Quality at Entry, October 2007.
9. Etude de Restructuration des Services de Distribution d'Electricité, d'Eau et
    d'Assainissement dans Deux Zones Pilotes ­ Maroc, by SGI, ICEA, CID consultants for
    GOM, World Bank and PPIAF, June 2008.
10. Supporting Documents provided by MAEG, SEEE, MI, MAPM, MEF, ONEP and HCEF
    for the ICR review.




                                          74
