                                                                                                         95248
Results Profile: Morocco Water & Sanitation                                                          March 5, 2010




 MANAGING WATER IN MOROCCO

 Reforms promote sustainability and greater access to piped
 water and sewage services




Overview
Morocco faces challenges in managing and using its water resources more sustainably, as well
as in developing equitable and efficient water supply and sanitation services. IBRD worked with
Morocco on a range of water reforms that led to a greater emphasis on resource preservation
and water efficiencies, with particular focus on irrigation. These reforms also contributed to a
jump in the number of rural people with access to potable water, and in the number of poor
peri-urban households connected to piped water and sewage services.




Challenge
Scarce and unevenly distributed rainfall has made water a
                                                                   More Results
key economic and social development issue in Morocco. The
country has invested heavily in dams, water supply capacity

                                                                   87%
and large-scale irrigation systems, to secure water for urban
and agricultural demands. While largely successful, this
strong supply focus was not accompanied by balancing
policies aimed at sustainability, such as water demand             Of rural Moroccans had access
                                                                   to potable water in 2009, up
management, water resource conservation and protection,            from 50% in 2004
and equitable service development in rural and poor
communities. Morocco’s water management strategies
needed to adapt to meet a number of challenges: growing
                                                                  MORE INFORMATION
water deficits, persisting gaps in service access, slow
changes in legislation, limited infrastructure programs,            World Bank in Morocco
pressing demographic growth, and climate change.                    Morocco Country Brief

                                                                    Water: Middle East and North
Approach                                                            Africa

In 2007, a $100 million Morocco Water Sector development
policy loan supported comprehensive water reform in
                                                                  PARTNERS
Morocco to address legislative, institutional, financing, and
planning gaps, and inefficiencies in Morocco’s water sector.        Morocco Secretariat of Water
Prior to the loan, IBRD supported extensive analytical work         and Environment 
and capacity building with $2.2 million and another $8.5            Agence Française de
million in trust fund grants. This analytical work, along with      Développement (AFD)
unprecedented levels of inter-ministerial dialogue, led to a        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
reform program in which water-demand management,                    (KFW)
conservation and resource protection became new thrusts in
                                                                    African Development Bank
Morocco’s water strategy. Investments were designed to
build infrastructure while supporting implementation of new
policies by central and decentralized agencies on the
ground, such as for irrigation modernization and resource
conservation, rural water supply, peri-urban service             
development and urban sanitation.


Results
Morocco is now on track to exceed the targets for water and sanitation services contained in
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), thanks to greater public spending on water supply
and sanitation infrastructure. Between 2005 and 2009, public expenditure in support of urban,
peri-urban, and rural water supply and sanitation infrastructure programs rose to 25 percent
from 5 percent of the total public expenditure for water (which also covers water resource
management and irrigation). As a result of acceleration of rural water supply programs,
including a $60 million IBRD-financed project, potable water access has risen to over 87
percent in 2009 from 50 percent in 2004.
 
The government has also placed new emphasis on water management policies, including
development of new alternatives, such as desalination and water reuse. The MAD 34 billion
National Irrigation Water Efficiency Program, launched in 2008, is aimed at generating water
efficiency gains of 30-to-50 percent by converting conventional irrigation systems to water-
saving technology. The World Bank Group also is assisting with the development of an
innovative desalination private-public partnership in the Souss-Massa region, to complement
irrigation resources and conserve groundwater.


Toward the Future
Besides the implementation of on-going projects, next steps in the water partnership with the
Government of Morocco may include policy dialogue and lending to accompany further reforms
and investment for climate change adaptation of water resources management, irrigation sector
modernization, water supply and sanitation sector reorganization and regulation, and
nationwide replication of peri-urban connection pilots.
