'-~~~~ ~ ~~~     ~                           . e
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i7       C          N / 410     -!t/ L               Report No. 8133-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 5, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Africa Country Department IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
|r*! '! 'duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURREi,CY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    Cedi (¢)
US$1                             0 ¢340
¢1                               US$0.0029
SDR 1.0              =           US$1.32384
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and
measures used in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)       =            2202 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)              =          2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)            =          0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                 =          3.28 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)           =           0.04 inch (in)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Agricultural Development Bank
ASRP           Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
COCOBOD        Ghana Cocoa Board
COSD           Cocoa Service Division of COCOBOD
CRI            Crops Research Institute
CRIG           Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana
CSD            Crop Services Department of MOA
CSPWD          Cape St. Paul Wilt Disease
DRC            Domestic Resource Cost
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FFB            Fresh Fruit Bunch of Oil Palm
FAO/Bank CP    Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program
GCAA           Ghana Civil Aviation Authority
GEPC           Ghana Export Promotion Council
GHA            Ghana Horticultural Association
GPHA           Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
GOG            Government of Ghana
GOPDC          Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
GREL           Ghana Rubber Estates Limited
ITSPM          Intermediate Technology Small-Scale Palm Oil Mill
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MTADP          Medium Term Agricultural Development Program
NGO            Non-Governmental Organiza^tion
NOPL           National Oil Palm Limited
OPRI           Oil Palm Research Institute
PBC            Produce Buying Company of COCOBOD
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PIC            Project Implementation Committee
PNDC           Provisional National Defense Council
PPAR           Project Performance Audit Report
RSS            Ribbed Smoked Sheet
SME            Private Small and Medium Enterprises Project
SOE            Statements of Expenditure
SPGC           Sam-Sam Pineapple Growers' Cooperative
SSVD           Swollen Shoot Virus Disease
TSR            Technically Specified Rubber
VORADEP        Volta Region Agricultural Development Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                              ii
I.    INTRODUCTION        ...............................................  1
II.   ECONOMIC SETTING ........   ...........................            2
III.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...................................        3
The Tree Crops Subsector ................................      7
Horticulture Crops ......................................     11
Past Lessons ..........................................       14
Rationale for IDA Involvement ...........................     15
IV.  THE PROJECT ................................................       16
A.  Project Objectives .....................................      16
B.  Project Description ....................................      16
C.  Detailed Features .......................................     18
D.  Project Costs and Financing .............................     23
E.  Project Implementation ..................................     29
V.  PRODUCTION AND PROFITABILITY .39
A. Profitability .39
B. Environmental Effects .43
C. Justification and Benefits .44
D. Project Risks .45
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................     46
ANNEXES
2.01      Key Economic Indicators, 1985-92
3.01      Labour Supply in the Forest Zone
3.02      Constraints and Potential for Oil Palm, Coffee and Rubber
3.03      Sensitivity Analysis on the Demand for Palm Oil
4.01      Project Costs by Year, Component and Summary Accounts
4.02      Schedule of Disbursements
4.03      Project Organization Chart
4.04      Project Implementation Schedule



- ii -
5.01      Economic eud Financial Prices, Crop Budgets
and Oil Palm Hill Budget
5.02      Intermediate Technology Small-Scale Palm Oi'. Mill
5.03      Pineapple Crop Budget
5.04      Economic Rate of Return
6.01      Documents Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 21982 : Ghana - Rainfall and Ecological Zones
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission (April
1989) comprising Messrs./Mmes. S. Singh, C. Carlier, K.G.B. Singh (Bank);
R. Lacroix, L. Hunt, P. Reiling (Consultants), and an appraisal mission
(June 1989) comprising Mr. S. Singh, Ms. K.G.B. Singh, Mr. C. Carlier.
MH. P.F.K.F. Ah-Kee prepared the economic and financial tables.
Mrs. S. Sunderland provided secretarial support and operations assistance.



- iii - 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Agriculture, Ghana Cocoa Board
(COCOBOD); Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
(GOPDC): Ghana Rubber Estates Limited (GREL);
Ghana Export Promotion Council (GEPC);
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB).
Credit Amount:            SDR 12.5 million (US$16.5 million equivalent).
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:          The Government of Ghana (GOG) would onlend US$4.1
million to GOPDC and US$2.4 million to GREL in
cedi terms at variable and market determined
rates equal to the average rates paid by primary
banks for term deposits with repayment over 30
years and foreign exchange risk to be borne by
the Borrower. COCOBOD would receive US$3.0
million and ADB US$0.7 million as equity
contribution. US$6.3 million would be for grant
budgetary support to MOA and GEPC.
Proiect Description:      The project would assist the GOG to (i) provide
extension and inputs for 3,500 ha of outgrower
oil palm planting; (ii) strengthen extension and
research for the rehabilitation of 1,500 ha and
the planting of 3,000 ha of coffee; (iii) develop
extension and provide inputs for 1,200 ha of
outgrower rubber planting; (iv) provide
technical, marketing and infrastructure support
for the export of horticultural produce,
especially pineapples; and (iv) improve the
productivity of ADB operations. Project funds
are also provided for technical assistance
training and studies.



- iv -
Estimated Costs:                       Local          Fo;:eign         Total
------------(US$ million)----------
Oil Palm Outgrowers and Mills           2.8            3.5              6.3
Coffee Extension and Research           1.3            2.3              3.6
Rubber Outgrowers and Extension         0.9            2.0              2.9
Horticulture Promotion and Extension  1.4              2.5              3.9
Credit Institution Strengthening        0.1            0.5              0.6
Project Coordination and Monitoring   0.1              0.1              0.2
Total Base Costs                   6.6          10.9              17.5
Physical Contingencies                  0.7            0.6              1.3
Price Contingencies                     1.6            2.0              3.6
Total Project Costs 1/             8.9          13.5             22.4
1/  Including US$2.0 million of taxes and duties.
Proposed Financing Plan:
IDA                                3.0          13.5               16.5
Government of Ghana                4.3             _                4.3
Farmers                            1.6                              1.6
8.9          13.5              22.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year:      91     92      93     94      95     96      97     98
-------------------(US$ million) -------------------
Annual             0.2    1.7    2.7    3.7    3.0    2.5    1.8    0.9
Cumulative         0.2    1.9    4.6    8.3   11.3   13.8   15.6   16.5
Project Benefits
and Risks:                The project would help increase annual production
of palm oil by about 6,650 tons; coffee by 3,600
tons and rubber by 1,700 tons; which,
respectively, would be about 10, 200 and 80
percent of current production. In addition, the
project would be instrumental in boosting export
pineapple production from the current 7,000 tons
per annum to 20,000 tons in 5 years. It would
promote private sector investment in smallholder
tree crop planting and low-cost agro-processing
through improved management, extension and input
supplies. It would enhance private sector
participation in horticultural production and in
particular in fresh pineapple exports through
improved marketing and export infrastructure and



- v -
technical extension. Palm oil is a basic
consumpticon item and increased production would
help alleviate domestic shortage. Rubber, coffee
and pineapples are agricultural exports which
would help alleviate the foreign exchange
shortage and reduce dependence of the economy on
cocoa exports. Sectoral and pricing reforms
would help towards creating market-based
competition and consequential efficiency in the
production of these crops. There are risks of a
macro-nature in the form of a reversal in the
current favorable trade and incentive framework
leading to lower producer prices and therefore
lower private investment. Other risks relate
mainly to the inability of the government to
carry out effectively the initiatives of improved
extension, research and physical infrastructure.
However, the individual components of the project
have sufficient robustness to cope with adverse
conditions and IDA initiatives in this and other
existing and proposed projects help to minimize
the risks.
Economic
Rate of Return:           23 percent



REPUBLIC OF GHf.NA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01.     At the Consultative Group meeting for Ghana early 1989, the
Covernment reiterated its policy, outlined in its Statement of Agricultural
Policy, 1987, to diversify agricultural production and exports. This new
strategy with wider focus, designed to bring within its purview several
areas of comparative advantage such as tree crops, horticulture crops,
selected cash crops and livestock, is significant on two counts; first, for
greater efficiency in resource use and, second, for the enhancement,
diversification, and stabilization of smallholder incomes. Both these are
priority Government objectives strongly endorsed and supported by the Bank.
Diversification, however, is a broad concept, is generally a slow process
best pursued only in stages, and effective only when based on the principle
of comparative advantage. In the case of Ghana, diversification is thus
pursued not only to reduce the country's vulnerability due to excessive
dependence on cocoa and gold for export earnings and revenue but also to
promote growth. Various DRC analyses have shown that Ghana has a
comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops other than cocoa,
specifically, ir. that of oil palm, rubber, robusta coffee and coconut 1/.
In March 1987, the Government expressed an interest in IDA assistance for a
Tree Crops project, but requested in 1988, that the scope be extended to
include horticulture crops. Two FAO/Bank CP missions, in May-June 1988 and
September-October 1988, identified and prepared the tree crops component of
the project, and in March-April 1988 a Bank preappraisal mission identified
and prepared the horticulture component.
1.02.     At the core of the proposed project is diversification within
agriculture through reliance on private investment with public sector
intervention only to the extent that it ensures the provision of public
goods for supporting private sector initiative. Policy reforms are pivotal
to the project. Privatization, full cost recovery of loans to smallholders
made at market rates of interest, and competitive pricing and markets are
key areas of policy focus without which Bank assistance woui& be neither
justified nor meaningful. The success of the project would hinge,
therefore, on the existence of a policy environment conducive to market
determined efficiency. Current prospects for renewed -rowth and
development, brought about by the ..-ro policy reforms and Economic
11 DRC estimates are given in the following Bank reports: Agricultural
Sector Review (1985), the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
(1986); and in the Export Diversification Strategy Report (1988) and in the
Draft Working Paper #8 fSources of Agricultural Growth", Medium Term
Agricultural Development Program for Ghana (1989).



-2-
Recovery Programme (ERP), are indicative of this being an opportune time
for initiating market-led growth in the subsector. The proposed project is
designed to: (i) expand high-yielding smallholder oil palm cultivation and
processing as an efficient import substitute for palm oil; (ii) enhance
smallholder coffee and rubber production through smallholder new planting.
rehabilitation, and improved processing and research; and (iii) assist in
the creation of an enabling environment for horticulture crops through
improved access to technology and marketing infrastructure.
II. ECONOMIC SETTING
2.01      A detailed review of the performance of the economy is dealt
with in two recent economic reports which have been issued on the Ghanaian
economy: one is entitled: Ghana: Policies and Issues of Structural
Adiustmnent Report No. 7515-GH), January 23, 1989, and the other is the
Policy Framework Paper (Paport No. SecM89-1209), September 1989. The key
economic indicators are in Annex 2.01 of this report.
2.02      Ghana is well endowed with natural and human resources.
Agriculture accounts for about half of GDP and provides income for about 70
percent of the population. Ghana is the world's third largest producer of
cocoa, which accounts for about two-thirds of the country's export
earnings. The country possesses valuable mineral deposits, particularly
gold. Services which account for over a third of GDP are dominated by
retail and wholesale trade. Ghana's economic performance in the 1970s was
generally poor: between 1970 and 1982. per capita income declined by 30
percent, import volumes declined by a third, real export earnings halved,
domestic savings aad investment fell in real terms, and inflation averaged
about 44 percent per year.
2.03      The economic decline and stagnation began to be reversed with
government's adoption of the ERP in 1983. Real GDP has grown at an annual
average rate of 5.9 percent between 1983 and 1987, and at an estimated rate
of 6.2 percent in 1988. More dramatic, however, has been the devaluation
of the currency from Cedis 36 to the US dollar in 1984 to Cedis 250 in
1988; compression of the difference between the ratio of the parallel
market to the official exchange rate from 22.2 percent in 1983 to an
estimated 1.4 percent in 1988; a reduction in the budget deficit as a
proportion of GDP from a deficit of 4.6 percent in 1982 to a small positive
surplus of 0.1 percent in 1986; an impressive decline in the balance of
payments arrears from US$440 million in 1983 to an estimated US$69 million
in 1988; and a decrease in inflation from 123 percent in 1983 to about 30
percent in 1988.
2.04       The challenge for the government now is to harness all means to
consolidate and sustain the recovery so far achieved, and to deepen the
reform and adjustment process in a manner that leads to sustainable growth
with diversification, growth that would enable the economy to better
withstand exogenous shocks in future and reduce its undue dependence on
concessionary flows. Sustained growth and development with reduced



- 3 -
vulnerability through significantly lesser reliance on cocoa and gold, and
increased efficiency and creditworthiness, are now key government
objectives. Any strategy of growth with diversification would necessarily
have to emphasize and ensure an optimum allocation of resources. Such
efficiency-based development would require, first, that comparative
advantage be the main determinant of priorities for diversification, and
second, that private entrepreneurship and investment be the driving force
behind growth with diversification. Needless to say, development and
diversification must be carried out within an overall framework of economic
liberalization.
2.05      Over the period 1988-91, the government's economic adjustment
programme aims at a real GDP growth of 5 percent per annum, reduction in
inflation from 34 percent in 1987 on an eid-of-period basis to 5 percent by
1991, and a balance of payments surplus avdraging US$117.5 million per
year. In the sub period 1989-90, that is, during the second phase of the
government's structural adjustment programme, the main targets are an
average real GDP growth of 5 percent per year, and increases in the ratio
of investment to GDP of 16 percent, and that of savings to GDP 8.5 percent.
With a view to deepening the policy reform and structural adjustmenit
effort, a significant role is envisaged for the private sector both through
the divestiture of state owned enterprises and through new investment by it
in production, processing and marketing across all sectors of the economy.
Continued emphasis is to be placed on liberalization and unification of the
exchange rate, rationalization of the trade, tariff, and tax structures,
tighter control over public expenditure, acceleration of state enterprise
reform, improved public sector management, and positive real interest rates
that ;-ould bring about investment and mobilize domestic savings. The
success of government's development efforts rests on its ability to sustain
the macro reforms, keep inflation under control, and build and maintain a
political and investment climate that restores confidence in the private
sector to increase savings and investment.
III. THE AGRIC.ULTURAL SECTOR AND DIVERSIFICATION STRATEGY
3.01      Role and Structure of the Agricultural Sector.  The importance
of the agriculture sector in Ghana is evident in its almost 55 percent
share of value added, and 57 percent of labour force, 74 percent of export
earnings, and 60 percent of trade taxes. According to the 1984 Population
Census, of a total population of 12.2 million, almost 70 percent lived in
rural areas. Over the last 15 years or so, population growth accelerated
from a rate of 2.1 percent in 1973 to an average annual rate of 2.6 percent
between 1975 and 1987, and is currently estimated to be expanding at 3.2
percent per annum. Meanwhile, estimates show that the urban population as
a proportion of the total has risen from 26 percent in 1965 to 32 percent
in 1986. The agricultural sector clearly has to shoulder the burden
imposed by continued acceleration of population growth and slow down the
rapid urban drift. Expected of it is the provision of food, wage goods,
and income and employment opportunities, and a sustained contribution to
foreign exchange earnings and government revenue.



- 4-
3.02      Government Objectives and Diversification Strategy.  The
Government of Ghana has outlined the following objectives in its long-term
agricultural development strategy: (i) self sufficiency in food and raw
materials; (ii) higher employment and incomes in rural areas; (iii) food
security; (iv) regional balanced growth; and (v) greater contribution of
Ghana's agricultural sector to value added, foreign exchange earnings and
government revenue. These objectives are to be attained by further
increases in cocoa production on the one hand, and diversification into
areas with comparative advantage on the other. Diversification is a long
term process and is, indeed, an integral part of the development process
itself, and for this reason can only be accomplished gradually and in
stages. There is the further and equally valid constraint imposed by the
scarcity of resources at any given point in time. Diversification through
the promotion of tree and horticulture crops under this project has been
governed by the relatively greater strength of the DRCs for tree crops and
the good potential for the export of horticultural crops. 2/ It is also
important to note that given their long gestation period, the development
of tree crops based on their strong comparative advantage is clearly a long
term strategy with only the rudiments ot the positive incentive framework
being taken care of in the short to medium term. Cotton with its strong
comparative advantage and substantial scope for import substitution would
be promoted under a project with Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) assistance. Export fisheries, already exhibiting strong growth,
together with inland fisheries and livestock are other areas which would
receive greater attention under the Medium Term Agricultural Development
Programme (MTADP).
3.03      Medium Term Agricultural Strategy.  A Medium Term Agricultural
Development Programme is at present jointly being prepared by the Bank and
the government. The basic MTADP strategy is to address the issue of low
agricultural productivity through technical and institutional improvements,
and to specify sources of growth through the development of subsector
strategies and sectorai linkages. Also addressed will be environmental and
social factors, policy reform, and the building and strengthening of
planning and implementation capacity. The overall emphasis in the medium
term will be on raising productivity through greater reliance on the
private sector. At the subsector levels, the medium term strategy is as
follows: in tree crops, the strategy is to restore development of the
subsector through private sector initiative encouraged by improved
incentives and the creation of a competitive environment; in the crops
subsector the strategy is to achieve higher productivity through proven
technology that would also ensure sustainable use of resources, and support
to smallholders through strengthened extension, processing and marketing
facilities; in irrigation, the focus would be on cost effective small-
2/ The Bank's agricultural Sector Review (1985) calculated DRCs of 0.14 for
oil palm (advanced outgrowers), 0.18 for rehabilitated rubber, and 0.11 for
smallholder robusta coffee; the DRCs for cocoa were 0.19 for replanted and
0.22 for rehabilitated, respectively; and 0.62 for cotton. A revised DRC
analysis in connection with the MTADP was strongest for tree crops and
cotton all with DRCs of below 0.3; and for pineapples at 0.43.



scale schemes with a view to optimizing water resources, implementation and
management of the schemes by the farmers' themselves, and cost recovery; in
livestock, the priority would be improved animal health through better
nutrition, and accessible water supplies; and in fisheries, the development
of inland fisheries and the rehabilitation of marine fishing to support
tuna development would be the area of focus. An indispensable part of the
overall strategy and one that would be vital to the success of the
subsectoral strategies would be on the one hand, the strengthening of
agricultural support services to provide seed and fertilizer, research and
extension services, and marketing, storage and agro-processing iacilities,
and on the other, the improvement and development of feeder and access
roads.
3.04      Performance.  Ghana's agriculture is predominantly smallholder,
traditional and rainfed. Yields are generally low and shifting cultivation
common. Cocoa is the main crop and export commodity contributing to more
than 60 percent of export earnings, 9 percent of GDP, and 25 percent of
government revenue in 1987. It is expected to continue its significant
contribution to the economy through the medium term, as the cocoa subsector
embarks on major rehabilitation estimated to cost US$128 million with
assistance from the IDA in the amount of US$40 million. The main cereal
staples are maize, rice, millet and sorghum. Maize production in 1988 was
a little above 500,000 metric tons, which is equivalent to the production
levels that prevailed in the late 60s and early 70s. Rice production in
1988 increased 45 percent over the 1984 levels to 110,000 tons although the
five-year 1983-88 average is about 80,000 tons, sorghum production hae
stagnated at about 140,000 tons while millet has increased 7 percent to
190,000 tons in 1988. The starchy staples have had a poor performance:
cassava production reached a ten-year peak in 1984 at 4.1 million tons, but
has continually declined to about 3.0 million tons in 1988 due to disease
problems and a diversification away from cassava. Yam production has had a
mixed performance, although it has recorded modest increases since 1985,
increasing by 11 percent to 1.0 million tons in 1987, and about 1.1 million
tons in 1988. Cocoa production rose steadily from an all-time low of
159,000 tons in 1983 to 228,000 tons in 1986/87, and then declined to
183,000 tons in 1987/88 due to drought, but is up again at 306,000 tons
from the 1988189 season. The improved incentive framework, comprising
better producer prices, more reliable agricultural input supplies, and
improvements in the road and transport infrastructure, has been the main
stimulus to the increased supply response achieved so far. However,
productivity remains low. Maize yields are about 300 kg/ha for small-
scale traditional agriculture where no fertilizer and unimproved seed are
used in contrast to farmers who have achieved at least a fourfold increase
when using the fertilizer-improved seed technology. For sorghum the yields
are 260 kg/ha under traditional techniques and about 1,500 kg/ha using the
fertilizer-improved seed technology. Low agricultural productivity
persists mainly because of inadequate supplies and the limited use of
fertilizer and improved seed; insufficient storage; inefficient transport
system; and inadequate extension support.
3.05      Fishing and livestock contribute about 12 percent of
agricultural GDP and are an important source of protein in the average diet
of the majority of the population. Fish production in 1987 was about



- 6 -
303,000 tons, equivalent to a per capita supply of 23 kg. Possibilities
exist for a sustainable expansion of tuna production from the current catch
of 35,000 tons to 60,000 tons a year. There is also potential in culture
fisheries, especially in aquaculture. Current fish production is estimated
at 40,000 tons per year. The main constraint is inadequate fisheries
extension. Other constraints include a lack of spare parts for servicing
vessels and a lack of cold storage facilities. Fish smoking is the
predominant form of traditional preservation but current technology relies
heavily on firewood. Efforts are under way to improve fuel wood oven
efficiency. The distribution system is constrained by the poor road
network and lack of appropriate packaging both of which lead to significant
spoilage.
3.06      The main livestock in the country are cattle and poultry, which
together account for about two thirds of the total meat production. Sheep,
goats and pigs account for the balance. The cattle population in 1988 was
estimated at about 1.3 million and growing at about 4.3 percent per year.
The off-take is estimated to vary between 7.5 percent and 11 percent which
would be equivalent to a maximum production of about 16,000 tons cold
dressed weight. Poultry meat production was estimated at about 15,000 tons
in 1988, while sheep, goats and pigs accounted for an additional 14,000
tons. The combined total meat production of 45,000 tons was only about 23
percent of the estimated national demand of 195,000 tons. Further
increases in meat production can be obtained in the short run through
cattle fattening programs. Poultry meat production is constrained by the
scarcity of day old chicks because of low capacity utilization of local
hatcheries and by irregular supplies of feed. In all, more cattle
fattening programs, increased supply of poultry feed and availability of
working capital for hatcheries, should, in the short-run, help to increase
meat supply.  In the long run, breeding considerations as well as extension
services will be important ingredients in a livestock development strategy.
3.07      The level of crop husbandry on cocoa and coffee farms is very
poor, achieving only about half of the per unit potential productivity: 250
kg/ha as compared to 500 kg/ha for cocoa and coffee. The potential for
increasing rubber and coconut (copra) production is also high: presently
400 kg dry rubber as compared to 1,000 kg, and for copra 1,000 kg as
compared to 3,000 kg. Oil palm smallholders, except for nucleus estate
outgrowers, usually obtain less than 5 tons/ha which is half of potential
yield with much of the planting being on sub-optimal lands in terms of
slope and moisture availability. Cotton yields are bout 500 kg per hectare
on smallholder farms while the yield is 2,000 kg/ha on estates. The main
constraints impeding the realization of this potential are inappropriate
producer prices, the farmers' inability to provide labor for farm
maintenance operations, use of unimproved seed materials, insufficient
fertilizer, and limited access to credit. Paragraphs 3.10-3.20 provide an
overview of the Tree Crops Subsector in respect of its constraints and
potential.
3.08      A rapidly growing category of exports is 'non-traditional",
exports: pineapples, yam, copra, fish and marine products. In 1988 the
agricultural value of non-traditional exports was about US$27 million, up
50 percent over 1987. Pineapple exports have been expanding rapidly from



about 1,800 tons in 1985, to 2,650 tons in 1986, 4,125 tons in 1987 and
5,000 tons in 1988. The potential exists for these exports in natural and
processed form. The main constraints are inadequate domestic facilities
for primary storage, port handling facilities; unsuitable transport
vehicles and poor extension. Paragraphs 3.21-3.29 discuss further the
constraints and potential of horticultural exports as exemplified by
pineapples.
3.09      IDA Assistance to the Sector.  The main objectives of IDA
support to the agricultural sector is to help GOG develop an overall medium
and long-term strategy including sectoral programs that are consistent with
and reinforce the macro-economic environment. The Oil Palm II Project
promotes oil palm outgrower development consistent with comparative
advantage and import substitution objectives. The Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project (CRP) seeks to improve the operational efficiency of Ghana Cocoa
Board (COCOBOD), improve cocoa extension and research, and privatize cocoa
input supplies; the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Projects (ASRP)
implements a program to strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA)
planning and monitoring activities; improve the reliability of farm input
supplies and privatize their distribution;introduce cost recovery systems
in irrigation and veterinary services; and initiate revival in research and
extension. The Rural Finance Project improves rural financial
intermediation through restructuring of rural banks, strengthening credit
unions and improves rural credit appraisal capacity.
The Tree Crops Subsector
3.10      Parastatals play an important role in Ghana's non-cocoa tree
crop production: 38 perccnt in palm oil, more than 50 percent in rubber,
and about 30 percent in coffee. While cocoa production is essentially
smallholder in nature, COCOBOD has a legal monopoly in internal marketing
and export of cocoa and coffee. In the case of palm oil and rubber, even
though the main parastatals are entrusted to contracted private management,
they are able to exercise considerable government influence in the
subsector. While COCOBOD has been regarded as a large and inefficient
parastatal Bank's intervention through Structural Adjustment Credits I and
II and the CRP has seen improved cocoa producer prices and reduced
operating costs through staff reductions, reduction of input subsidies to
farmers and more efficient transport and marketing arrangements. Its cocoa
extension services are being strengthened under the CRP but coffee does not
receive the same amount of attention. In rubber smallholder extension
services are non-existent. Ghana Rubber Estates Limited was previously
poorly managed and allowed to run down, is now being rehabilitated with
CCCE assistance and expatriate management. In oil palm smallholder
extension services are essentially those provided to outgrowers by nucleus
estate parastatals, namely, Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPDC)
and Twifo Oil Palm Plantations (TOPP), both of which are under private
contracted management with IDA and EEC assistance. Benso Oil Palm
Plantation (BOPP), which is 40 percent government-owned is managed
privately. National Oil Palms Limited (NOPL), which is a wholly



- 8 -
government-owned plantation unit 3/. Management of these plantations with
the exception of NOPL has been strengthened with expatriate input.
3.11      Coffee research in COCOBOD by the Cocoa Research Institute of
Ghana (CRIG) faces seriotts funding constraints and is in dire need of
support to improve quality of planting material and supporting agronomic
research to improve yields. Oil palm research, undertaken at the Oil Palm
Research Institute (OPRI), suffers from poor management and poor GOG
funding which is being addressed under the Oil Palm II project which,
unfortunately, has suffered implementation delays. There is no research
being undertaken for rubber, but this is not an obstacle in the short-term
as there is good access to technology in neighboring countries.
3.12      The primary factors constraining any sizeable private investment
in tree crop production, processing and marketing are: (i) strong
government influence in price setting; (ii) shortage of indigenous
professional technical and management capacity; (iii) poor delivery system
for farm inputs; (iv) absence of quality research and extension and low
levels of funding for their development; (v) difficulty in obtaining term
credit as well as its cost; (vi) poor storage, marketing and transport
infrastructure with a badly deteriorated network of feeder and access
roads; and (vii) parastatal labor wage rates unrelated to farm level
productivity; see Annex 3.01 for a brief description of the labor supply
situation in the forest zone. The absence of viable formal rural sector
credit facilities for smallholders not attached to nucleus estates is a
major constraint for tree crops with their long gestation periods and
virtually year round labor requirements. Poor infrastructure reduces
marketing options and restricts competition. Favorable comparative
advantage of agricultural commodities can be considerably reduced to the
extent that transport costs are excessive. Costs of permanently employed
estate labor can be high with fringe benefits amounting to twice the basic
wage. Besides, the cost of laying-off workers is prohibitive even for the
large estates.
3.13      The above obstacles notwithstanding, there are factors that
favour the inclusion of tree crop development in an agricultural
diversification strategy for Ghana. Apart from the favourable DRCs that
depict comparative advantage for oil palm, rubber, coffee and coconut,
these include the ready availability of viable technical packages, except
coconut which is adversely affected by the Cape St. Paul Wilt Disease
(CSPWD) disease, favorable climatic and soil conditions, and past
experience of Ghanaian farmers with these crops. In fact, with the
progressive realignment of the exchange rate and its positive impact on
producer prices, a renewed interest in tree crop exploitation has already
been observed. This is more true for rubber and coffee, crops that have
been the most seriously neglected. While rehabilitation of these crops, and
expansion in oil palm, is a positive sign, it is essential, nevertheless,
3/GOTDC has a nucleus estate of 3,850 ha and 4,250 ha of smallholders/
outgrowers. TOPP has a nucleus estate of 4,2800 ha and 1,000 ha of
smallholders. The BOPP plantation covers 4,000 ha, while the NOPL area is
3,700 ha.



- 9 -
to preserve the favourable comparative advantage of these crops in future.
Expansion into marginal areas, such as has already occurred, especially in
oil palm, should, therefore, be deliberately dissuaded. Accordingly, the
extension services of MOA and COCOBOD have an important role to play in
discouraging expansion into suboptimal areas.
3.14      Physical Regime and Climatic Factors.  The geographical area
most suitable to the cultivation of tree crops in Ghana is its High Forest
Zone consisting of the rain forest, transition zone, moist semi-deciduous
forest and the coastal belt. Each tree crop, however, is specific in its
requirements of soil and climatic conditions that would make for maximum
yields. Rainfall in the project area ranges from 1300 mm in the northern
and south eastern part to over 2000 mm in the south west, is bimodal with
peaks in June and October, with a brief dry spell in August, usually of
little consequence. and a longer dry period from December to February which
leads to moisture stress, especially important for almost all oil palm
which is particularly sensitive to periods of moisture deficiency.   While
some of the 100.000 ha of oil palm is well established in 'optimal' and
'favourable' areas, the traditional and wider oil palm belt in Ghana is
located in the less favourable climatic areas. This may partly be
explained by the spread of oil palm to rarginal areas in response to
artificially high producer prices as a result of internal shortages and
cost-plus pricing by parastatals. Most of the 11,000 ha of rubber is
concentrated primarily in the evergreen rain forest zone in the extreme
southwest part of the country, where the mean annual rainfall is on average
2,000 mm; yet, it may also do well at lower levels of rainfall of 1600-
1700 mm, and where the incidence of black stripe fungal disease is less.
The area along the coastal belt, where mean annual rainfall ranges between
900 mm and 2,000 mm is most suited to coconut cultivation.  This crop has
considerable potential in widely dispersed inland areas in the Western,
Eastern and Central Regions as well, provided CSPWD can be surmounted. IDA
has assisted research in coconut, since 1983, through the Volta Region
Agricultural Development Project (VORADEP), the ASRP, the Ghana Oil Palm
Phase II Project and is expected to continue to do so under the upcoming
Agricultural Research Project. Finally, robusta coffee, considered the
most adaptable of the four tree crops mentioned, may successfully be grown
in the high forest zone where annual rainfall ranges between 1300 mm and
2000 mm. At present, the 6,000 ha under coffee are almost wholly confined
to areas that are marginal both to cocoa and oil palm as a result of
unremunerative prices.
3.15      A detailed discussion of each of the three non-cocoa tree crops
individually with the exception of coconut, in terms of productivity and
potential, and constraints to development is given in Annex 3.02. Coconut
development in Ghana is, at present and will in the medium term be,
constrained by CSPWD. The efficient revival and expansion of the tree
crops subsector is dependent on four primary factors: continuation of the
macro level reforms aimed at greater liberalization; price determination by
market forces; the strengthening of institutions engaged in credit,
research and extension; and expansion and improvement of the physical
infrastructure.



- 10 -
3.16      Even though GOG remains committed to its structural adjustment
programme, the pace at which complete liberalization is achieved will
depend on the rate at which the role of the public sector in productive
activity is progressively reduced and protection, particularly to
inefficient private enterprises. is revamped and/or replaced by new market
determined operations. In the .ransitional period prior to full
liberalization, this would mean, in effect, a certain amount of continued
dependence on the public sector for input supply and marketing and
processing services for the tree crops subsector. The government's
programme to privatize the import and distribution of fertilizer under the
ASRP would address the inefficiencies in the fertilizer supply and
distribution system but how soon this will come about will be determined by
the swiftness of response by the private sector, and the ability of the
financial system to accommodate the demand for trader credit. The issue of
the continued involvement of COCOBOD in input distribution and coffee
hulling would be addressed under the Agricultural Diversification Project
presently being proposed. As regards price liberalization, the project
would include proposals for moving toward market determined prices for oil
palm products, coffee and rubber.
3.17      Institutional strengthening is being addressed through several
Bank financed projects. That of institutions engaged in finance is being
undertaken under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit and the Rural
Finance Project. The complete and positive impact of these initiatives
will inevitably take time and is unlikely, in the short run, to provide the
term financing which is considered critical and indispensable to the
revival and expansion of long gestation tree crops. The project would,
therefore, continue with the existing interim solution of nucleus estate
financed outgrowers for oil palm and introduce a rubber outgrower project
on the same basis. For institutions engaged in research and extension, two
projects at the national level, both scheduled for FY92, are under
preparation. These would review the current inadequacies and would aim at
redressing the problems and enhancing their efficiency. In the meantime,
however, there is urgent need to support coffee research to obtain improved
planting material, and to introduce better farm management through
effective extension. It is envisaged that this challenge would be
undertaken by the project. For oil palm and rubber, the nucleus estate
approach with its specialized and intensively geared extension approach
would be adopted for overcoming the weakness in MOA's existing extension
services; for coffee, COCOBOD's coffee extension service would be
strengthened under the project mainly through the provision of training.
3.18      To improve and expand infrastructure, the forthcoming Feeder
Roads Project in FY92 would tackle the problem of rural roads on a national
scale, while the project would make interventions in specific locations
related to outgrower development. The programmed rehabilitation of roads
under the CRP would in large measure meet the needs of coffee development
and improve access to existing rubber and oil palm smallholdings.
3.19      In spite of the above interventions that would facilitate the
revival and expansion of non-cocoa tree crops, there remain vital factors
that could well limit their development. In the case of oil palm, only high
yielding outgrower operations with extension and processing support from



- 11 -
nucleus estates can compete effectively with unsubsidized imports. The
scope for expansion of outgrower schemes is limited by the management and
processing capacity of existing nucleus estates located in the climatically
more favorable areas. In addition, the estimated medium to long term
domestic palm oil supply deficit does not appear excessive. Imports to
cover projected deficits of 11,000 tons and 18,000 tons in 1995 and 2000
respectively, would cost US$6 million and US$9 million in 1990 US dollars.
Given the very likely prospects of aggressive and competitive export
pricing from rapid expansion of palm oil production by the more efficient
producers in East Asia and expanded cultivation of soybeans and rapeseed in
North America and Europe, it would be prudent for Ghana not to target for
complete import substitution. In the case of coffee, with the growing
international popularity of arabica coffee compared to robusta, and not
cultivable under Ghanaian conditions, demand may not be confined only to
robusta and imported arabica may gain in importance.
3.20      In view of these considerations it is difficult to recommend
rapid and large scale development in oil palm and coffee in the short to
medium term. As an export, it is only rubber that offers scope for large
scale development. However, this can only take place with first, a pricing
system that proves to be liberal over time and one that is also
renumerative, and second, the development of a viable system for term
credit to support farmers over the long gestation period, and one which
would clearly be outside the time frame of this project. The proposed
Agricultural Diversification Project, thus, envisages only moderate
expansion of the tree crops subsector. Its emphasis, rather, is on the
creation of an incentive framework that is relatively and progressively
free of economic distortions.
Horticulture Crops
3.21      Private initiative and entrepreneurship in Ghana's export
agriculture is, perhaps, best exemplified, by the pineapple subsector.
Pineapple exports have risen at an average annual rate of 39 percent since
1985. In 1988, export value almost touched US$3.0 million with -<olume
slightly falling short of 5,000 tons. The development of Ghana's pineapple
exports has, however, outstripped its institutional and physical
infrastructure capacity to handle the rapid expansion that has taken place.
Complaints of poor product quality, inadequate freight space, price under-
cutting and poor timing of harvests are not uncommon. This capacity
constraint is equally valid for all horticulture produce and non-
traditional exports; 4/ the focus on pineapple is due to its being a
primary horticulture export, accounting for almost 85 percent of all such
exports since 1986. Thus, while the discussion on productivity and
potential is confined to pineapple, the constraints highlight the urgent
4/ The Ghana Export Promotion Council classifies the following as non-
traditional products: lobsters, avocado pears, okra, green beans,
aubergines, yam, pineapples, mangoes, dried and split ginger, dried
chilies, copra, desiccated coconut, and cassava chips. See GEPC's n3-Year
Non-Traditional Export Development Plan (1988-1990),  September 1987.



- 12 -
need for an improved export-driven enabling environment for all
horticulture crops taking the case of pineapple only as generic.
3.22      Strong Comparative Advantage. The economic benefit to Ghana from
the expansion of pineapple cultivation is illustrated by a favourable DRC,
which could improve significantly as marketing becomes more efficient and
less costly. Ghana's air freighted fresh pineapple enjoys considerable
demand in the highly segmented European market on the basis of its flavour,
aroma and appearance. This premium market is, however, highly competitive;
often Ghanaian pineapples are sold at a discount to suppliers frc.m other
countries merely to gain market entry, or to retain market share frequently
in competition with other Ghanaian exporters. Cote d'Ivoire, Europe's
principal supplier of pineapples, along with other exporters also competes
in this premium market, but as much as 90 percent of its exports are
directed to the non-premium market supplied by sea-freight. In 1989, the
Cote d'Ivoire projects its export volume at 200,000 tons of pineapple in
comparison to Ghana's estimated 7,000 tons.
3.23      Location, Ownership, Productivity and Potential. Pineapple
cultivation is concentrated in the greater Accra Region around Nsawam and
Winneba, and is close to both Kotoka Airport and Tema harbour. Land, is
available in these areas on long term leases ranging between 10 and 50
years. There is no precise data on the total area under pineapples in
Ghana, but the GEPC statistics on farms providing fresh pineapple exports
show that in 1988 about 3,000 hectares were under cultivation on these
farms. However, since pineapple has been traditionally cultivated for the
domestic market, the total area under cultivation could well be several
fold that for the 'export' farms which are mostly of large and medium size,
with the traditional farms being mostly small. Seventy-five percent of the
area under cultivation in the 'export' farms is in the hands of the four
main producers, with the largest accounting for half of this area. At the
smallholder level, there is only one producer cooperative and it is barely
active. In contrast, in Cote d'Ivoire, smallholders are well organized into
pineapple and other horticulture cooperatives essentially for managing
export, and assisting with credit, inputs, and transportation of the
produce when required. The system appears to be effective in motivating and
organizing smallholders to produce for export.
3.24      Yields average 50 tons per hectare on the better organized
larger plantations but these could improve by at least 20 percent with a
strong technical base underlying cultivation; this is still lower than the
yields on plantations in Cote d'Ivoire where 85 tons per hectare are
common. No information on smallholder yields is available. In this case,
too, with better cultivation practices, the large yield differential with
large producers which is said to exist at present could be narrowed to
about 20 percent. The yields can be significantly increased through use of
fertilizer and chemicals, easier access to inputs, and better access to
extension advice. The period between planting and harvest is 18 months,
which can, with better farm husbandry, be reduced to 13 months. Careful
land preparation is essential to securing potential yields. Accordingly,
the larger producers undertake the relatively more expensive mechanized
land clearing for tree removal and root raking, with services frequently
provided by private contractors. While most other operations are manual,
I



- 13 -
there is a tendency to mechanize chemical spraying among the larger farms,
reflecting efficiency and timeliness considerations. At the smallholder
farm, land is cleared manually using an axe and a chain saw, and,
subsistence farming is combined with pineapple cultivation primarily for
the domestic market. The use of fertilizer and other chemicals by
smallholders is extremely rare.
3.25      Absence of an Enabling Environment. The expansion of efficient
pineapple production for export is thwarted by serious bottlenecks in
support services such as extension and research, and technical know-how for
production, harvesting, and farm management. Equally vital and missing is
the packaging and marketing infrastructure. A shortage of investment and
working capital, lack of market intelligence and an absence of processing
and canning facilities are also major impediments which if not resolved
could either make expansion a tedious task or discourage it altogether.
3.26      At present no extension or research services exist for
horticulture crops including pineapple. Lack of recurrent funding for
research and extension for horticulture crops, especially for the Crop
Research Institute (CRI) and the Crop Services Department (CSD) of the MOA,
the relevant bodies for providing support to export crops is the major draw
back. Input supply services are also weak. Shortages and irregular supply
of inputs including planting material, fertilizers and weedicides are an
obstacle to higher yields. Larger producers obtain fertilizer directly from
Cote d'Ivoire, and in some instances, even get soil samples tested there to
ensure that correct types are used. Other agro-chemicals including
herbicides to induce flowers and colour are available locally from
importers. Planting material is produced by all the large farms for their
own use and increasingly now for possible sale to smaller farmers.
Technical know-how for harvesting and preservation is critical to the
quality of output and is generally lacking in Ghana. Cold storage
facilities are rarely used to preserve quality. Finally, inspection for
export at shipping points is conducted by persons unfamiliar with pineapple
and horticulture produce. Government involvement in quality inspection in
the Cote d'Ivoire is regarded as having contributed to considerable
inefficiency. Inspection is best handled by the producers and exporters
themselves at the farm and/or at the point of shipping.
3.27      Poor marketing and transport infrastructure constitute the main
bottleneck in Ghana's fresh pineapple exports. An absence of facilities at
the airport to handle the export of perishables is a major constraint.
Non-availability of air-freight space is a common complaint emanating from
the disorganized state of the industry with little cooperative effort to
organize charters and reduce overbooking. At Tema, port facilities arc not
fully organized for sea-freighting horticulture exports. There is no
packing shed to provide shelter from the sun and rain to load reefer
containers, although electrical power to existing point connections for
refrigerated containers can be provided without much difficulty. It is
essential that freshly harvested pineapple be delivered to the air or sea
port in minimal time and with as least damage to the fruit as possible.
More attention needs to be given to the development and maintenance of
feeder and access roads in pineapple producing areas. Better roads would



- 14 -
enable containers to be packed at the farms, thereby reducing handling
costs and preventing damage to the fruit.
3.28       There are three critical areas where investment by the private
sector would be profi.able to both the industry and the investors. One
important area is in market intelligence. Till now, the Ghana Export
Promotion Council (GEPC) with its limited resources has provided useful
support. However, while the private sector must ultimately develop and
provide market intelligence that is both useful and timely to the industry.
assistance by thie GEPC to this industry with strong potential, but one
expected to face tough competition will be required initially. A second
area for investment is the packaging industry in which the private sector
appears to be showing some interest ant which needs to be even more
aggressively pursued. Finally, on the processing side, there are in
existence four companies, though none is geared to the canning of pineapple
given tle absence of a domestic market for canned pineapple. As
cultivation of pineapple for export expands the quantity of rejected
pineapple to be sold on the small and limited domestic market would
correspondingly increase. Unless this fruit can be canned, and alternative
markets found for canned pineapple, the growth of production and export is
likely to suffer a setback.
3.29      Urgent attention to the creation of a strong enabling
environment for horticulture production and export is vital. Government's
commitment to the development of the subsector needs immediate follow-up in
three key areas. First, is the need for quick and easy access to credit for
investment for on-farm packing facilities, refrigerated trucks, packaging
plants, and processing and canning facilities. Potential investors could be
directed to banks that would have access to the Bank financed Rural Finance
and SME lines of credit. Second, early decisions on transport
infrastructure, specifically, those pertaining to the proposed construction
of a cargo village at Kotoka Airport and improvement of the feeder road
network in the pineapple growing areas. Third, the development of research
and extension for horticulture crops must be given urgent attention.
Past Lessons
3.30      The Bank has completed the financing of three tree crops
projects in Ghana, two in cocoa and one in oil palm. The first cocoa
project in 1970, Eastern Region Cocoa Project (Credit 205-GH) was also the
Bank's first agricultural project in Ghana, and the second, which followed
in close succession in 1975, was the Ashanti Region Cocoa Project (Loan
1181-GH). Bank's involvement in oil palm started in 1975 with the Oil Palm
Development Project (Credit 531-GH).
3.31      Cocoa: the experience of the two cocoa projects, according to a
project performance audit report (PPAR) and a project completion report, is
viewed as having been negative. The Bank's failure to argue for a more
renumerative market determined producer price and improved incentives as
part of the project design, even though these were recognized as being
essential, was the primary reason for the projects having failed as
measured by extremely low farmer participation. Other reasons were the
very poor cost recovery, lack of feeder roads, and institutional,



- 15 -
organizational and implementation problems. The projects, however, achieved
most of the physical targets, but not through farmer participation which
was the original objective. Furthermore, the rates of return were, at best,
45-60 percent of the SAR estimates; both had substantial cost overruns, and
significantly exceeded the initial lengths of the project periods. The
main lesson to be learned from the two cocoa projects was that regardless
of the extent of subsidies and close supervision, even to the extent of
paying farmers to grow cocoa, or the project doinag it for them as was the
case here, farmers will not grow cocoa or other tree crops involving
greater attention and resources compared to food crops, unless the existing
input-output coefficients are much favourable and compensate the farmer
adequately for his time and effort. Thus, market-based producer prices and
interim arrangements for higher administered producer prices are a primary
concern of this project.
3.32      Oil Palm: in contrast to cocoa, Bank's experience with oil palm
has been relatively more encouraging. The PPAR views the Oil Palm
Development Project to be a success in spite of cost and time overruns,
having achieved most of its planting targets as originally envisaged. The
ERR at completion was estimated at 12 percent compared to 16 percent at
appraisal. The main problems encountered during the project related to
land compensation and resistance by farmers who had beeL evicted, chronic
absenteeism of labour, despite it being surplus in the project area
probably related to long distances from villages and subsistence farms to
work place, lack of a workable system for oil palm fruit collection, and
shortage of recurrent funding. There are three main lessons to be drawn
from the project. First, the importance of resolving land acquisition,
compensation and resettlement issues through the preparation of a land
compensation plan prior to appraisal; second, outgrowers should be within a
workable radius of the estate to facilitate supervision of cultivation and
production and the organization of fruit collection; third, the importance
of designing sound training components for counterparts within a time
schedule frequently tight for completing projects in general. These
lessons have been incorporated into the Oil Palm Development Project II and
are taken into account in the design of the oil palm and rubber outgrower
components of this project. The difficulty of cost recovery, upheld by the
experience of other Bank assisted smallholder oil palm projects, is dealt
with through centralized milling of oil palm fruit, supported by an
efficient fruit collection system, competitive pricing in a relatively
monopsonistic situation, and efficient and continued eytension and input
supply services.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.33      Two key overall objectives of Government's policy are firstly,
to reduce the dependence of the economy on cocoa and gold and, second,
improved efficiency of resource use through exploitation of Ghana's
comparative advantage. The Bank fully supports these objectives being
pursued by Government and to whic' the Government appears to be strongly
committed. These objectives are to be achieved through pursuing a strategy
of agricultural diversification based on comparative advantage. This
strategy is critical, first, for lesser dependence on the cocoa for foreign
exchange, revenue, and employmenv., second, to proceed with the process of



- 16 -
economic development of which diversification is an important stage, and,
third, to make optimal use of the country's resources, domestJc and
foreign. The project initiative would support this straterr.
3.34      Given good working relations with Government and the effective
policy dialogue that has yielded favourable results at the macro level, the
Bank and Government can continue to build on the ongoing success of this
dialogue and extend it to the sectoral and micro levels. Both the Bank and
Government are striving for a common set of objectives at the macro and
sector levels namely, growth and development with equity and efficiency.
The Bank is well placed to assist countries with policy reforms through
macro and sector interventions, to promote leadership by the private sector
in overall development, to bring about technology transfer, and to help
with institutional strengthening and infrastructure development. These
factors taken together provide a strong rationale for Bank investment in
the proposed project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The major objective of the project would be to revitalize and
expand the cultivation of non-cocoa tree crops and horticultural crops,
which can be efficiently and competitively cultivat.d in Ghana for export
and import substitution, within the framework of an agricultural
diversification stratety aimed at diluting the importance of cocoa in the
agricultural sector and, therefore, the economy. The project would expand
the area of high-yielding private small-scale oil palm farms and increase
the number of improved technology artisanal small-scale privately owned
mills. In coffee the goal would be to rehabilitate existing private
smallholdings and replace, to only a limited extent, small private coffee
farms destreyed during the bush fires of 1983 in order .o sustain exports
at pre-1980 levels through higher yields which would provide a buffer
against future low export prices. High-yielding small-scale outgrower
farming of rubber would be introduced to initiate a longer term response in
improved private smallholder cultivation largely aimed at export. In
horticulture the project targets at increased production and exports by
improving technical support and marketing and export facilities for
pineapples, in particular, but generically relevant to most horticultural
exports.
B. Project Description
4.02      The project, which would be implemented over seven years, would
reinforce oil palm cultivation by outgrowers through intensive extension
and assured input supply and promote the development of ITSPM; revitalize
coffee cultivation through improved pricing, liberalized markets and
improved extension and research; initiate rubber cultivation by outgrowers



- 17 -
through intenslve extension and assured input supply; and promote the
expansion of private export pineapple-farming through improving the
technical base of production and suitable export and marketing
infrastructure. Specific components to be financed under the project
include the following:
(a) Oil Palm Development
(i)     provision of technical and management assistance for
the planting of 3,500 ha of high-yielding oil palms by
outgrowers through GOPDC, resurfacing 90 km and
constructing 30 km of feeder roads to facilitate
evacuation of agricultural production of existing and
prospective oil palm outgrowers;
(ii)     management and technical assistance for the
establishment of about 60 ITSPMs by individuals and
village cooperatives, and resurfacing of about 120 km
of feeder roads;
(b) Coffee Development
(i)     provision of improved planting material and extension
advice for the rehabilitation of 1500 ha and
replanting or new planting of 3000 ha of small private
coffee farms through COCOBOD; and
iii)     equipment, materials and technical assistance for
coffee research by CRIG in areas of plant breeding,
agronomy, pest and diseases and processing.
(c) Rubber Development
(i)     design and implementation of an outgrower scheme for
1200 ha of rubber through GREL; and
(ii)     design and construction of a smallscale model
artisanal smoked sheet rubber processing unit for
training private processors to improve the quality of
production.
(d) Horticultural Development
(i)     technical assistance for the development of technical
packages for the production of export pineapples and
other horticultural exports;
(ii)     technical assistance for market penetration and
development for horticultural exports;
(iii)     design and organizational support for pilot projects
for specialized horticultural production villages



including smallholder pilot projects for export of
pineapplest and
(iv)     resurfacing o  100 km of feeder roads la the pineapple
production areas to facilitate smooth evacuation of
pineapple and other agricultural produce.
(e) Support Activities
(i)     Studies on possible loan sales by GOPDC; labor supply
in the forest zone and potential for canning pineapple
products;
(ii)     vehicles, equipment and technical support to
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB);
(iii)     project coordination through a Project Coordination
Lait (PC`2); and
(iv)     training of local staff to facilitate the
implementation of the development and research
activities of the project.
4.03      Specific policy reforms under the project would include the
following:
(a)  GOPDC would purchase outgrower and other non-estate oil palm
fruits at market prices related to the prices of palm oil and
kernels and the demand and supply of oil palm fruits;
(b)  COCOBOD would pay a minimum coffee bean producer price
equivalent to 65 percent of the F.O.B. price;
(c)  COCOBOD would implement a program to sell planting materials at
full cost by 1995;
(d)  COCOBOD would not involve itself in input distribution in
villages/towns where MOA registered private dealers already
operate;
(e)  GREL would purchase smallholder and outgrower rubber at market
determined prices, and would sell its processed rubber in the
domestic and international mark'ets also at market determined
prices.
C.   Detailed Features
1. Oil Palm Development
4.04      GOPDC Phase 3 Outgrower Scheme.  GOPDC which has up to now
successfully organized the development of 2200 ha of oil palms by private
outgrowers under its Phase 2 program, which is being assisted by the Bank
as was its Phase 1. would have by 1992 extended this program by another



- 19 -
1500 ha. Under this project it will continue with an annual program to
assist outgrowers to plant 1000 ha per year for 3 years starting 1993 and
500 ha in 1996. Landowners within a reasonable radius of the existing
GOPDC Nucleus Estate and palm oil mill would be assisted to establish small
oil palm holdings of 1 to 5 ha on flat or gently sloping land where risk of
erosion is minimal. GOPDC would supply technical advice; major inputs such
as seedlings, fertilizer, and chemicals; and advance funds for 50Z of labor
costs for land clearing, planting and maintenance operations over a five-
year period until the end of the first year of harvesting. The outgrower
would manage the development and maintenance of his holding and provide
labor and traditional agricultural tools for all operations. Outgrower oil
palm production would be processed at the GOPDC mill. GOPDC would recover
costs through charges or deductions from payments for outgrower produce
made by the mill. Outgrowers would continue to receive extension advice
and input supplies from GOPDC even after their holdings are in harvest in
order to facilitate continued adoption of improved technology and practices
which would provide for good yields and therefore better utilization of
GOPDC oil palm processing capacity. 90 km of feeder roads would be
resurfaced and 30 km constructed within a 30-km radius of the GOPDC Nucleus
Estate to facilitate the evacuation of agricultural produce of existing and
project outgrowers. GOPDC would review its oil palm fruit purchase price
policy to be consistent with demand and supply in its sourcing area and
improve its marketing arrangements to cope with expected increased future
competition. The management of GOPDC would continue to be contracted to an
established and successful tree crop estates management agency but with
reduced expatriate input.
4.05      Intermediate Technology Small-scale Palm Oil Mills.  To assist
in reducing the problem of accessibility, because of poor infrastructure,
and the poor availability of efficient oil palm processing facilities in
general and in the Western Region in particular, the project will assist
cooperatives and individuals to construct an estimated 60 ITSPMs based on a
basic design that has been proven and is already being adopted in several
mills. The attractive features of these mills are a low investment cost,
improved extraction and largely locally manufactured equipment. Technical
assistance by an NGO would be provided for this purpose. Also, about
120 km of feeder roads would be resurfaced in the areas where the ITSPMs
would be established. 5/.
2. Coffee Development
4.06      Smallholder Coffee Rehabilitation and Planting.  COCOBOD, which
is the sole purchaser and exporter of coffee beans in Ghana, would by 1991
have raised the coffee bean producer price to equivalent of 65 percent of
the F.O.B. price ex-Ghana ports and this together with the relinquishing of
the COCOBOD monopsony on bean purchases and exports through licensing of
S/NGOs have been active in the field of assisting cooperatives and rural
associations in Ghana. An NGO which has worked with 6 cooperative
organizations, in 1987, helped farmers at Ntinanko to establish a
cooperative and operate a palm oil mill based on a locally-developed
design. It launched a second similar operation at Prestea in 1988.



- 20 -
private dealers, would provide farmers with the incentive and confidence to
invest in coffee farm rehabilitation and replanting and even new-planting
particularly in cocoa areas afflicted with severe Swollen Shoot Virus
Disease (SSVD).  COCOBOD would provide improed planting material from its
nurseries. Existing cocoa extension agents would be trained in coffee
cultivation to impart technical advice to farmers directly while the
knowledge of specialist staff would be upgraded through training. Farmers
would finance rehabilitation and planting using mainly their own funds and
perhaps some from the banking system. 1500 ha of existing holdings would
be rehabilitated and a further 3000 ha either replanted or new-planted over
a period of six years. To facilitate coffee bean storage in the remoter
areas COCOBOD would construct 3 stores which would be available for use by
the private sector.
4.07      Coffee Research by CRIG.  To support the coffee rehabilitation
and planting program CRIG's capacity to carry out effective and relevant
research would be enhanced through the provision of essential field and
laboratory equipment, vehicles, consultancy services and overseas training
of staff. Production and propagation of improved planting material would
be an important area of research that would be complemented by agronomic
trials on spacing, weed cont.ol, mulching and fertilizer use; pest and
disease studies; physiological studies on fruit set and fruit development;
and chemical analysis of agrochemical residues and hybrid coffee beans.
Improvement of the dry processing method would also be researched.
3. Rubber Development
4.08      Rubber Outgrower Scheme.  GREL 61. which has a plantation of
8000 ha and a 29 t/day block rubber factory, would with the assistance of
consultants, both local and foreign, design an outgrower scheme consistent
with cultural and economic patterns prevailing in the vicinity of GREL's
plantation and factory which would form the nucleus estate. GREL who would
manage this first outgrower rubber project in Ghana would assist landowners
that have easy access to its factory to plant 1500 ha over 6 years
beginning 1992. Technical advice, and major inputs such as improved
planting material, fertilizer, and chemicals would be provided by GREL.
Cash advances would be made to farmers to cover a portion of the labor
costs to encourage farmers to adopt proper cultivation and maintenance
practices and would continue over seven years until the end of the first
year of tapping (harvesting). Outgrower rubber production would be
processed at GREL's rubber factory and costs recovered through levies or
deductions from payments for produce due to outgrowers. GREL would provide
6/At present, GREL is managed by SODECI under contract in connection with
rehabilitation of GREL's estate and factory. Phase I of the rehabilitation
program covering 1,000 ha and the factory was started in 1988 and completed
in October 1989 with a 35 million French Francs assistance from CCCE. A
proposal for a Phase II of the rehabilitation program is under
consideration. GREL is the only institution capable of providing the
technical and organizational back-up for a rubber outgrower program besides
having modern rubber processing facilities. In addition, SODECI has had
extensive experience in managing outgrower programs in Cote d'Ivoire.



- 21 -
technical advice and input supplies on a continuing basis to maintain
production quality and yields.
4.09      Rubber Processing and Production.   MOA would construct a
smallscale model artisanal ribbed smoked sheet (RSS) processing unit at its
Aiyinasi Station which is in the midst of the rubber growing region. The
factory would maximize the use of local materials in construction as well
as in processing operations and equipment. MOA staff would be trained in
rubber processing technology to enable them to conduct courses for rubber
smallholders and processors with the basic objective of raising the quality
of production which at the moment is extremely poor. Fron: the same station
MOA would operate a rubber production advisory service to assist
smallholders in improving cultivation and exploitation practices. This
interim assistance would dove-tail into MOA's proposed strengthening of
extension activities nationwide under a forthcoming project.
5. Horticultural Development
4.10      Technical Packages for Pineapples and Other Crops.  MOA would
establish a technical advisory service on horticultural crops within its
CSD to enable large, medium and small farmers to have access to essential
technical inputs to production. The dissemination of technical advice
would be through published material, direct contact with large and medium
size growers and through MOA extension staff in the case of small growers.
For a start CSD would develop relevant technical packages for pineapples
which is the major growth crop in the subsector. These packages would be
developed with the assistance of a well-established international research
institute with expertise in and experience with West African pineapple
farming systems based on exports of fresh pineapples. On-farm adaptive
research would be integral to the continuing refinement and revision of
these technical packages. A similar approach would be adopted for other
horticultural crops which show possibility of strong growth.
4.11      Market and Infrastructure Development.  GEPC would be
strengthened through staff training and contractual arrangements to provide
both general advice on market possibilities and make specific arrangements
to assist private exporters to penetrate and develop markets. The latter
would be accomplished by GEPC entering into agreements with established and
reputable marketing agencies which will, for a particular export, identify
the marketing channels, introduce individual exporters to reliable buying
agents, brokers or consumers and if needed participate in negotiations on
prices and commissions. This agency would monitor the performance of
Ghanaian exporters in these markets and provide them with advice on
overcoming problems that they may encounter. In addition to this service
GEPC would assist Ghana Horticultural Association (GHA) in negotiating
annual or longer term joint freight contracts with scheduled service and
charter airlines and shipping lines and to operate a centralized freight
booking system to optimize freight space allocation and utilization. GEPC
would maintain close liaison with the Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA)
on the latter's planning and implementation of airport facilities as these
are critical to the consolidation and expansion of Ghana's premium market
for pineapple exports and for horticultural exports. In the design and
construction of the cargo village at Kotoka Airport, which is undertaken



- 22 -
with CCCE assistance, GCAA would accord priority to the completion of cold
store and holding facilities for horticultural freight. Infrastructure
would be further improved with the resurfacing of 100 km of feeder roads in
the pineapple growing areas mostly within the vicinity of Accra.
4.12      Organization of Smallholder Production for Export.  Technical
assistance would be provided to MOA to carry out a diagnostic study of the
Sam-sam Pineapple Growers Cooperative (SPGC), the only cooperative of its
kind in Ghana, with the express purpose of determining whether it has the
potential to organize smallholders for pineapple production for export.
This study would be completed by June 30, 1991. If the findings of the
study are positive, MOA would arrange for requisite technical and
managerial assistance to be provided to the cooperative to develop it into
a viable small farmers' pineapple production and marketing organization
with the objective of achieving replicability on a wide scale. If SPGC is
considered not viable, then an alternative organizational system would be
proposed and agreed with IDA and implemented as a pilot project by MOA.
GEPC would assist in the design and preparation of pilot projects for
export of other horticultural crops. The projects would be based on the
concept of a village or a group of villages specializing in the production
of a specific crop which GEPC identifies as having immediate export
potential and which could be rapidly exploited by concentrating marketing
assistance and technical advice in a particular locality to facilitate
export management especially in terms of logistics and quality control.
6. Training, Studies, Technical Assistance and Project Coordination
4.13      Training.  Local management staff of GOPDC would be provided
training in enterprise management as most of the existing expatriate staff
would be replaced by local staff starting early in the project period.
COCOBOD staff would receive training in coffee technology and extension
while CRIG staff knowledge and skills would be upgraded to facilitate
improved coffee research. MOA staff in CSD stationed at Aiyinasi would be
given training in rubber processing technology as well as smallholder
cultivation and production systems. GREL staff involved in the rubber
outgrower scheme would be trained on the job after initial exposure to
relevant outgrower systems in and outside the country. MOA staff in CSD
would be trained in pineapple and other horticultural production systems to
expedite the development of technical packages for these crops.
4.14      Studies.  GOPDC would make recommendations on the possibility of
selling off its outgrower loans to local financial institutions with the
objective of transferring the responsibility for credit to institutions
more appropriate to the function. There would also be a study on labor
supply in the forest zone in order to provide more specific information on
labor availability for tree crops as it is often assumed labor is not a
constraint for the subsector. GEPC would by December 31, 1991 complete a
study on pineapple canning that will make detailed and specific proposals
as to how to revitalize and expand the pineapple canning industry in Ghana
in support of an anticipated expansion in pineapple cultivation.
4.15      Technical Assistance.  About 6 manyears of internationally
recruited technical assistance would be provided to GOPDC for the



- 23 -
management of its operations. CRIG vould have access to both long and
short term internationally recruited expertise in specialized areas of
coffee research. Technical assistance would also be provided to MOA to
design a model artisanal RSS processing unit and to train its CSD staff in
factory operation and quality control. For the development of technical
packages for export pineapple production, MOA would obtain assistance from
an international research institute which would second specialists in short
term assignments to advise, train and assist in the setting up of on-farm
trials. GEPC would engage internationally recruited expertise to monitor
performance of Ghanaian entrepreneurs in horticultural markets and assist
them in market penetration and servicing. GREL would engage
internationally recruited persons to the positions of Outgrower Project
Manager and Field Operations Head to implement the Rubber Outgrower
component. ADB would engage consultants to help them implement their MIS
system and improve loan administration. In total, the technical assistance
would amount to 29 man-years spread over 7 years and in the following
institutions: GOPDC (6 MY), GREL (8 MY), MOA (6 MY), CRIG (3.5 MY), GEPC
(S MY) and ADB (2.5 MY).
4.16      Project Coordination.  GEPC, with its role of promcting both
traditional and non-traditional export crops, would be the appropriate
coordinator for the project, particularly with regard to assisting in
marketing and pricing of products which has been a major problem in the
agricultural sector. A Project Coordination Unit in GEPC would monitor
project progress and would act as a secretariat to a Project Implementation
Committee (PIC) which would oversee the implementation of the project
(para 4.23).
D. Proiect Costs and Financing
1. Cost Estimate
4.17      The total cost of the project, including taxes (US$2.0 million),
is estimated at US$22.4 million equivalent, of which US$8.9 million or
40 percent is local cost. Inflation assumed from 1990 onwards is as
follows:
Foreign Z           Local X
1990             7.2                  15
1991             4.4                  10
1992 onwards     4.4                  05
Physical contingencies have been applied at the rate of 15 percent for
building and civil works and 10 percent for all other categories of
expenditure excluding technical assistance, salaries and management fees.
Contingencies, both price and physical, amount to US$4.9 million or 22
percent. In determining project financial costs a nominal exchange rate of
340 cedis to US$1 has been used for 1990 with gradual depreciation to 380
cedis by 1996. A project cost suimmary is given in the table below. Annex
4.01 provides tables on project costs by year, by components and by summary
accounts.



AOiCULtRL DIRSlIICATIOlN ""OECT
PRO T COST rUU Y
(CEDIS '000)                                     (USS '000)
I Total                                    Z Total
S Forein  lBs.                             I Foreign ha
Local     Foreign    Total    Exhawe  Costs   Local Forign  lotal  Exchanie  Cats
A. NIlTICLTRL E9ELPIIENT
1. OMWS EXPORT PRIITIOTN CIIUICIL                211,565.0  37S5.0  59.450.0             64     10   622.3  1.109.      n 1731.3    64      10
2. HlRTICULTURE rECINIC.L ADVISORY UNIT          268,254.0  455.845.0  724o.0.o          63     12   789.0  1340.7  29129.7         43      12
Sub-Total HNITICtkTWL   DEVELOPNENT                 419,819.0  632.93040 1.3120749.0        63     22  1,411.2  2449.  3,8961.0        63      22
Bo COFFEE DEWELOPIEIT
1. COCOOBD COfFEE REDILITATION AND PLNTINS       371,85.0    9,465.0  921.350.0         55     14  1,093.9  1,322.0  2,415.7       55      14
2. COCODOD COFFEE RESEACH                         60,048.6   34495.4  405,034.0          85       7   176.6  1,014.7  1,191.3       B5       7
Stb-Total COFEE DEWLOPINT                           431,933.*6  794,450.4 1,226,384.0       65     21  1270.4  2.3366  3,607.0        65      21
C. OIL PMI IIEVELO
1. 61C PHASE 3 OUT6AU1ER DEVELOPIENT             763t270.0  817t180.0 19560.450.0        52     27 2,244.9  2,403.5  4,648          52      27
2. IUTERNEDIA(E (ECNLIIY PALA OIL KILLS          203.452#5  355,797.5  559.440.0         64      9   59.0  1046.4  1645.4           64       9
Sub-Total OIL PALN  EELWNIENT                       966,922.5 1.1724967.5 2.139.890.0      55      36 2W643.9 3p449.9 6h293.8          55      36
o MU9ER DEUELOPNENT
1. RUM139C ADUISORY UNIT                          51,M.5  10O,529.5  151.752.0           66      3   150.7   295.7   446.3          66       3
2. RUBBER OTIBROIER DEUELOWPENT                  256,508.5  584.281.t   940,19.0         69      14   754.4  1,718.5 2.472.?        69      14
Sib-totl NUnDER  EUEIOPNEWT                         307,731.0  684811.0   M2542#0           69      17   905.1  2.014.2 24919.2        69      17
E. ADRICULTIW. KiEWLOPIENT DMA                       159513.0  1984957.0  2049470.0         9.      3    45.*6   555.9   601.4         92       3
F. PlIEC COORDINATION UNIT                           40,707.5   29,6925.  70.400,0          42       1   119.7    97.3   207.1         42       1
lotal DASELINE COSTS                                2.242.626.6 3.703,808.4 5,946.435.0      62    100 6v596.0 10.893.6 17,499.5         62    100
FPhsical Continimncies                             244.96l1,   2166448.3  461,609.4        47      9   720.5   637.2  1,357.7         47       9
Price Continncies                                  840S118.7 1.0939817.5 1933t936,2        57     3J 1,594.3  1,974.2  34568.5        55      20
otal PECT COSTS                                     33427066.4 5014124.3 8t341980.*6         60    140 84910.8 13504.9 22P415.7          60    128
:-Jut-= 29, 1990=:= 09:39                         =aS :-2       :    :    :             _.-:
June 29. IMf 09:39



- 25 -
2. Financina Plan
4.18      Of the total cost of US$22.4 million, IDA would finance US$16.5
million on standard IDA terms for Ghana with 40 years maturity. The Credit
representing 74 percent of the total project costs (81 percent excluding
taxes and duties) meets fully the foreign exchange costs and 34 percent of
the local costs. GOG would contribute 19 percent of the cost of the
project with private investors/farmers investing 7 percent. GOG would
onlend US$4.1 million to GOPDC; US$2.4 million to GREL; and provide equity
or budgetary subventions of US$3.0 milliu.. to COCOBOD and US$0.7 million to
ADB.
Financing Plan
Total                          Farmers/
Component                 Cost      IDA        GOG       Investors
GOPDC Outgrowers           6.3       4.1       0.9             1.3
ITSPMs                     2.1       1.8       0.3
Coffee Development         3.2       1.9       1.3
Coffee Research            1.5       1.1       0.4
GREL Outgrowers            3.1       2.4       0.4             0.3
MOA Rubber Unit            0.5        0.4      0.1
GEPC                       2.0       1.8       0.2
MOA Hort. Unit             2.7       2.2       0.5
ADB                        0.7       0.7        -
PCU                        0.3       0.1       0.2
Total          22.4       16.5      4.3             1.6
Z            100        74        19              7



- 26 -
3. Procurement
4.19      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Proposed Procurement Method 1/
(US$ million)
ICB       LCB        Other               Total
1. Buildings and
Civil Works                        3.8 (2.9)                    3.8 (2.9)
2. Vehicles,
Processing and
Other Equipment      1.3 (1.1)   1.8 (1.5)    0.2 (0.1)        3.3 (2.7)
3. Planting                            0.7 (0.6)    3.3 (2.1)        4.0 (2.7)
4. Technical Assistance                             8.3 (8.2)       8.3 (8.2)
Training, Studies and
Pilot Projects
5. Operating Costs 2/                               3.0 (0.0)        3.0 (0.0)
Totals            1.3 (1.1)   6.3 (5.0)   14.8(10.4)       22.4(16.5)
1, Figures in parentheses refer to IDA financing
2/ Includes local staff salaries (US$0.4 million).
Goods estimated to cost an equivalent of US$100,000 or more would be
procured through ICB procedures. US$1.3 million equivalent of vehicles and
equipment would be purchased under this procedure. Goods estimated to cost
an amount equivalent to more than US$60,000 but less than US$100,000 per
contract, and civil works would be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (LCB). Since GOG has no national
procurement code, all LCB procedures would be subject to confirmation from
GOG that these would include local advertising, public bid opening, clarity
of evaluation criteria, award to lowest evaluated bidder and non-exclusion
of foreign bidders. Procurement under LCB procedures in aggregate would
not exceed US$6.3 million and these would include US$3.8 million worth of
buildings and civil works including roads for which foreign contractors are
unlikely to be interested owing to the small size of individual contracts
and their wide geographical dispersion. The capability exists for such
construction within the country but foreign contractors would be allowed to
bid for these contracts. Research and office equipment and some vehicles
totalling US$1.8 million would be acquired through LCB in view of the
different timing of purchases by the several implementing agencies involved
and the small size of each package ranging from US$20,000 to US$50,000. As
purchases would be spread over 7 years and procurement would be handled at
different times by different implementing agencies, LCB procedures would be
complied with for the purchase of fertilizers and chemicals for the
planting of oil palms and rubber by outgrowers. Goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$60,000 per contract up to an aggregate



- 27 -
amount not to exceed the equivalent of US$1,500,000 would be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers. In accordance with current
practice planting operations would be carried out by outgrowers who provide
labor and tools to carry out land clearing, and crop planting and
maintenance with part labor payments, seedlings, fertilizers and chemicals
provided by GOPDC and GREL, the latter two items being procured annually by
the two agencies through LCB procedures. This system has been successfully
implemented in GU?DC under two previous IDA credits. Staff under technical
assistance for project operations would be selected in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Terms of reference, qualifications, terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to IDA. All bidding packages and contract
awards estimated at US$100,000 or more would be subject to prior Bank
review. This would result in a coverage of about 50 percent of value of
contracts. The remaining contracts would be subject to post-review after
contract awards.
4. Disbursements
4.20      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed over 8 years
beginning the first semester of FY91 through FY98. The disbursement
schedule in Annex 4-02 is based on the actual disbursement for a bank-
funded oil palm outgrower project in Ghana.



- 28 -
Disbursement by Categories
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount of Credit          3 of Expenditure
Category                           Allocated               to be Financed
100Z of foreign
exchange and the
following if
procured locally:
1. Buildings and Civil Works        2.9                           90
2. Vehicles, Ptocessing and
Other Equipment                2.7                          85
3. Planting                         2.7                           90
4. Technical Assistance,
Training, Studies and Pilot
Projects                       6.3                         100
5. Unallocated                      1.9
Total                          16.5
4.21      Disbursement against all expenditure would be based on full
documentation. However, disbursement against contracts for goods and
services of less than US$30,000 would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOE). The project implementing agency would have adequate
control over the preparation of SOEs, for which supporting documentation
would be kept for review by auditors and IDA supervision missions.
5. Special Account
4.22      To ensure that foreign funds for the project would be available
when needed and reduce the volume of low-value withdrawal applications
GOPDC, GREL, COCOBOD and GEPC would each establish a special account in US
dollars at a local commercial bank. Pre-financing of expenditures for MOA
and ADB would be from the GEPC special account. Upon credit effectiveness
and receipt of a withdrawal application, IDA would make an initial deposit
of US$200,000 equivalent to about four months of eligible expenditure in
each special account to be used solely for the purpose of prefinancing
goods and services under the credit. The special accounts would be
operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Should any
disbursement made from this account be found to be ineligible for financing
GOG would cause GOPDC, GXEL, COCOBOD and GEPC to deposit the corresponding
amount into the account prior to submission of any further replenishment
applications.



- 29 -
6. Reporting, Accounts and Audit
4.23      GOPDC, GREL, COCOBOD and GEPC would maintain separate accounts
for IDA financed projects and submit to IDA audited consolidated as well as
individual project accounts not later than six months from the end of each
accounting period. GOPDC, GREL, COCOBOD and GEPC would appoint independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, who in addition to the auditor's opinion and
the financial statement would make out 3 long form report, a copy of which
would be submitted to IDA. These auditors would also make separate audits
of the special accounts and claims under SOE procedures. MOA and ADB would
maintain a separate account of all expenditure related to IDA financing and
submit audited annual accounts to IDA not later than six months from the
end of each accounting period and this would include a separate audit of
the claims under SOE procedures. GOPDC, GREL, GEPC, COCOBOD, ADB and MOA
would submit quarterly progress reports on their portion of the project to
be received by IDA not later than 45 days from the end of each quarter of
the year in addition to submitting to IDA for information annual budgets
for each project component at least three months prior to the start of the
financial new year. Copies of all quarterly reports forwarded to IDA would
be submitted to the PCU. A project completion report would be prepared by
GEPC on all components of the project to be submitted to IDA not later than
six months after project closing.
E.   Pro3ect Implementation
1.   Organization and Management
4.24      The project would be implemented umder the overall
responsibility of a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) served by a PCU
located in GEPC. Since the project involves several ministries/agencies
(Agriculture, Industry, Trade and Tourism and COCOBOD) and that the
agricultural diversification aspects are linked to exports in the case of
rubber, coffee and horticulture and import substitution in the case of palm
oil, GEPC with its promotional role in exports would be the appropriate
location for the PCU. The PCU would report to a PIC to be chaired by a
representative of MOA. The following shall be members of the PIC.
Representative of MOA;
Representative of Ministry of Industry, Science and
Technology;
Representative of Ministry of Finance;
Chief Executive, COCOBOD;
Agricultural Development Bank;
General Manager, GOPDC;
General Manager, GREL;
Executive Secretary, GEPC.
The Chairman of the Committee shall be of PNDC Secretary or at least
Undersecretary status. The PIC would meet at least quarterly to review
progress and resolve implementational problems. Problems which require
intervention at a higher level would be taken up to that level by GEPC or
the concerned organization as may be agreed at the quarterly review



- 30 -
meetings or through day-to-day interaction between members of the PIC. The
Chairman and Secretary of the GHA would be invited to participate in these
quarterly meetings on matters pertaining to horticulture. The Project
Organization Chart is at Annex 4.03 and the Project Implementation Schedule
is at Annex 4.04. The PCU, besides monitoring project progress would be
responsible for operating the GEPC special account whicn would also be used
by MOA and ADB. In addition, it would manage the procurement arrangements
for components implemented by GEPC, MOA and ADB.
2. GOPDC Private Oil Palm Outgrowers
4.25      The high investment in a monocrop plantation irrespective of
size requires a high management and technology input if reasonable yields
are to be obtained. For an outgrower program tl;ere has to be intensive
extension and adequate input supply during the immaturity period of 4
years. The outgrower unit operating out of the GOPDC nucleus estate at
Kwae would provide the extension with technical and managerial
infrastructure support plus inputs in the form of oil palm seedlings, cover
crop seeds, chemicals and fertilizers. Assurance has been obtained from
GOG that GOPDC would avoid the use of toxic chemicals, follow sound
environmental practices, and pay particular attention to erosion control
(para 6.01(a)). Participants would supply all the labor and tools for the
land clearing and make a down-payment equivalent to 202 of the cost of
planting material. GOPDC would advance 50 percent of the cost of labor.
Participants would be encouraged to intercrop with maize and plantain in
the pre-maturity period of 3 years; other inter-crops being approved by
GOPDC cn basis of compatibility and as accepted. Each planting site would
be approved by GOPDC staff on the basis of being fallow or previously
cultivated land with suitable soils, which have low susceptibility to
erosion, and being within 20 chains of an access track or feeder road.
While a majority of the sites would be located in the GOPDC Phase 3 area,
additional participants would be sought in the existing Phase 1 and 2 areas
on the same criteria except that GOPDC could construct or extend access
tracks on the assumption of cost savings in transport to the mill which is
closer to these phases. Feeder roads of 30 km would be constructed between
Kwae and Adwafo to provide improved access to Phase 3. In addition 90 km
of existing feeder roads would be upgraded. Participation would be limited
to land owners with demonstrable financial resources to meet one-third of
development costs for 1 to 5 ha over the first 4 years. The existing GOPDC
outgrower selection committee would maintain proper records of the basis of
selection of each participant. Upon being selected to participate in a
particular year's development program the participant would be required to
sign an outgrower agreement with GOPDC and pay in advance 20 percent of the
cost of the planting material. He would be provided with a work schedule
detailing the works to be undertaken by him in the first year. Similar
schedules would be provided in subsequent years. A model outgrower
agreement satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of disbursement for the
GOPDC portion of the credit (para 6.02(a)). The signing of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the GOG and GOPDC, which specifies the terms and
conditions on which GOPDC manages the outgrower program on behalf of GOG,
would also be a condition of disbursement for the GOPDC portion of the
credit (para 6.02(b)). Input supplies and labor costs advanced to
outgrowers in exchange for the outgrowers' crop would be coated at full



cost including market rate financial charges and would be recovered through
deductions from crop payments at the GOPDC mill. GOG would onlend iDA
funds to GOPDC in cedi terms at variable and market determined interest
rates equal to the average rates paid by primary banks for tera deposits
with repayment over 30 years. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations (para 6.01(b)). Commercial banks' lending rates range from
23-272 p.a. taiat is slightly below the estimated inflation of 28 percent
for 1989. Bank-by bank credit ceilings which are at present the principal
instrument of monetary policy in Ghana distort determination of interest
rates and limit competition among banks. In line with its policy of
financial liberalization the government expects to introduce indirect
methods of monetary control shortly.
4.26      GOPDC currently carries onto its balance sheet the loans that it
has extended to smallholders and outgrowers 7/. Even though past efforts
at offering GOPDC equity to the private sector have had poor response it is
the intention of GOG that GOPDC be privatized, and it would be appropriate
at this juncture to differentiate between the assets and liabilities that
should accrue to the nucleus estate operation, including the mill, and
those of the smallholder or outgrower credit and extension activities
un.dertaken on behalf of GOG. GOPDC would, by June 30, 1992, submit to IDA
recommendation of studies on: (i) the separation of the nucleus estate and
smallholder/outgrower accounts; (ii) the feasibility of selling the
smallholder/outgrower loans to financial institutions, and (iii) the impact
of the sales tax on palm oil consumption and marketing patterns (para
6.01(c)). Among the options to be considered for loan buyers would be a
fixed discount or premium on the total interest and capital outstanding at
time of sale or a basic discount or premium with the financial institution
and GOG sharing the actual returns above or below the basic premium or
discount. It is anticipated that smallholders/outgrowers in Phase 1 and
those who had started in the early years of Phase 2 would have relatively
low outstanding loans given the rapid depreciation of the cedi in the last
few years and should be attractive to buyers provided GOPDC continues to
provide technical advice and advance maintenance inputs, which it should,
in the interest of obtaining raw material for its large 30 t/hr mill.
GOPDC shall submit to IDA, not later than June 30, 1991, a program for the
management of nucleus estate/outgrower operations acceptable to IDA, and
shall not modify such program thereafter without prior consultation with
IDA (para 6.01(d)).
4.27      Ninety percent of GOPDC's palm oil sales are to Lever Brothers
and this places it in a very vulnerable position when this buyer has a
shutdown or is able to obtain less expensive alternative raw material for
soap production. Consequently, GOPDC would increase its efforts to
diversify its market and increase its palm oil sales to smaller buyers. It
would avoid, as far as is possible, agreeing with major buyers on a single
7/As at 31 December 1988 GOPDC had an accumulated profit of cedis 167
million in spite of a loss of cedis 140 million in 1987 brought about by a
severe decline in production caused by a leaf-miner attack on est-te and
outgrower palms. 1989 profit is forecast at cedis 90 million, and 1990 at
cedis 95 million.



- 32 -
price for palm oil for periods as long as 6 months. It would instead
attempt to introduce to its buyers an offer and bid system with no prices
being concluded for delivery beyond 3 months forward unless exceptional
circumstances warrant. Similarly, the current practice of using a standard
price for oil palm fruit irrespective of demand and supply which leaves
GOPDC paying higher prices during the peak crop season and uncompetitive
prices during the lc-w-crop period would be abandoned. In order to improve
utilizatlon of the mill capacity fruit prices during the low-crop would be
made more competitive and during the peak-crop prices would be adjusted to
those of the competition. GOPDC would establish the purchase price of oil
palm fruits on the basis of the prevailing prices of palm oil and kernels
taking into account seasonal variations in the supply of oil palm fruits
and prices paid by competitors in the GOPDC mill supply area. Assurances
were obtained to this effect (para 6.01(e)). There is a presumption that
the 10 percent sales tax on crude palm oil penalizes the large producers by
excluding them from the large informal edible oil market which is dominated
by small private producers who although technically liable for the tax do
not in practice pay it. The study mentioned under para 4.26 (iii) would
assess the impact of the sales tax on palm oil consumption and marketing
patterns and whether there is a case for its revision in so far as it
affects the oil palm subsector.
3. Intermediate Tezhnology Private Small-Scale Palm Oil Milling
4.28      The traditional village mill with its high labor requirements
and low investment but poor oil extraction (12x) has been the main means of
palm oil processing for the small producer in Ghana where accessibility to
the more modern mills (19-212 oil extraction) has been poor and in addition
most of these too have been run rather badly. With the massive devaluation
of the cedi, the construction and operation of the modern mills with high
import content is outside the reach of most Ghanaian entrepreneurs. The
cheapest of such mills of capacity of 0.5 ton of FFB/hr would cost
US$170,000. In recent years, a less costly processing facility which
provides an oil extraction rate of 15-17 percent has appeared on the scene.
The cost of a 0.5 ton facility is about US$40,000 and several investments
have taken place in such mills. The major obstacle to an expansion in
these types of mills is an inadequate disseminatior. of technology and a
lack of credit and managerial skills. An NGO has assisted the construction
and operation of two such mills by providing credit, managerial assistance
and training. However, the NGO does not have the resources to extend this
kind of assistance to more privately owned mills. The project would
provide funds for contracting an NGO to provide the following services: (i)
feasibility study and design; (ii) supervision of construction and
equipment installation; (iii) training of mill managers, bookkeepers and
equipment operators; (iv) design and install accounting systems; (v)
monitoring of mills' technical and financial perfor'Aance, and (vi) repair
and overhaul mill machinery; (vii) assist in the ..stablishment of new mills
where demand appears to be the strongest whici is in the southern part of
Brong Ahafo Region, the northern part of the Western Region and the western
part of Kumasi Region. It is estimated altogether 60 new mills would be
constructed during the project period. An estimated US$2.5 million in
credit would be needed to finance these mills and it is anticipated that
ADB and other financial institutions would avail themselves of the Rural



- 33 -
Finance Project credit line to support these operations. While the current
design of the improved mill is adequate, there are several areas,
particularly in respect of reduction of labor input, which need to be
investigated and appropriate modifications made to the design and layout.
MOA would also finance a training center to be operated under the technical
assistance program. The cost of NGO staff and logistical support would be
met by MOA through project funds. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that MOA would by June 30. 1991 sign a satisfactory agreement with a non-
governmental organizatic, specifying the obligations of both parties for
the implementation of the ITSPM program (para 6.01(f)).
4. Coffee Planting, Rehabilitation and Research
4.29      COCOBOD would through its extension service encourage existing
coffee farmers to rehabilitate their holdings. The main incentive to
rehabilitate would be a higher producer price which would be raised from
the current which is less than 40 percent of FOB value to at least 60
percent in 1989 and 65 percent in 1990 and thereafter. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that COCOBOD would establish in consultation with
IDA not later than June 30, 1991, a producer pricing mechanism for coffee
based on border pricing and taking into account the processing, transport,
and marketing costs in relation to the prevailing FOB price, it being
understood that the producer price shall not be less than 65? of the FOB
price, except as IDA shall agree (para 6.01(g)). The increase in prices is
expected to generate increased interest in rehabilitation of existing
coffee farms. Farmers, however, would have to incur substantial
expenditure on labor and inputs in the initial year and farmers who do not
have their own cash resources would need financial assistance (Annex 5-
01). Almost all of the expenditure would be recovered by the third year.
If the cash deficit of the first year is financed by a short term loan from
a financial institution, it could be paid in equal annual installments in
years 2,3 and 4 at the prevailing market interest rate which is assumed to
be 15 percent in the crop budget in Annex 5.01. COCOBOD would continue to
provide planting material for filling in vacant spots or replacing
unprofitable trees. In line with current practice, there would be
subsidies initially, but assurances have been obtained that COCOBOD shall
sell its coffee planting material to outgrowers at declining rates of
subsidies with full cost recovery to be achieved in 1995 (para 6.01(h)).
COCOBOD would intensify its coffee extension activities to facilitate
rehabilitation in response to the increased producer prices. The training
of COSD extension agents and specialist staff would be specially geared to
this. Rehabilitation of the coffee hectarage is expected to progress as
follows: 200 (PY2), 300 (PY3), 400 (PY4) and 600 (PY5).
4.30      COCOBOD would also promote the replanting and new planting of
coffee, particularly in areas where cocoa is susceptible to SSVD. Unlike
rehabilitation this activity would require extended financing over the
immaturity period of 5 years (Annex 5.01). It would not be advisable for
COCOBOD to get into such type of financing basically because it is ill-
equipped to do so. The same would apply to rehabilitation even though it
involves only one year of cash outlay plus three years of collection. It
would be more appropriate for COCOBOD to get interested farmers to form
mutual guarantee groups to seek term financing from normal banking channels



- 34 -
which could utilize the term funds available under the Rural Finance
Project. Replanting or new planting is likely to proceed at a slow pace
given the conservative banking practices and a generally weak rural finance
sector. Most new planting or replanting would take_ place either through
self-financing or through the informal system. In order to reduce the
heavy financial burden of the early years and provide some return
intercropping with plantain and other compatible crops during the first
three years would be encouraged. Returns from intercropping with plantain
would more than offset the interest payments on capital for years 2 and 3
of the five-year investment period (Annex 5.01). The annual
planting/replanting hectarage is estimated at 200 (PY2), 400 (PY3), and 800
(PY4, 5 and 6). The supply of planting material would be from COCOBOD who
would also provide prophylactic spray chemicals. The project would finance
15 budwood gardens and 45 propagation pits to provide planting material for
replanting, new planting and rehabilitation in-filling. As COCOBOD is in
the process of disengaging from input distribution, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that COCOBOD would not involve itself in input
distribution in villages and areas where registered private dealers operate
(para 6.01(i)). Assurances were also obtained that COCOBOD would permit
and encourage the purchasing, hulling and exporting of coffee by private
entrepreneurs, and a review of the progress achieved in privatizing these
aspects would be carried out jointly with IDA at the end of 1992 (para
6.01(j)). In pursuance of this, COCOBOD would provide wide publicity to
this change in policy and insert a statement in mass-circulating Ghanaian
newspapers, inviting private organizations or individuals to register with
COCOBOD for the purpose of engaging in the purchasing or hulling or
exporting of coffee. This would be a condition of disbursement of the
COCOBOD component of the credit (para 6.02(c)). COCOBOD is already
pursuing a policy to privatize its plantations, but progress has been
rather limited.
5.  CRIG Coffee Research
4.31      In support of the coffee rehabilitation and expansion program
CRIG would undertake research on coffee at its main station at Tafo and its
substations at Bonsu and Afosu. Special attention would be paid to
broadening the genetic base, appropriate pruning techniques, developing a
set of fertilizer recommendations and innavations to help reduce labor
requirements and overall unit cost of production. CRIG would backstop COSD
on technology to be transmitted to farmers by the latter's extension staff
who would provide feedback on farmers' problems so as to ensure that
research continues to be demand-driven. COCOBOD would highlight in its
quarterly reports a list of farmer's operational problems that have been
identified and what action has been taken to resolve them. This would be a
particularly important role for both institutions as rehabilitation of
existing mature holdings is forecast to increase with an increase in
producer prices. The provision of improved parent planting material for
multiplication and dissemination by COSD would be an essential function of
CRIG.



- 35 -
6. Rubber Outgrowers
4.32      GREL, which is the only large plantation-cum-factory complex for
rubber in Ghana and which is currently undergoing rehabilitation would be
responsible for the design and implementation of an outgrower scheme for
rubber in the vicinity of its rubber factory and plantation in the Western
Region. It would submit to IDA an outgrower project implementation plan by
June 30, 1991 that amongst others would take into account the following:
(a) the most appropriate holding size, (b) the maximum distance of holdings
from GREL, (c) types of inputs and labor costs to be advanced by GREL, (d)
annual outgrower program from PY2 to PY7, (e) staffing and organization
requirements, and (f) processing arrangements. Assurances were obtained
that GREL shall furnish to IDA (i) not later than June 30, 1991 an
implementation plan and management program for the rubber outgrower schemes
satisfactory to IDA, and shall not modify such plan and program without
prior consultation with IDA, and (ii) not later than December 31, 1991, a
model outgrower services and input supply agreement satisfactory to IDA
(para 6.01(k)).
4.33      The outgrower project design which would be subject to
amendments arising from the recommendations of the implementation plan
would have the following basic features:
(a)  a rubber outgrower unit (ROU) financed by GOG but operating out
of GREL would provide intensive extension and inputs in the form
of planting material, cover crops seeds, fertilizers and
chemicals in addition to cash for labor, if provided for in the
implementation plan;
(b)  ROU would avoid the use of toxic chemicals, observe IDA's
Environmental Guidelines and make erosion control an essential
element of technical packages provided to outgrowers;
(c)  land holdings would be cleared by outgrowers using family and
hired labor, and maize and plantain would be promoted as
intercrops for the first three years to reduce dependence on
credit and to maintain field up1knep at a high level during the
critical plant growth years of thib '.ong gestation crop;
(d) ROU staff would advise farmers on site selection to emphasize
prevention of soil erosion;
(e)  participants would be selected from individuals or groups who
are able to prove ownership of a minimum of one hectare per
individual; and
(f)  outgrower selection would be made by a ROU Selection Committee
to be chaired by the General Manager of GREL and consisting of
the Head of ROU and three community leaders from the locality of
the project selected by GREL in consultation with the
Undersecretary for Agriculture in the Western Region.



- 36 -
4.34      Assurances were obtained that GREL shall, in providing extension
services, follow sound environmental practices and pay particular attention
to erosion control, and shall in the provision of inputs avoid the use of
toxic chemicals (para 6.01(1). Input supplies and labor costs advanced to
outgrowers would be costed at full cost including market rate financial
charges. The recovery of these costs would be through deductions at the
GREL factory which would process the outgrower produce. Signing a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOG and GREL satisfactory to IDA, and
specifying the terms and conditions on which GREL would manage the rubber
outgrower program, would be a condition of disbursement for the rubber
component of the project (para 6.02(d)). Assurances were obtained that IDA
funds would be onlent to a Rubber Outgrower Account managed by GREL in cedi
terms at variable and market interest rates equal to the average rates paid
by primary banks for term deposits with repayment over 30 years (para
6.01(b)). In view of the outgrower project being first of its kind in
Ghana and that the extension and technical assistance inputs would be
disproportionately high as only 1200 ha would be developed, all ROU costs
would be treated as grants as a substitute for normal government extension
costs. GREL, which is constructing a new crumb rubber factory would make
provision for the processing of outgrower produce, and assurances were
obtained at negotiations that GREL would pvtrchase and sell rubber at market
determined prices (para 6.01(m)).
7.  Rubber Snallholders
4.35      MOA would establish a rubber advisory unit at its Aiyinasi
Station in order to support the operations of existing private operators
and smallholders.  MOA would construct a model artisanal RSS processing
plant and use it for training and demonstration and purposes for the
benefit of private rubber smallholders and processors. The design of the
factory would maximize the use of local construction materials and it would
be developed with the assistance of a short-term consultant with extensive
experience in rubber smallholder processing systems. A factory technician
would be trained to operate the factory and in addition to conducting
training courses he would make visits to private factories to advise them
on improving the quality of production and help them on factory design. A
rubber agronomist would organize training courses on rubber cultivation
practices and tapping for persons engaged in rubber growing and
exploitation. The agronomist would also visit private smallholdings to
impart advice on improvement of cultivation practices and tapping methods.
Both, the agronomist and the factory technician would put out pamphlets
providing advice on rubber cultivation methods, tapping, latex collection,
preservation and processing, and factory construction.
8. Pineappie Export Program
4.36      Although pineapple is seen as the major horticultural export in
the coming years, the infrastructure, the financial services, and technical
service would be largely generic to other horticultural exports such as
avocados, mangoes, other fruits and vegetables and even cut-flowers.
Entrepreneurs are expected to diversify into these other products on the
tail of the infrastructure being set up for pineapples. In the area of
marketing, consultant agencies would be retained by GEPC for market



- 37 -
development to assist exporters by identifying markets, introducing the
exporters to these markets and facilitating the export of the first two
shipments. Each agency would continue to monitor the performance of
exporters in a particular market from time to time as GEPC may request.
Exporters would be able to use the services of the GEPC contracted agency
without charge, up to a maximum of US$10,000 in consultant costs upon
submission of a proposal setting out the objectives and the types of
assistance required and such information as may be required by GEPC. The
proposal would have to receive the approval of the Executive Secretary of
GEPC which would depend on whether the proposal would lead to opening of a
new market or a special segment of an existing market and that it has
potential for substantial growth of Ghanaian exports. No person or
organization would be permitted to use the services of the GEPC agency a
second time without paying for the costs in full. Auditors appointed by
GEPC to audit project accounts would review each approval at the time of
audit and include in their redort their findings as to whether the GEPC-
funded marketing service have been used in accordance with the objectives
and procedures. The Ministry of Transport and Communications, through GCAA
and Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA), intends to improve cargo
freighting facilities at Kotoka Airport and Tema Port. In the case of the
former a cargo village currently under design and to be constructed by 1992
would include a cold store facility which is desirable for fresh fruit and
other perishable exports. In the meantime to cope with the increasing
pineapple exports GCAA has allowed one major exporter to establish a
temporary container packing facility at Kotoka. GEPC, with the cooperation
of GCAA would monitor the use of the airport facilities and facilitate
their utilization through GHA's proposed freight booking center (para
4.10). GEPC would detail one staff with expertise in freight matters to
work with GHA to set up and operate the center. To enable exports by sea,
GPHA has facilities for providing electric power for 20 refrigerated
containers and with increased pineapple production, sea freight would be
the lower cost alternative to air freight for non-premium exports. GEPC
would continue to monitor exports by sea as some are already taking place
and as the volume increases explore the possibility of using refrigerated
ships which are already calling at other West African ports for lifting
pineapples and bananas. To cope with the expansion in cultivation and
production of pineapples 100 km of public feeder roads, which provide
small, medium and large farms access to main roads, would be rehabilitated
under the project by the Ghana Feeder Roads Department.
4.37      Approximately 13 farms, varying from 8 to 550 ha and under
various stages of cultivation or fallow, accounted for more than 90 percent
of the 5,000 tons of fresh pineapples exported by Ghana in 1988. The
current practice is to take an eighteen-month crop, wait for 6 to 7 months
or for production of suckers which could continue for 2-3 years depending
on the demand for suckers. While the basic practice is not expected to
change assistance from CSD of MOA with technical inputs from an
international research institute, particularly for fertilizer
recommendations and timing of harvests, would assist pineapple producers to
use their resources more efficiently to improve yields and reduce supplies
during periods of low demand. Drip or sprinkler irrigation, which is being
tested by some growers, could reduce the growing period by 25 percent.
With improved availability of credit through the Rural Finance Project and



- 38 -
better technical advice from MOA, pineapple exports are likely to increase
as follows: 7000 tons (1989), 10,000 tons (1990) and 20,000 tons (1995).
Credit requirements include financing of capital goods and working capital
and in the case of the latter post-shipment finance is just as important as
the pre-shipment financing as freight and marketing costs can be as high as
70 percent of local CIF cost. The initiative taken by ADB to increase its
lending for pineapple exports would provide the necessary fillip to this
rapidly developing industry. However, ADB itself needs to take on an
agronomist on its staff to enable to better appraise the technical basis of
proposals with the assistance of CSD. ADB would rely on GEPC for
assistance on evaluation of market prospects. Commercial banks would also
continue to lend in this area. Investors would need assistance to finance
on farm packing and storage facilities, trucks and traile-s, lease or
purchase of reefer containers and even possibly lease of freight aircraft.
The Rural Finance Project's line of credit would be a convenient means of
obtaining term financing estimated requirements for which are about US$5
million up to 1995.
9. Agricultural Development Bank
4.38      The ADB is one of several banks undergoing restructuring as
provided for under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. No. 1911-64
approved in 1989). The main features of the framework which were approved
by government in July 1989 are (i) all non-performing loans to state-owned
enterprises would be removed from th balance-sheet of banks and replaced
by performing assets; (ii) provisions against non-performing loans to
private sector borrowers would likewise be replaced by performing assets;
(iii) performing assets would be in the form of Bank of Ghana bonds
redeemable against cash over a number of years; (iv) non-performing assets
will generally be transferred to a recovery agency to be supported by a
Special Tribunal; and (v) banks would be recapitalized by their existing
shareholders up to a level as has been legislated. ADB with its good
network of branches and a good resource of skilled personnel is expected to
take the lead in utilizing the proceeds of the Rural Finance Project credit
line in support of viable investments identified under this project which
include ITSPMs, cocoa rehabilitation and new planting, artisanal rubber
factories and pineapple export operations. As neither the Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit nor the Rural Finance Project has provisions for
assistance for hardware and operating systems the project would provide for
immediate requirements of technical assistance for computer installation
for a management information system being developed with IFAD assistance
and for the improvement of their loan administration system. A limited
amount of hardware and vehicles would also be provided to improve training
and staff mobility, the latter being essential for a bank working with
rural clients. Assurances were obtained that ADB would engage an
experienced agronomist by December 1990 to provide technical inputs to its
appraisal of pineapple and other horticultural projects (para 6.01(m)).



- 39 -
V. PRODUCTION AND PROFITABILITY
5.01      The two principal factors determining higher production and
profitability in tree crop farming are the incentive framework and the
technical aspects of production. Assuming a stable and improving macro
environment, and early introduction of pricing and trade policies conducive
to an efficient incentive framework for tree crop cultivation, the extent
of increase in production and profitability will depend on the available
crop technology. To enable higher productivity and incomes in the tree
crop subsector, the project proposes the use of an improved level of
technology for each tree crop being considered. Given below are the
technical and pricing aspects that would make for profitable cultivation,
terms for cost recovery, the environmental effects, justification and
benefits, and project risks. The main analysis is based on net returns and
gross margin per man day derived from one hectare crop budget analyses
assuming no intercropping; models for intercropping have also been
developed and discussed. Details of the technical coefficients and
constant and current crop budgets, with and without intercropping, are
given in Annex 5.01. A similar approach taken for pineapple cultivation
together with the crop budgets is included in Annex 5.02. The
profitability of ITSMs is assessed in Annex 5.03.
A. Profitability
5.02      (i) Oil Palm: imported selected Tenera (D*P) seeds will be
planted on the GOPDC outgrower scheme of 3,500 hectares and at full
maturity, this would translate into 31,000 tons of FFB at a yield of 9 tons
FFB per hectare, and 6,650 tons of palm oil assuming an extraction rate of
21 percent; this is almost 17 percent of the projecLed palm oil deficit in
the year 2005 8/. During the four year development phase for oil palm,
the bulk of the labour requirement will be for land preparation, planting,
circle weeding and pest and disease control, and at maturity, in the fifth
year, almost 45 percent for harvesting and the rest mainly for weeding. At
maturity, fertilizer constitutes more than 70 percent of the cost of
material and equipment. The peak yield of 9 tons per hectare during years
9 through 19 is expected to decline to 7.5 tons by the twenty-fifth year.
5.03      On the basis of import parity prices using Bank forecasts in
constant 1990 prices the oil palm outgrower budget in Table 5.1.3 in Annex
5.01 shows gross financial returns per manday at 10 times the daily wage of
cedis 350 and net returns at 9 times during peak year yields. On the basis
of these returns outgrower oil palm cultivation appears to be highly
profitable. Assuming loan financing of 65 percent of pre-maturity costs
over 5 years and a 15 percent interest rate and repayment over 15 years
from harvesting, the repayment burden as a percentage of gross revenue
8/For assumptions underlying deficit, see Annex 3.03, Scenario 1.



- 40 -
averages 223 percent in constant terms and 16 percent in current terms 9/.
This is an acceptable ratio as a high repayment rate would be a
disincentive to oil palm fruit delivery to a nucleus estate and mill which
advances the production inputs in the immature and mature stages.
5.04      The 60 ITSPMs to be established during the project period would
add approximately 2,600 tons to the annual production of palm oil on the
basis of incremental production of about 33 percent more oil over existing
village mills which have an extraction rate of 12 percent versus 16 percent
for ITSPMs. This benefit would accrue to producers who would use ITSPMs as
toll processing units in the same way current traditional technology mills
are being used. The economic and financial return on each mill excluding
the incremental benefit accruing to the producer is 14 percent (Annex
5.02). If the benefit to the producer is included then the return is
104 percent.
5.05      (ii) Coffee: improved planting material for robusta coffee would
consist of selected clonal rooted cuttings to be produced by CRIG (five
selected clones), and certified seed to be imported from the Ivory Coast
and the Cameroon. During the project period, an area of 3,000 hectares
would be planted, and 1,500 hectare, rehabilitated. With new planting or
replanting, yields are expected to stabilize at 900 kg per hectare starting
year 11, and with rehabilitation t  600 kg per hectare from year 4 onwards;
in years of coppicing the yields ould be lower. This would imply a total
production of 2,700 tons and 900 tons respectively, which approximates to
0.07 percent in terms of current world supply and even lower in terms of
future supply. Given Ghana's comparative advantage and the very small
quantity involved no export marketing problems are foreseen. For new
planting and replanting, the labour requirements during the 3 year
development phase would average as high as 131 mandays per year, and about
113 mandays on average thereafter. For rehabilitation, the labour
requirement is lower at 117 mandays in the first 3 years, and about 85
mandays thereafter. Coppicing would take place for new planting initially
in the ninth year and every fifth year thereafter, and for rehabilitation
in the first year and every sixth year thereafter. The main expenditure
item in materials and equipment each year is fertilizer at an average of
over 65 percent for new planting and almost 45 percent for rehabilitation;
chain saw hire, too, is important in years when trees must be coppiced.
5.06      During project preparation, at an exchange rate of cedis 250 to
the dollar, the price of robusta coffee was cedis 186 per kg of hulled
coffee, 40 percent less than the FOB value.  Very recently in July 1989,
the Government announced a 48 percent increase in the price of coffee; the
new price per kg of hulled coffee for the 1988/89 season being set at
9/ Underlying the 15 percent interest rate is the assumption of a 5 percent
real rate of interest and the following inflation forecasts: 20 percent
(1990), 15 percent (1991) and 10 percent thereafter, these are relatively
more conservative than the Western Africa Department projections of August
24, 1989, given as follows: 15 percent (1990), 5 percent (1992-95), and 5
percent 1996 through 2000. The same assumptions hold for the crop budget
analyses for each of the remaining tree crops.



- 41 -
cedis 275. According to the appraisal mission estimates, with input
coefficients commensurate with an improved level of technology, both new
planting and replanting of coffee would be profitable only if the price is
increased to cedis 380 per kg of hulled coffee. The increase would bring
the price to about 63 percent of the FOB value at an exchange rate of cedis
365 to the dollar, less the cost of hulling, transport and a trading margin
of 20 percent. In 1990 constant terms, for new planting and replanting the
net returns and gross margin per manday would be 4 times and 6 times
respectively, the daily wage during the peak years, and 6 times and 7 times
respectively, for rehabilitation. Assuming borrowing to be 71 percent of
total costs (Annes 5.01), the burden of the loan payment as a percent of
gross revenue is 22 percent and 15 percent respectively for new planting,
in 1990 constant and current terms. These appear to be acceptable ratios
for providing financing since the producer would continue to retain a
substantial portion of his returns after repayment. For rehabilitation,
assuming borrowing at 62 percent of first year costs, the net return per
manday comes close to 6 times the daily wage in peak years, and the gross
margin per w.an day to 7 times the daily wage (Annex 5.01). These are
sufficient incentives for rehabilitation as evidenced by the increased
interest in coffee production at the current lower producer prices.
5.07      (iii) Rubber: the improved planting material will include clonal
budded stumps of the following varieties: GT-1, PB-235, PB-260, PB-330,
RRIH-600, PR-261, and AV-2037, and selected IRCA clones from the Ivory
Coast. An area of 1,200 hectares is proposed to be planted by outgrowers
starting with 100 hectares in PY3, 200 hectares in PY4, and 300 hectares
each in PY5, PY6 and PY7. At the peak yield of 1.4 tons of raw rubber per
hectare, a total production of 1,700 tons is expected. This incremental
production approximates 80 percent of current production in Ghana. This
is, however, only 0.06 percent of projected world supply and no export
marketing problems are thus foreseen. The crop has a long gestation period
of 6 years during which an average of 50 mandays per hectare will be
required per year, the bulk of it for weeding, except in the first year
when labour for land preparation and planting will be important accounting
for more than 75 percent of the total. At maturity, 70 percent of the
labour time of 80 mandays per year will be necessary for tapping, and the
remainder for weeding. Of the equipment and materials, fertilizer will be
the dominant expenditure item during the development phase, and chemical
stimulant for tapping, and tapping tools, the important items thereafter
(Annex 5.01).
5.08      On the basis of Bank price forecasts, at an export parity price
of cedis 290 per kg at an exchange rate of cedis 365 to the US dollar,'-the
net returns and gross margin per manday are estimated at 8 times and 9
times respectively, the daily wage. Assuming borrowing at 85 percent of
total cost, the loan repayment as a percent of gross revenue works out to
34 percent in constant terms and 23 percent in current terms (Annex 5.01).
Given the long gestation period the price for year 2000 in 1990 constant
prices was used in the financial profitability analysis. The returns are
therefore financially attractive but the long gestation period is unlikely
to attract too many investors. Thus, the limited intervention in this
project.



- 42 -
5.09      The crop budgets so far discussed have been mono crop budgets
that have not considered the benefits to the farmer of intercropping. This
is to demonstrate the attractive financial profitability of each of the
three tree crops under the specific and recomended improved crop
technology and border prices with reference to the Bank's commodity price
projections and a projected exchange rate of cedis 365 to the dollar for
1990. Intercropping is a common practice in the forest zone, the gestation
period of these tree crops long, and the requirements of fertilizer,
chemicals and labour steady. Intercropping would take place as follows:
oil palm with maize in the first year and with plantain in the second and
third years; coffee with plantain in the second and third years; and rubber
with maize in the first two years and with plantain in the second and third
years. A significant improvement shows in the farmer's net returns and
gross margin per manday due to intercropping in the years prior to the
first yield. For oil palm and rubber, these are positive in years 2 and 3
instead of negative. For coffee, these are positive starting year 2
onwards (Annex 5.01). Even though the benefit of intercropping cannot tide
the farmer through every year up to the first harvest for each crop, it
does assist in strengthening the cash flow of the farmer in the first two
to three years which are always financially very difficult.
5.10      A rate of return analysis indicates overall positive results for
the cultivation of the three tree crops being encouraged through the
proposed project. Price sensitivity analyses, too, corroborate this
finding. Given in the table below are the financial and economic rates of
return for the planting of oil palm, coffee and rubber, and the
rehabilitation of coffee. The analysis uses 1990 as base year assuming it
to be the first year of the project. However, taking into consideration
specific gestation periods, the base case for oil palm and coffee planting
assumes year 1995 prices in 1990 constant terms, that for rubber year 2000
prices in 1990 constant terms, and that for coffee rehabilitation year 1990
constant prices. For the economic analysis, an overall standard conversion
factor (SCF) of 0.93 has been used. In terms of price sensitivity, coffee
rehabilitation, appears to be the most sensitive to a fall in price, since
a low base price is used. The relatively low rates of return for rubber
reflect the longer gestation period that this crop is subject to; the
opposite holds for coffee rehabilitation.



- 43 -
Sensitivity Analysis
Financial and Economic Rate of Return 10,/
(percent)
Oil Palm    Coffee        Coffee           Rubber
Planting    Planting  Rehabilitation    Planting
Financial
Base Case                 23          38            50              16
Price 52 higher           24          41            56              17
Price 52 lower            22          36            44              15
Price 10Z lower           21          33            38              14
Economic
Base Case                 26          43            65              18
Price 52 higher           27          46            72              19
Price 52 lower            24          41            58              17
Price 101 lower           23          38            51              16
5.11      The cultivation of pineapple for export which is largely a
medium to larga-scale operation is a profitable operation showing a
financial return to investment of 89 percent (Annex 5.02) and an economic
return of 127 percent. The anticipated 20,000 tons of fresh pineapple
exports in 1995 would provide foreign exchange earnings of US$25 million in
1990 constant terms. Feeder roads resurfacing would be contingent on road
user savings providing a 15 percent ERR, while the construction of new
feeder roads for oil palm outgrowers would be justified on agricultural
production increases and for cost savings providing a minimum of 15 percent
ERR. The overall project ERR is 23 percent as shown in Annex 5.04. A 20
percent increase in costs would lower the ERR to 19 perLent and a 20
percent reduction in benefits will drop it to 14 percent. A three-year lag
in benefits results in a 14.5 percent ERR. The project is, therefore,
sufficiently robust.
B. Environmental Effects
5.12      The proposed project would necessitate minimal land clearing in
the forest zone. Oil palm planting is envisaged to take place within a 30
km radius of the GOPDC nucleus estate on land with suitable soils that,have
previously been cultivated. The new planting and replanting of coffee
would be concentrated in areas where cocoa trees have already been
destroyed or infested with SSVD which does not attack coffee. Coffee
planting would also be encouraged on fallow agricultural land and on land
planted to coffee prior to the bush fires. No virgin forest is expected to
be brought under coffee cultivation in the proposed project. Rubber
planting will be concentrated in and around GREL's already existing vast
lo/Based on one-hectare crop budgets.



- 44 -
land concession which has also been previously cultivated. Outgrowers and
smallholders, it is expected, will grow rubber on relatively small sized
plots already under cultivation or on land covered by light regenerative
growth. In fact, the planting and rehabilitation of all three tree crops
is likely to improve the environment through an expansion of healthy tree
cover and reduced soil erosion. In the case of horticulture crops, the
need for proximity to export points would mean that pineapple cultivation
would continue to be located in and around the Accra region and on fallow
land. By strengthening the Crop Services Department of the MOA, the
project would contribute to improved cultivation practices through
promoting the use of specialized technical packages for sustainable
pineapple cultivation.
5.13      Regarding effluent from palm oil and rubber mills, provision has
already been made by GOPDC for the construction of an effluent treatment
facility near the processing mill, and in the case of rubber, a similar
treatment facility is envisaged for the new GREL factory at Citrus Farm.
Moreover, treated effluent can be a rich source of rutrients and may be
recycled back to the plantations with the added benefit of reduced
fertilizer use. Recycling treated effluent is proposed to be carried out
on a trial basis at the GOPDC plantation. Since the process does not
create waste water, ITSPMs do not pose any environmental concerns and, are,
in fact, ideal for the small producing areas they happen to serve.
C. Justification and Benefits
5.14      The policy reforms and components specifically designed to
restore efficiency in the development in the tree crops subsector long
neglected, and to create an enabling environment for the development of
horticulture crops are the principal justification of the proposed project.
Moreover, this is to be achieved through private sector initiative and the
phasing out of government involvement in productive activity, leaving
government to focus attention on the critical areas of institutional
strengthening and infrastructure development. Policy reforms in a
subsector fraught with serious distortions and government influence and
controls will not be easy. Yet, while these may be secured in the short
run, a supply response in tree crops through private initiative and
investment will be far slower, and is expected to make significant impact
gradually, and that too, only in the medium term. It is probable that
development of new nucleus estates would have yielded far quicker results
and led to a much larger impact. A large scale private sector supply
response is likely only in the medium to long term, provided a starti'is
made now. Preconditions would be a favourable macro environment, a strong
incentive framework in the agriculture sector free of distortions, strong
institutions for research and extension, an efficient input supply network,
and good village and access roads.
5.15      Given long gestation periods for tree crops and the long term
nature of institutional development, the project benefits in terms of
impact on net foreign exchange earnings are likely to be modest at best in
the short to medium term. Of far greater significance will be the
diversification of incomes and their enhancement, and increased employment



- 45 -
in rural areas. In the longer term diversification of the agriculture
sector 4tself will become more visible as anticipated increases in net
foreign exchange earnings and non-quantifiable benefits related to improved
nutrition levels and reduced soil erosion are realized. Specifically,
expected project benefits are: (i) economic efficiency with the creation of
a policy and incentive framework through reliance on market forces; (ii)
progressively greater participation by the private sector in all aspects of
production, processing and marketing of tree and horticulture crops; (iii)
technology transfer ensuing from private investment and/or contracted
private management until parastatals are privatized; (iv) good chances of
cost recovery in view of the project design as well as high capacity
utilization of agro processing mills through security of the farmers'
produce; (v) higher and diversified smallholder incomes through use of
better planting material, and better access to essential inputs and
technical advice; (vi) improvement of comparative advantage through
concentration of cultivation in optimal tree crop growing areas; (vii)
expansion of employment opportunities in tree crop and horticulture related
agro-processing and marketing; (viii) strengthened research and extension;
and (ix) improved village and feeder roads.
D. Project Risks
5.16      The main risks associated with the project are (i) possible
slowing down or reversal of the economic and trade liberalization, and
privatization, that would inevitably result in a deterioration of the
incentive framework; (ii) an unstable political climate; (iii) failure of
delivery systems to provide access by smallholders to the recommended
planting material, credit, inputs and extension, reducing the uptake of
improved technical packages, and therefore, also productivity and incomes;
and (iv) delayed improvement and development of basic infrastructure and
marketing outlets preventing smallholders selling, processing, and
marketing their output.
5.17      While the risks of deterioration in macro economic management
and political instability are real, and may be unavoidable, the risks
stated above can be mitigated through the proposed project as well as
through other upcoming projects. The latter include the Rural Finance
Project, the National Agricultural Research Project, and the Feeder Roads
Project. Privatizaticn of fertilizer supply and distribution under the
ongoing ASRP would fu2ther minimize project risks.  All of these project
initiatives with their emphasis on market determined producer prices,
strengthening rural credit institutions, improved extension, support for
agricultural research, construction and resurfacing of feeder roads, and
improved processing facilities would, in one way or another, contribute to
reduced project risks. The risks would be further minimized through the
use of existing nucleus estates for the transfer of technology critical to
tree and horticulture crop development.



- 46 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) GOPDC and GREL would avoid the use of toxic chemicals, follow
sound environmental practices, and pay particular attention to
erosion control (paras 4.25 and 4.34);
(b)  GOG would onlend IDA funds to GOPDC and GREL in cedi terms at
variable and market determined interest rates equal to the
average rates paid by primary banks for term deposits with
repayment over 30 years (paras 4.25 and 4.34);
(c) GOPDC would submit to IDA by June 30, 1992 recommendations of
studies on the separation of the nucleus estate and
smallholder/outgrower accounts, the feasibility of selling the
smallholder/outgrower loans to financial institutions, and the
impact of sales tax on palm oil consumption and marketing
patterns (para 4.26);
[d) GOPDC shall submit to IDA, not later than June 30, 1991, a
program for the management of nucleus estateloutgrower
opkrations acceptable to IDA and shall not modify such program
thereafter without prior consultation with IDA (para 4.26);
*e) GOPDC would establish the purchase price of oil palm fruits on
the basis of prevailing prices of palm oil and kernels taking
into account seasonal variations in the supply of oil palm
fruits and the prices paid by competitors (para 4.27);
(f)  MOA would by June 30, 1991 sign a satisfactory agreement with a
non-governmental organization, specifying the obligations of
both parties for the implementation of the ITSPM program (para
4.28);
(g) COCOBOD would establish in consultation with IDA, not later than
June 30, 1991, a producer pricing mechanism for coffee based on
border pricing and taking into account the processing,
transport, and marketing costs in relation to the prevailing FOB
price, it being understood that the producer price shall not be
less than 65Z of the FOB price, except as IDA shall agree (para
4.29);
(h) COCOBOD would sell its coffee planting material at declining
rates of subsidies with full cost recovery to be achieved in
1995 (para 4.29);
Ci) COCOBOD would not involve itself in input distribution in
villages and areas where registered private dealers operate
(para 4.30);



- 47 -
(j) COCOBOD would permit and encourage the purchasing, hulling and
exporting of coffee by private entrepreneurs and a review of the
progress achieved in privatizing these processes would be
carried out jointly with IDA before December 1992 (para 4.30);
(k)  GREL would submit to IDA by June 30, 1991 a rubber outgrower
project implementation plan and management program acceptable to
IDA, and IDA would be consulted prior to major modifications
being made to the plan. GREL would also finalize a satisfactory
model outgrower service and input supply agreement by December
31, 1991 (para 4.32);
(1)  GREL would purchase and sell rubber at market determined prices
(para 4.34); and
(m)  ADB would engage an experienced agronomist by December 31, 1990
to provide technical inputs to its appraisal of pineapple and
other horticultural projects (para 4.38).
6.02      The following would be conditions of disbursement against
respective components:
(a)  GOPDC would have completed a model outgrower agreement
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.25);
(b)  GOPDC would have signed with GOG a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to IDA specifying also the terms and conditions on
which GOPDC would manage the outgrower program on behalf of COG
(para 4.25);
(c)  COCOBOD would have inserted a statement in mass-circulating
Ghanaian newspapers inviting private organizations or
individuals to register with COCOBOD for the purpose of engaging
in the purchasing or hulling or export of coffee (para 4.30);
(d)  GREL would have signed with GOG a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to IDA specifying also the terms and conditions on
which GREL would manage the outgrower program on behalf of GOG
(para 4.34).
6.03      Recommendation.  Agreements having been reached on the above
conditions, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$16.5
million equivalent to the Republic of Ghana on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity.
doc.name: sar
September 5, 1990



- 48 -
Annex 2.01
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Kev Economic Indicators, 1985-92
(in percentages, unless otherwise indicated)
Actual          Prov.        Projections
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
GDP Growth Rate          5.1    5.2    4.8    6.2    6.0    4.8    5.5    5.0
GDY Growth Rate          4.2    6.6    4.6    5.9    3.5    4.0    5.3    4.8
GDY/Capita Growth Rate  1.6    3.6    1.9    2.7    0.4    0.9    2.2    1.7
Total Consumption/
Capita Growth Rate      0.1    3.6    2.0    1.6    0.9    1.2    1.4    1.2
Private Consumption/
Capita Growth Rate    -3.3    2.3    2.7    1.4    0.7    0.9    1.3    1.0
Debt Service
(US$ mn) 1/             358    384    488    609    467    336    293    279
National Savings/
GDP      21             5.4    5.5    6.0    7.2    7.4    7.7    9.3   10.2
Marginal National
Savings Rate           39.2    5.7    2.7   24.2   -8.9    0.1   20.0   15.7
Public Investment
GDP      3/ 4/          4.2    7.3    7.9    8.1    9.1   10.7   10.8   11.0
Private Investment/
GDP      4/             5.5    2.4    2.9    4.2    5.8    7.4    7.9    8.0
Private Savings/
GDP      41             5.4    3.7    3.1    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.8    5.2
Government Revenues/
GDP                    11.3   13.6   14.1   13.4   14.3   15.4   16.2   16.6
Exports/GDP             10.7   16.6   19.7   18.3   18.9   21.4   21.8   22.0
Imports/GDP             13.6   20.1   26.1   24.2   27.9   33.6   33.2   32.8
Notet
1/     Includes IN    but excludes arrears payments.
2/     Includes grants.
3/     Includes foreign aid and net lending.
4/     Staff estimates.



3
- 49 -                           Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Labour Supply in the Forest Zone
1.        It is frequently mentioned that land and labour are not limiting
factors to crop cultivation in Ghana. While this may be true in a broad
sense, it is not necessarily and always so for tree crop cultivation. As
noted earlier, land suitable and optimal for tree crop cultivation is
clearly defined and circumscribed by specific climatic and soil factors.
Population pressure has already resulted in reduced fallow and the practice
of shifting cultivation will rapidly become less common. It will only be
through the adoption of improved technical packages that the productivity
of land and labour, both of which, are, at present, low, can be raised.
2.        As compared to land, the labour constraint is less obvious.
There is no comprehensive study on the dynamics and working of Ghana's
labour market, particularly for the forest zone where, according to the
Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS), 92 percent of all rural households
are engaged in agricultural activities. The likelihood of labour being a
more likely constraining factor for agricultural purposes than land has
already been noted in the study on cocoa pricing policy in Ghana. 1/ This
is also borne out by observations made at preappraisal and appraisal, which
point to a situation in the forest zone where farmers and labour do have
alternatives to tree crop cultivation (for example subsistence farming,
gold digging in the Ashanti Region, urban employment etc.), and are not
easily available at the minimum wage. Rather than a general scarcity, it is
more the marked regional and local pockets of labour scarcity that pose the
problem; such shortages also exist for particular types of farm activities
that entail either skills and/or physical burden. Finally, labour shortage
is less evident for the oil palm and rubber nucleus estates, that have
successfully supplemented the wage with food obtained under the World Food
Programme. 2/
1/ An Analytical Review of Ghana's Cocoa Pricing Policy with
Recommendations of Future Policy Formulation, February 1989, op.cit.
2/ The impact of continued food aid under the World Food Programme on the
incentives for subsistence farming, and by way of any distorting effect in
the labour market, is not known.



-50-                           Page 2 of 3
3.        It is fairly common in the forest zone for a smallholder to have
a subsistence farm which is treated by him as priority when it comes to the
allocation of his time and resources. During the establishment phase, and
peak periods in the crop cycle, the smallholder is almost compelled to hire
labour for a wide range of essential tasks. In the case of tree crops, many
of these tasks require skills, can be physically taxing, and need to be
carried out throughout the year. Even for a tree crop like coffee which is
harvested only once a year, unlike oil palm and rubber which yield a
harvest all year round, the man days of labour required during the year can
be significant. The need for hired labour by the smallholder is further
exacerbated by his drive for expanding his farmholding. The prevailing land
tenure system sanctions expansion in holdings, provided the land in
question has some trees already established upon it, regardless of the
suitability of land to the tree crop planted. The total farmholding of the
smallholder can, thus, easily exceed his capacity to manage the larger
hectarage with his own resources.
4.        The ownership and cultivation of multiple farms by smallholders,
therefore, places an substantial and inordinate demand on the time of the
relatively small rural household averaging 5.5 individuals. The Cocoa
Pricing study estimates the use of family and permanent labour per farm at
2.2 adult persons (child labour being valued at half adult labour) with an
average of 238 days worked per year. Under these circumstances, the small
family size together with the cost of labour, clearly place a limit on the
size of a farmholding that can be effectively managed by an average farm
household. 3/ Nevertheless, in order to diversify h:s production and
strengthen his cash flow, and to obtain permanent land tenure, the small
farmer may decide, provided returns are favourable, to include some tree
crops on a small scale.
5.        Wages can vary widely depending on the location and employment
activity in question. With pressure on the wage, the farmer, especially the
small tree crop farmer, in efforts to conserve his cash flow for basic wage
goods and essential farm inputs, in spite of some diversification, is often
forced to compromise on labour use as dictated by the crop technology in
3/ The traditional custom of 'nnoboa', where labour for farm operations is
exchanged by neighbouring farm families for similar time from the farmer on
another occasion, is still popular. However, migration to urban and other
rural areas, attractive off-farm employment opportunities and increased
enrollment in schools, may, with time, render it a less reliable source of
farm labour.



- 51 -                           Annex 3. .
Page 3 of 3
question. 4/ During periods of peak demand for labour, when food crop
cultivation competes with that of tree crops, the small farmer is forced to
pay a higher wage, often beyond his means, compared to the relatively well
to do farmer on the large plantations and estates. These latter can more
easily guarantee regular employment through a lower wage frequently
supplemented by food, and always embodying a wide range of benefits, as
required by the current labour legislation; these amount to double the
basic wage. Given the returns per man day under existing input output
coefficients of the specific tree crop technology, the farmer invariably
prefers and chooses to invest his financial resources and family and hired
labour time in his subsistence farm. With the relatively heavy labour
requirements for tree crops, which would be higher still at an improved
level of technology, at current prices and levels of profitability the
probability of a smallholder, not attached to an estate or large
plantation, undertaking tree crop cultivation on a commercial basis becomes
slim. Additional difficulties associated with the cost of obtaining credit
for the establishment of a gestation crop, and marketing the output under
poor infrastructure conditions, reduce his net returns further, and act as
a major disincentive to tree crop cultivation.
AF4AG
November 2, 1989
4/ The distribution of household expenditure was examined by the GLSS
study. Preliminary results had shown that, in the forest zone, 33 percent
of annual household expenditure was spent on purchase of food, 37 percent
on non-food items and the remaining 30 percent accounted for by home
produced food. The First Year Report, covering the period September 1987-
October 1988, gave the following revised figures: 42 percent for food
purchase, 30 percent for non-food items and 28 percent for home produced
goods.



- 52 -                            Annex 3.02
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
,AGRICULTURAL DIVERSi!ICATION PROJECT
Constraints and Potential of Oil Palm, Coffee and Rubber
Oil Palm
1.        Supply and Demand for Palm Oil.  As a cooking oil, palm oil,
especially in its unrefined form, is a staple and an essential ingredient
in ethnic cuisine. Cultivation of oil palm is so important that, together
with the cultivation of cassava, it can be said to be synonymous with the
term food security in its most basic sense as far as the traditional farm
family in southern Ghana is concerned. Given such cultural significance,
oil palm is widely grown, and the fruit processed at the village level for
home consumption and frequently also for sale. Of the total supply of
edible oils, palm oil accounts for at least 75 percent, palm kernel oil and
shea butter 7.5 percent each, and groundnut oil and coconut oil about 4.5
percent each. Ghana's present per capita consumption level of edible oils
is said to be less than half of the recommended nutritional levels. Besides
its importance for cooking, palm oil is also used for the manufacture of
toilet soap and detergents; oil from the palm kernel, too, is edible when
processed, but it is more commonly used for soap manufacture, and the
residual kernel cake can be fed to animals.
2.    There are no reliable estimates of either the demand or supply of
palm oil in Ghana. The Task Force Report on the Development of the Oil
Palm Industry in Ghana, completed under the auspices of the Ministry of
Agriculture in 1987, estimated a rise in the deficit in the supply of palm
oil from 3.500 tons in 1995 to about 57,700 tons in year 2007 without the
project. Bank staff estimates based on modified assumptions on population
growth and tne per capita consumption of palm oil show deficits of 11,000,
18,000 and 63,000 tons in 1995, 2000 and 2007, respectively. See Annex
3.03 for details on demand projections and the resulting deficit under
three different scenarios.
3.        Productivity and Potential.  Next to cocoa, which covers
slightly more than one million hectares, oil palm is the most important
tree crop in Ghana; the wild palm sector, which had, at one time, been
important at the village level, has gradually given way to cultivated oil
palm, estimated to be 100,000 hectares in area.   Smallholders and nucleus
estate outgrowers account for 74 percent of total planted area and about 65



- 53 -                            Annex 3.02
Page 2 of 11
percent of production 1/. Of the remaining area, four major estates
account for 15 percent, and medium sized plantations 11 percent.
Productivity on smallholdings, other than those of nucleus estates and
outgrower farms, is generally low. Holdings ranging from 2. 10 hectares,
are developed manually, and are usually, intercropped with maize and
plantain in the first two years. The crop technology is traditional with
fertilizer and chemicals for control of weeds, pests and disease applied
only when obtained on credit, as in the case of outgrower schemes.
Planting density is seldom maintained at the recommended 143 palms per
hectare and, yields are low at around 2.0 to 2.5 tons Fresh Fruit Bunch
(FFB) per hectare. Even the maximum of 5.5 tons that can be attained on
these holdings, is far less than the potential of 10 tons FFB possible in
locations more suitable and productive. Yields on medium sized plantations
are about 6-7 tons FFB per hectare. Productivity, on the nucleus estates
and other well managed plantations, in contrast, is higher, often reaching
up to 11 tons FFB per hectare. In general, however, yields are low
compared to countries in East Asia, and even to those that obtain in some
West African Francophone countries. Plantation oil palm fruit yields in
Malaysia range between 20-25 tons FFB per hectare compared to Ghana's 9-12
tons. Apart frcm the technical constraints that prevent the realization of
comparable high yields made possible by the climate and soil conditions
unique to the East Asian countries, Ghana is faced with the problems of
inefficient cost-plus producer pricing and ineffective and weak
institutions for extension, credit and input supply to serve the oil palm
subsector. These prevent effective and optimal use of existing physical
resources to obtain higher yields.
4.        Large variations in productivity also exist in the processing of
the FFB. Smallholders generally get their fruit processed locally in
artisan village mills consisting generally of a hand press. Oil extraction
usually ranges between 8-11 percent of FFB weight, though some improved
village mills can give up to 15 percent extraction. In the absence of
access to processing facilities, many smallholders even process the fruit
themselves using traditional methods with poor results. Far better
extraction rates of 20-21 percent obtain at the private medium scale
industrial mills (1 to 3 tons FFB/hour), and 22 percent at the large scale
industrial mills (15 to 30 tonis FFB/hour) generally attached to the nucleus
estates.
5.        Medium and Large Sized Mills.  These are accessible only to
smallholders or outgrowers located in the vicinity of a nucleus estate or
such a mill. Normally, because of the smallholder's low output and high
transport costs, he is often forced to sell his FFB to the nearest
purchaser at the farmgate, usually at a discount price. 'Market women' play
an important role in collecting the smallholder FFB at the farmgate,
getting it processed at small village mills, and selling it in the local
1/ Nucleus estates by agreement with outgrowers provide extension advice,
and inputs on credit in exchange for a guaranteed supply of oil palm fruit
for their processing mills. This arrangement also enables them to deduct
credit repayments at source.



- 54 -                             Annex 3.02
Page 3 of 11
and neighbouring markets. Their ability to organise efficient transport
for this entire process is an important feature of the system. Less than 40
percent of the FFB produced is believed to be processed in efficient mills.
The efficiency of the private medium sized mills has deteriorated because
of machinery in need of replacement or rehabilitation, lack of foreign
exchange for spare parts, and shortages of FFB because of poor location or
an overestimate of potential supply from plantations and smallholdings.
6.        The large processing mills attached to the nucleus estates are,
on the other hand, comparatively well operated but, given the high overhead
costs, must maintain high capacity utilization and standards of efficiency.
The ability of the nucleus estates to enter into contracts with private
management firms for professional management of the estate, which may also
include a modern oil processing facility, allows for greater efficiency;
economies of scale, too, are significant to their higher productivity.
Proximity to smallholders gives the estates the further advantage of
reduced collection costs of the FFB as well as its timely collection to
prevent quality deterioration. Other benefits, no less important, include
the ability to more fully utilize installed capacity through the regular
supply of FFB obtained by providing smallholders with credit, essential
farm inputs, and extension advice.
7.        Constraints to Economic Efficiency.  In the palm oil subsector,
lack of competition is the main obstacle to the realization of the
potential for increased productivity at the farm and mill levels. This is
the outcome of pricing and trade policies that protect the parastatals, and
institutional and infrastructure weaknesses that, in effect, exclude a
large number of smallholders from competition and efficiency associated
with a market-oriented economy. The government's influence in the industry
is pervasive through its substantial ownership of the large estates, and
its 55 percent ownership of Lever Brothers Ghana, manufacturer of edible
oil, including refined oil, margarine and bakery fat, and soaps and
detergents. It is the major bulk consumer of oil produced by industrial
mills 2/. The constraints in the subsector may be grouped under the three
broad heads of inefficient price determination, institutional weakness, and
poor infrastructure.
8.        Inefficient Price Determination.  The palm oil industry is
highly protected through a mechanism of price determination by the large
parastatals for palm oil, and for the FFB produced by smallholders and
outgrowers attached to nucleus estates. Both prices are fixed using the
cost-plus method which gives considerable protection to producers and
manufacturers from international competition. In so doing, it leads to
distortions in relative factor prices and perpetuates the misallocation of
scarce resources. The levels of the wholesale price of palm oil are
determined through discussions every six months between Lever Brothers and
2/ The four large estates, Benso Oil Palm (BOPP), the IDA assisted Ghana
Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPDC), the EEC assisted Twifo Oil Palm
Plantation (TOPP) and National Oil Palm Limited (NOPL) are well established
parastatals; in the case of BOPP, Unilever is the predominant shareholder,
but government has effective majority shareholding.



- 55 -                             Annex 3.02
Page 4 of 11
the principal palm oil parastatals. The FFB price is fixed, in turn, on
the basis of periodic meetings between the palm oil parastatals and the FFB
producers, that is mainly the nucleus smallholders and outgrowers. The
price of FFB for non-nucleus outgrowers and smallholders, however, is
competitive and is determined usually by prevailing market conditions in
the nearest village. Government controlled plantationstmills account for
35 percent of the country's production of palm oil and virtually all of
this is traded in the formal sector; however, village level prices of palm
oil are not completely free of influence from the prices set in the formal
sector. The price fixing deprives the consumer of the lower prices of
edible oil and soap products that would result from price liberalization
and/or imports. It also leads to price inflexibility, and FFB producers
supplying nucleus estates obtain the same price regardless of whether there
is a shortage or over-supply of FFB. Consumer welfare is compromised
through artificially high prices and through restriction of demand due to
higher prices. The demand restraint furthers the protection of all
producers in the industry, both the efficient who, with further trade
liberalizption, would need protection only in the event of dumping and/or
sharply reduced worli prices, and that t3o, on a declining basis as
domestic efficiency increases, and the inefficient, who should not continue
to be in operation anyway.
9.        The large differential between the auction and bureau rates for
foreign exchange is another factor that compromises economic efficiency.
The late July price for crude palm oil of US$ 330 per ton cif Rotterdam
converted to a border price of approximately Cedis 147,000 at the auction
rate of Cedi 270 to the US dollar. The fixed domestic price of Cedis
155,000 in force at the time was thus slightly higher. At the bureau rate
of Cedis 350, however, the domestic price would be 21 percent lower clearly
making domestic palm oil more competitive as an import substitute. A
further distortion is that large producers pay sales tax on sales of oil to
non-industrial consumers, unlike their competitors in the informal sector
such as 'market women' and village millers who do not do so. The incidence
of the sales tax appears inequitable and acts as a further restriction on
competition by fragmenting the market and reducing marketing channels for
the large producers resulting in their overdependence on one large
industrial buyer.
10.       Institutional Weakness.  Profitability at the farm level is
adversely affected by institutional factors in the areas of input supply,
extension and research. The major sources of selected Tenera oil palm
germinated seeds are the Oil Palm Research Center (OPRC), renamed the Oil
Palm Research Institute (OPRI), and imported seeds, preferred by the
plantations. The Crop Services Department (CSD) of the MOA has been unable
to provide any significant number of ready-to-plant seedlings due to poorly
developed nurseries. The few growers who prefer to maintain their own
nurseries, do not make a proper selection of seeds and also do not provide
the necessary inputs and attention to produce good healthy seedlings.
Except for the smallholders in the catchment areas around the large
plantations, and those in the vicinity of the OPRI, smallholders have scant
access to farm inputs and oil palm seedlings, especially quality seedlings.
Similarly, smallholders located at remote distances from the large
plantations and nucleus estates, and from OPRI which also provides some



- 56 -                             Annex 3.02
Page 5 of 11
extension services, are deprived of the benefits of the technical advice
critical to increases in yields. The HOA's extension service has little
experience and knowledge of tree crop cultivation. Research in oil palm
carried out by OPRI, and assisted by Bank funding, has been less than
satisfactory and is fraught by slow development of the research programme,
poor maintenance and conduct of research trials, and lack of proper
management of the research facilities at Kusi.
11.       Poor Infrastructure.  Oil palm smallholders are usually forced
to travel long distances on poor feeder roads, if these at all exist, to
sell their output and purchase inputs. They are, thereby, in effect,
compelled to forego use of the prescribed inputs, to be satisfied with poor
yields, and to sell the output at whatever price is obtainable at the
farmgate. Lack of competition for the smallholder's FFB in terms of only a
very limited number of purchasers, due, in large part, to lack of good
village roads, thus, leads to poor prices at the farm-gate. This is
frequently the plight of the smallholder without easy access to oil
processing facilities and is a major disincentive to Rizeable increases in
investment and production by him.
Coffee
12.       Prolonged Neglect.  The cultivation of coffee has been seriously
neglected over a prolonged period of two decades. While COCOBOD has the
legal monopoly over domestic coffee purchase and marketing, a number of
local processors manage to purchase coffee and process it for the domestic
market. Production of coffee beans has been low, currently 800 tons, and
significar.tly below the peak of 6,720 tons attained in 1967/68. The worst
year was 1983184 when, following the drought of 1982-83, production was
only 123 tons. Poor output performance and failure of Ghana to meet its
quota of 3,470 tons per year under the International Coffee Agreement,
currently inoperative through failure to renegotiate quotas, led to its
being reduced to 2,276 tone in 1987; coffee exports average about 80
percent of total production. Because of greater interest in cocoa due to
improved incentives and producer prices, cocoa cultivation has come to be
preferred to coffee cultivation, which is far more labour and skill
intensive, and the producer price for which, until very recently, was
grossly inadequate. Coffee farms are scattered through much of the high
forest zone with the age of most trees ranging between 30 and 45 years
considered a normal productive age span for the coffee tree. According to
a country-wide survey, the area under coffee cultivation over the period
1970-80 was 13,346 hectares. Sample surveys taken in 1985, after the bush
fires of 1982-83, revealed that of this amount only 3,174 hectares remained
under cultivation; as much as 76 percent are believed to bave been
destroyed by the bush fires. In 1986/87, 32 percent of the cultivated area
was mature and 67 percent not bearing at all.
13.       Low Yields.  Coffee cultivation is usually a residual activity
by smallholders, who may also cultivate a parcel of oil palm, and one of
foodcrops; however, in view of better incentives for cocoa in the past, and
also because it is much simpler to cultivate, farmers have grown cocoa on
their best lands. Little information is available on smallholder yields,
but they are known to be low at 100-180 kg per hectare on smallholder



- 57 -                            Annex 3.02
Page 6 of 11
farms. This compares with robusta yields of 270 and 350 kg per hectare for
the traditional smallholder in the Ivory Coast and Cameroon respectively.
The corresponding yields for an 'average clonal smallholder' in the Ivory
Coast is 648 kg per hectare, and for a *improved smallholder' in Cameroon
850 kg per hectare. Coffee farms in Ghana usually average one hectare in
size, although 10 hectare farms are not uncommon. Except for the
application of insecticide for protection against berry borers at harvest.
fertilizer and other chemicals are not applied to coffee trees, and the
seeds used are of low quality. The essential requirement that trees be
coppiced and regularly pruned in accordance with specified methods is
either ignored or not done correctly. Harvesting, too, is frequently
carried out by stripping the berries off the branch, rather than through
the careful hand picking of berries as they ripen. Poor husbandry overall,
together with the planting of low quality coffee seedlings at an
inappropriate spacing leads to low yields.
14.       The Ghana Cocoa Board also cultivates about 3,000 hectares of
coffee on 19 of its 40 plantations managed by COCOBOD Plantations Ltd.
(CPL), established in 1976 31. The tree stock on most of the COCOBOD
plantations is, by and large, low yielding because of the initial use of
unselected seed, yet yields are better on these than on smallholder farms
and may approach 600 kg per hectare due to better husbandry practices and
access to essential inputs. Efforts are now being made by COCOBOD to
divest itself of these plantations.
15.       Coffee processing or hulling yields are significantly below
potential. Until recently, farmers were able to choose between private
hullers and the Produce Buying Company (PBC), a subsidiary of COCOBOD, that
handles hulling and internal marketing; PBC is involved in the internal
marketing of cocoa, coffee, and shea nuts. At PBC hulling centers, the
percentage of cleaned and picked hulled coffee is about 45 percent of
unhulled coffee, while 50 would be more normal. This is partly due to low
capacity utilization on account of insufficient output of coffee cherries
(harvested coffee berries that have been dried), and hulling machinery that
requires overhauling, repair and/or replacement. COCOBOD policy stipulates
that all unhulled coffee be sold to the PBC at a producer price set by
COCOBOD on the basis of the cost-plus approach.
16.       The coffee beans produced in Ghana are of medium quality.
Quality has suffered on account of long neglect of the tree stock, COCOBOD
policy to purchase only unhulled coffee and lack of extension advice.
Compared to other robustas sold on the export market, Ghanaian robusta is
discounted by 10 percent. Robusta coffee is usually dry processed, and can
be of high quality, provided the dried unhulled coffee is of good quality.
At present, most of Ghana's production is graded 'Type 2' that is, fair
average quality, the other two qualities being 'Type 1' for coffee of
superior quality, and 'Type 3' for coffee of substandard quality. A
proposal is now being prepared by the Produce Inspection Division (PID) of
COCOBOD to introduce a set of more effective grading procedures. Unlike
3/ An additional 2,000 hectares were planted after the 1983 bush fires.



- 58 -                             Annex 3.02
Page 7 of 11
the case of arabica where flavour and other taste characteristics are most
important, in robusta it is uniformity and an absence of defective beans
that is paramount in determining the quality and ultimate price paid for
the coffee exported.
17.       Potential for Yield Increases.  At the Cocoa Research Institute
of Ghana (CRIG), yields under research conditions are estimated at 1,200-
1,700 kg per hectare. With rehabilitation and improved management,
smallholder yields can increase to 400-500 kg per hectare, and with new
planting to 700-1,000 kg per hectare. In spite of the potential for
substantial yield increases, coffee is likely to remain confined to areas
where cocoa has been infected by the Swollen Shoot Virus Disease to which
coffee is not susceptible, unless incentives and extension services for
coffee continue to improve significantly relative to cocoa.
18.       Constraints.  Expansion of coffee as a foreign exchange earner
is constrained by government's policy on pricing, processing and marketing,
by a shortage of high yielding planting material, by lack of extension
advice, by weak inspection, and by the poor condition of feeder and access
roads in coffee growing areas as well as inadequate storage facilities.
For purposes of discussion these constraints may be grouped under policy
constraints, institutional constraints, and inadequate and poor
infrastructure.
19.       Policy constraints continue to act as a major disincentive to
increased coffee cultivation and have to do with inefficient pricing,
monopoly on processing, and monopoly on marketing: (a) the first is pricing
policy whereby prices are set by COCOBOD using the inefficient cost-plus
method. Until very recently, the price of coffee was below 40 percent of
FOB value making it uncompetitive especially with cocoa with which it
competes for land, labour and inputs in the same main geographical area.
Very recently it was raised to 48 percent of FOB for the 1989/90 season was
announced. Even though this is a significant and positive step, it falls
far short of abandoning the cost-plus approach as a method of setting price
and completely liberalizing the price of coffee; (b) a second constraint is
COCOBOD's monopoly on processing. The policy to purchase unhulled coffee
has proved to be detrimental not only to the volume of production but also
to the quality of coffee produced and exported. It is, thus, a strong
disincentive to production. By the PBC purchasing only unhulled coffee,
the farmer is discouraged from giving attention to the production of
quality coffee beans. Moreover, PBC rather than the farmer takes on an
additional cost burden for COCOBOD, which already suffers from over
staffing and excessive costs on its coffee operations. Besides the 45
percent margin retained by PBC between unhulled and hulled coffee, the
coffee price leaves many farmers dissatisfied as it appears to be
disproportionate in terms of overall production costs. The result of PBC
buying only unhulled coffee is the complete elimination of competitive
pricing and economic efficiency that would ensue with the operation of
relatively small and numerous private hulling centers located around
smallholder coffee farms, and the inevitable multiplier effects on
employment and value added; and (c) finally, is the constraint imposed by
government's monopoly in coffee export marketing. This policy has had
serious negative consequences on economic efficiency in coffee production
I



- 59 -                             Annex 3.02
Page 8 of 11
and export. With the export of coffee ruled out by government's monopoly,
there is no opportunity for the industry to reestablish itself on the sound
principle of market determined efficiency that could come about through
allowing the private sector to export. In the Cameroon, there are large
numbers of small village level processing centers. Moreover. in both the
Ivory Coast and Cameroon where coffee is an important source of government
revenue, private collection, processing and storage is allowed, and
marketing assigned to exporters. In East African countries where arabica
is more commonly produced, the private sector is allowed even greater
freedom in coffee production, processing and marketing. A shift in this
direction, accompanied by price liberalization and the lifting of COCOBOD's
monopoly on hulling, would inevitably lead to increased production and
close attention to quality, and could provide an incentive to produce good
quality robusta that could fetch Ghana a premium instead of the current 10
percent discount on the international market.
20.       Institutional constraints are most prominent in the areas of
coffee research, extension, input supply and credit. Research and
extension are the respective responsibility of the Cocoa Services Division
(CSD) and CRIG, both of which come under the purview of COCOBOD. While
cocoa has been the obvious focus of attention for these institutions in
recent years, CRIG has continued to press ahead with programmes for coffee
research, inspite of serious funding constraints. On the extension side,
though some CSD staff are very well versed in coffee extension, by and
large, CSD lacks a strong team of extension officers trained in coffee
extension, the majority of its staff having been trained in cocoa
extension. Yet, CSD has had to undertake the difficult task of advising
farmers on the cultivation of a telatively complex crop with a history of
unrenumerative producer prices. Input supply, too, is a serious problem,
particularly in remote areas, where it is difficult to find hand-operated
sprayers, insecticide, and pruning saws, which, even when available, are
often of the wrong specification. Most serious, however, is the difficulty
of obtaining clonal cuttings that are known to significantly improve
yields; these are now increasingly being produced by CRIG and the CSD. As
regards credit, at the present levels of production and weak producer
incentives, few farmers demand credit for coffee cultivation.  With an
improvement in incentives, however, the demand for credit both from
farmers, and private hullers and exporters, assuming that current
restrictions on private hulling and export are removed, is expected to
become important. Finally, poor facilities for inspection of coffee beans
and a shortage of adequately trained coffee inspectors is a serious
constraint that allows low quality beans to pass for export and, in the
process, reducing the chance for Ghanaian exports to earn a premium.
21.       Inadequate and poor infrastructure in coffee growing areas have
aggravated marketing difficulties of farmers located at long distances from
PBC hulling centers. The delay in selling the coffee cherries, which are
frequently stored by the farmer on the ground rather than on wooden crates,
leads to a deterioration in their quality, and can seriously impinge upon
the farmer's cash flow. It similarly compounds the problems of farmers
with few or no marketing options when it comes to the purchase of inputs,
again with adverse repercussions on their cash flow, stemming either
through non-use of essential inputs and resulting poor yields and/or



- 60 -                             Annex 3.02
Page 9 of 11
inflated prices for the inputs. The upgrading of 3,000 km of feeder roads
under the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project is also expected to benefit the
coffee growing areas and will consequently contribute to reducing some of
these constraints.
Rubber
22.       Cessation of New Planting.  Rubber was introduced to Ghana
exactly a century ago, but has been neglected mainly due to low producer
prices. A 1959 survey showed that the total area of 3,400 hectares under
rubber in Ghana was owned by the private sector. Between 1960 and 1980,
about 10,140 hectares were planted under government sponsorship with some
of the best available clones from the Far East; no new planting of rubber
is known to have taken place since. Allowing for losses to bush fires in
the early 1980s, the present area under rubber is estimated at about 11,600
hectares. Of this, the government owned Ghana Rubber Estates Limited
(GREL), currently being operated under a private French management
contract, accounts for about 70 percent, that is, about 8,000 hectares,
smallholders 25 percent, and the remainder by the government owned State
Farms, presently up for divestiture. Among the smallholdings, 80 percent
are owned by cooperative societies or farmers' associations, many of which
have been inactive until recently. Ghana's rubber tree stock is fairly old
with only 25 percent of the stock under 20 years, and most of this belongs
to GREL; there is no immature acreage.
23.       Supply and Demand.  Because of poor incentives associated with
low prices and insecure marketing outlets, Ghana's rubber tree stock has
been considerably underexploited in the past, with at least 22 plantations
having beer abandoned. Some of it, therefore, still has the potential for
further production. Rubber production peaked in 1978179 at about 4,000
tons, this compares with 2,330 tons produced in 1987, and 60 percent of
which was exported. Domestic demand for rubber is mainly from the Bonsa
Tyre Company, owned by the government and now under rehabilitation; its
current annual consumption of 1,000 tons per annum is expected to treble or
even increase four fold once its rehabilitation is completed. Otherwise,
the domestic demand for rubber is not expected to increase substantially in
the short term and it is expected that most of Ghana's rubber will be
exported with little impact on the world market, the current share being
less than 0.04 percent.
24.       Productivity and Potential.  Private rubber farms average about
15 hectares in size. With the use of little known and variable planting
material, smallholder yields are low at about 300-400 kg per hectare. In
contrast, yields on GREL plantations range between 900-1000 kg per hectare;
this compares with the 1,500-2,000 kg per hectare yields on well maintained
plantations in the Cote d'Ivoire. Similar high yields are possible for
Ghana from fully mature trees provided the right clones are properly
planted and maintained. So far, no recently developed higher yielding
varieties have been obtained from Malaysia and Cote d'Ivoire. Yields on
smallholdings, with rehabilitation, could increase to 400-600 kg per
hectare, and could almost double with replanting.



I  3.    
- 61 -                         Page 10 of 11
25.       Recent Performance.  In response to improved rubber prices as a
result of the progressive devaluation, and more importantly the recent
liberalization of the price of rubber by government, activity in the
subsector has picked up. In fact, in the Western Region, where most of the
rubber farms are located, 80 percent are being rehabilitated. A total of
8,000 hectares of the GREL plantations is currently also undergoing
rehabilitation with assistance from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE). However, on many farms, rubber trees which are at
present considered productive are being excessively exploited, also in
response to the improved exchange rate: this is to the detriment of future
production and must be discouraged. Rehabilitation and exploitation of the
smallholder farmsicooperatives is being undertaken under contract
arrangements whereby the contractor who is frequently an exporter or has
business links with an exporter, organizes the entire production process,
provides the credit, and pays the smallholder after deducting his costs and
margins. The contractors and traders obtain a guaranteed supply of output
and are able to extract monopsonistic profits through low contracted prices
and stiff terms of lending and loan repayment. The low monopsonistic price
allows for no price differential for the various grades and quality. This
results in the low quality of sheet rubber produced, usually of grades RSS3
or RSS4 or lower. The only company that produces technically specified
rubber for export is GREL. Having reached full capacity, it is now being
rehabilitated and expanding productive capacity from the present 3-4 tons
per day to 16 tons per day with assistance from the CCCE. GREL had till now
produced a rubber grade equivalent of TSR 20, for which government had
concluded a barter trade agreement with Rumania. GREL's future production,
however, will be mainly of higher grade rubber, that is, TSR 10 and 5,
which it will be able to export at the prevailing international price.
26.       Constraints to Expansion:  The gravest problem in the rubber
subsector is the prevalence of an environment that severely inhibits new
planting and replanting by the private sector. New planting is critical to
Ghana since on the one hand, the gestation period for rubber is at least
seven years, and on the other, the remaining untapped bark cannot be
expected to yield beyond 10 years, and possibly less if the slaughter
tapping of trees continues. The extremely long gestation period of about
seven years combined with a serious lack of access to term and working
capital, absence of extension and research facilities, poor infrastructure
and uncompetitive pricing act as impediments to any risk taking that the
recent liberalization of rubber price may have encouraged.
27.       Policy Related Constraints.  Since the price of rubber was
recently liberalized, the main policy constraint existing at present is the
uncertainty that exporters will be allowed to operate efficiently as
commercial entities through freedom to determine their own markets for
output in accordance with free market principles. The apprehension stems
from government to government barter trade agreements that have from time
to time restricted this freedom and there is no evidence that this will not
take place in future. This policy, if continued, will be a major deterrent
to any new planting of rubber on a large scale.
28.       Lack of institutional support in the areas of extension,
research, input supply and credit is a strong disincentive to rubber



- 62 -                         Page 11 of 11
cultivation and rehabilitation, and also to the production of quality
rubber. The MOA extension service, with little knowledge of rubber, is
unable to advise smallholders on the intricacies of cultivating and tapping
rubber. The Aiyinasi Research Station, which has been the main station for
rubber research since the 1960s is no longer active in field research.
Input supply, too, especially that of processing chemicals and tapping
equipment, appears to be beyond the physical and financial reach of many
smallholders. Lack of term credit acts as a major constraint to rubber
cultivation, given that the first harvest can be expected not earlier than
six years of investment and intensive maintenance. Then there is the need
for a reliable and steady supply of skilled tappers throughout the year
once the trees start yielding. The shortage of tappers is compounded by
their being attracted to the GREL plantations by food aid imported under
the World Food Programme.
29.   Absence of effective infrastructure has a direct bearing through
severely reduced marketing outlets for the widely dispersed and relatively
small smallholder output of rubber. This is compounded by the generally
poor condition of access roads. Delays in marketing reduce quality since
high cost techniques to preserve rubber latex are obviously out of reach of
the smallholders. Finally, the export of rubber, too, is hampered by lack
of adequate transport and port facilities at Takoradi, and is aggravated by
a severe shortage of containers.
AF4AG
November 2, 1989



- 63 -                           Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICTION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis on the Demand for Palm Oil
Introduction
1.        The size of the projected deficit in palm oil has an obvious and
direct bearing on government's future strategy in the oil palm sector in
Ghana. A sensitivity analysis on the demand for palm oil for the next two
decades has been carried out using various scenarios of population growth
and revised per capita consumption levels of vegetable oils. 1/ It is
assumed that over the period being considered no decline in per capita
income in real terms will take place. Population increase is based on the
most recent Bank estimates and projections of population growth; 2! and per
capita consumption of edible oil is taken at 5.5 kg per capita, the level
which is believed to have prevailed in 1976, and that of the oil equivalent
of soap products at 3.5 kg. These population and per capita consumption
levels differ from the assumptions of the 1987 Report of the Task Force on
the Development of Oil Palm Industry in Ghana, which took a lower level of
population growth of 2.5 percent per annum, and per capita consumption of
edible oils and soaps in 1988 at 4.0 kg and 3.1 kg per capita,
respectively.
Assumptions
2.        Population.  The Bank's latest projections of population growth
are based on a scenario analysis. Assuming that the population of Ghana
was 12.7 million in 1985, and given that population is growing at 3.3
percent per annum, the 1989 population is estimated at 14.5 million. 3/
The size of Ghana's population in year 2020 is projected to range anywhere
1/ Vegetable oils include edible oils as well as oil used for the
manufacture of toilet and laundry soap.
2/ Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review, World Bank, opn.cit.
3/ According to the '1984 Population Census of Ghana, Preliminary Report,"
op. cit., the country's population in 1984 was estimated 12.2 million, and
its growth at 2.6 percent per annum on average between 1970 and 1984. This
would give a figure of 12.5 million using 2.6 percent growth and about 12.7
million if growth is assumed at 3.3 percent per year.



- 64 -                            Annex 3.03
Page 2 of 4
from 25.4 million to 44.6 million depending on which of the Bank's three
scenarios is considered. All three scenarios assume population growth to
continue at 3.3 percent per year over the period 1985 and 2000, and then to
follow any of three alternative growth paths between the years 2000 and
2020.
Scenario 1 is the 'no fertility decline' scenario, with population
accelerating to 3.7 percent between 2000 and 2020;
Scenario 2 is the "gradual fertility decline' scenario, with
population growth declining to 2.8 percent between 2000 and 2020; and
Scenario 3 is the nrapid fertility decline" scenario, where
population growth declines to 2.7 percent between 2000 and 2020,
slightly lower than that given by the second scenar.o.
3.        Per Capita Consumption of Edible Oils and Soap Products.  Iin
the absence of any comprehensive studies of per capita consumption levels
of vegetable oils in Ghana, and given the overall unreliability of data for
demand and supply of palm oil in the country as a whole, per capita
consumption levels have been assumed taking estimates given in the 1987
Report of the Task Force on the Development of Oil Palm Industry in Ghana
as the base. The Report assumed 4.0 kg annual per capita consumption of
edible oils and 3.1 kg per capita annual consumption of toilet and laundry
soap for the year 1987. These consumption levels appear to be low,
especially that of edible oil which was as high as 5.5 kg per capita in
1976. It is possible that in the early 1980s when Ghana's economy was weak
and faltering and the per capita income levels under pressure, that the per
capita consumption levels were lower. Now, however, with recovery and some
growth, it is more realistic to assume some improvement in the per capita
consumption levels of both. Thus, it is assumed that at present the annual
per capita consumption of edible oils is 5.0 kg and that of the oil
equivalent of toilet and laundry soap 3.3 kg. Finally, for the sake of
simplicity, and given no sound estimates of the income elasticities of
demand for edible oils and soap, the analysis links changes in per capita
consumption levels, due to changes in standards of living, with the
assumptions that underlie the Bank's scenario analysis for population
projections stated above; gradual changes have been used. These changes
are assumed as follows:
(a) under the first scenario, it is likely that the population
growth rate accelerating starting year 2000, and the subsequent
population expansion, will not be able to sustain the higher
levels of annual per capita consumption of edible oils and soap;
these are then assumed to decline over the period 1989 through
2010 by about 6.0 percent and 3.0 percent, respectively;
(b) under the second scenario, with some control over the population
growth rate beyond year 2000, an approximate 11 percent increase
in the per capita consumption of edible oils and soap taken
together is assumed over the period 1989 through 2000; and



- 65 -                            Annex 3.03
Page 3 of 4
(c) under the third scenario, it is assumed that a more improved
decline in the population growth rate than under the second
scenario, will enable a larger Increase of about 13 percent in
the per capita consumption of both edible oils and soap over the
period 1989 through year 2000.
The increases in per capita consumption of vegetable oils in the
sensitivity analysis are far more conservative and less optimistic than the
official figures given in the Task Force Report. The Report assumed a 27
percent increase in such consumption between 1987 and 1997, and an almost
44 percent over the two decades between 1987 and 2007.
Results of the Sensitivity Analysis on the Palm Oil Deficit
4.        The sensitivity analysis under various scenarios indicates a an
almost 3.5 fold increase in deficit over the two decades 1990-2010 in the
first scenario, and a 4 fold and 4.1 fold increase, respectively, in
scenarios two and three.  Regardless of which scenario is assumed, the
deficit in palm oil based on this sensitivity analysis differs from the
official estimate of 57,700 tons in year 2007. This is due mainly to
higher population growth and per capita consumption levels used in the
analysis. Details of the analysis by scenario is given in Tables 4.02.1
through 4.02.3. Given below are sunmmary results by scenario and comparison
with the deficit as estimated by the official Task Force study, the end
year of which
PALM OIL DEFICIT
Results of Scenario Analysis
(thoasands of tons)
Estd.       Deficit        Deficit       Deficit        Deficit
Year   3upplies    Scenario 1    Scenario 2    Scenario 3    Task Force
1989     72.5        25.1           25.1            25.1          -4.1
1990     77.6        22.5           22.5            22.5          -3.0
1995    102.8        11.2           11.2            11.2           3.4
2000    113.3        18.6           29.5            33.4          18.0
2005    118.0        38.8           59.5            62.9          44.1
2007    118.0        52.4           70.6            73.8          57.7
2010    118.0         76.7          90.4            93.1            NA
-------------------------------------------
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
is the year 2007. A comparison of the new estimated deficits in year 2007
with the Task Force estimate, that is, given a higher initial population
growth compared to that of the Task Force and given varying assumptions of
per capita consumption levels of vegetable oils, may be interpreted as
follows. The results at first glance may be misleading and require careful
interpretation. Thus, even though the deficit in the first scenario falls



- 66 -                                . S.
Page 4 of 4
short of that estimated by the Task Force by 5,300 tons, and increases 1.2
fold in the second scenario and by 1.3 fold in the third, the long term
implication for the country under each scenario vary. Thus, the low
deficit given by the first scenario portends lower standards of living for
the population and increased levels of malnutrition as measured by the
drops in per capita consumption of edible oils. At the other extreme is
the third scenario, where the higher deficit is indicative of higher income
and better nutrition levels; however, even in this scenario the improved
per capita consumption level of edible oils at 5.9 kg per capita still
falls short of the WHO's recommended level of 9 to 10 kg annual per capita
consumption. This sensitivity and scenario analysis has assumed no
declines in real income per capita over the period. The resulting
estimated deficits could vary widely if this assumption were dropped and
would depend on the specific decline or growth of per capita income with
corresponding implications for future growth and nutrition levels.
AF4AG
November 2, 1989



AGRICULtURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Project Cowuwbts by Year
(CEDIS '000)
DM,. Costs                                          Total
1         2           3           4          5          6         7         CEDIS    (M  I'000)
A. NOR IICULIUb  JEVELOPHNT
1. GHM EJIOT PUNOTIII COUN CIL                 241,450.0  2076400.0  139.600.0            -           -         -         -   5699650#0    173.3
2. N5RTICILTIRE fECHNICAL ADVISORY UNIT         1236407.0  141,732.0  146,232.0  132,482.0   52,492.0  69,082.0 52.482.0   724.0"9.0   24129.7
Sub-Total DRWioLTURbL DEVELOPWENT                  £659057.0  355.332*0  295t832.0   132,462.0   52,482.0 694062.0 52462.0  1.312074.0   3.961,0
3. COFFEE UEVELUPWENT
1. OOC0ODO COFFEE RENA3ILITATION AND PLANTING    1049750.0  2050750.0  168,300.0    79,050.0   743400,0 95M400.0  93M900.0   821.350.0   2,415.7
2. COCOIOD COFFiE RESEARCH                        8,450.0  146.064.0   M0800.0   38,800.0   43,300.0 38,800.0 48800.0   405.034.0   1,191.3
5mb-Total COFFEE DEVELWPIENT                       113,200.0  :51.834.0  249,100.0  117.850.0  117,600.0 134,200.0 142,600.0  1.226.384.0   3,607.0
C. OIL PAUN DEVELU'EHNT
1. I0PDC PHASE 3 OUT6ROMER DEUELOPNENT                 -   559250.0  34.950.0  3899100.0  386,450.0 227t950.0 1719t50.0  1,5500450.0   44648.4
2. INTERHEDIATE TECHONIIGY PALN OIL HILLS        71,100.0  105,660.0  113,920.0   77M400.0   73,320.0 73.320.0 44.20.0   559,440.0   1,645.4
Sub-Total OIL PALH CEVELOPHENT                      71,100.0  1604910.0  46J7#70.0  466,500.0  459770.0 301,17.0 216,670.0  2139.890.0   6.293,8
D. RUBDER DEWLOPHENT
1. RUEM   ADVISORY UNIT                          12,460.0   37,812.0   33,468.0   19,O18.0   14,818.0  19.718.0  14,318.0   151,752.0        446.3
2. RU82ER OUT6f11ER P WNELOPNT                  154.000.0  104.440.0  162,800.0  134.880*0   77n40.0  94,440.0 113,190,0   8407900.   2,472.9
Sub-Total RUBER EULLOPHENT                        166600.0  142,252.0  196,268.0  153B999.0   91t958.0 114.158.0 127,508.0        MU2M42.0   2,919,2
E. AfRICUI.TURt   DEVELOIHENT OMA                         -  154.070.0   50,400.0            -           -         -        -   204r4/0.0       601.4
F. PROJECT COORDINAfId UNIT                        20.650.0   64250.0    6,600.0    69250.0    69250.0  6.250.0  189250.0    70400,0            207.1
Total DASELIHE COSTS                                736.507.0 1.170648.0 1W251,910.0  876,90.0  727t960.0 624,060.0 557.510.0  5.94635.0  17,489.5
Physical Contmncies                               50,492.5   83.796.9   N4120.0   76,43.0   65,454.0  49,144.0  42t259.0   4619609.4   1,357.7
Price Contimencies                                35t124.5  252,368.6  362746.3  320,895.4  3214297.8 318,178.8 323,324.8  1,933,936.2   3.69,5
Total PROMKCT COSTS                                 822.124.0 1,506U813.5 1#708.1S163 1.274210.4 1.i114.711.8 992,182.9 9239093.8 9,341.990.6  22,413.7
:========     =:=5:ZZZ=_ -:=0== 3 ma::SSScan:S S=I2tl -__   ===:== ====-===t=  =mzz=::4===: Cv=:f=:=M 
Taxes                                             58,346.1  142,948.9  17.1208.)  1297:37.6  101.11..7 73256.0 67,191.3   745P802.9   24001*1
Foreign Exchange                                 5866712.4  965,296.3 1,002,373.9  699,759.1  570,777.9 567.832.6 5429522.0 5,014,274.3   1.iS04.9
--                  --              -       -      --            ---                     --                   -----
June 29 1990 09:38



- 68 -
REPB3LIC Of  4AUN                           Annex 4.02
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                                                           Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal        IDA            Dt.-       Cumulativ            as Percentage of
YT4r          Quarter       bureement    Disbursement        Crodit      Prof il eJ
FT 91          IV              0.2           0.2            1.0            0.0
FY 92           t              0.2           0.4
II             0.6           0.9
III             0.6            1.4
IV             0.C            1.9          11.8            0.7
FY 98           I              0.6           2.6
II             0.6            8.1
III             0.7           8.6
IV             0.8           4.6           27.4           18.2
FY 94           t              1.0           6.6
II             1.0           6.6
IIU             0.9           7.4
IV             0.9           6.8           49.4           20.6
FY 96           I              0.8           9.1
lt             0.6           9.8
'II             0.7          10.7
IV             O.7           11.8          67.8           88.6
FY 96           I              0.6          11.9
1:             0.7           12.6
III             0.6           18.2
IV             0.6           18.8          82             62.5
FY 97           I              0.6          14.4
'-I            0.4          14.8
III             0.4          16.2
IV             0.4          15.6           92.8           86.6
FY 98           I              0.4          10.0
IU             0.5           16.5         100.0          100.0
Y   haons Oll Palm Obe lopmsnt Project (Credit 581-4N)
doc.ne am n4.02
20 July 90



GHANA                                        Annex 4.03
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF                PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION         MINISTRY OF|
INDU5.-RIES                  COMMITTEE                IAGRICULTUREl
GREL          lGEP C                                |      GOPDC  
RUBBER OUTGROWERS                  PROJECT               OIL PALM OUTGROWERS
COORDINATION UNIT
COCOBOD 
PILOT PROJECTS                   N.G.O.
CRIG
COFFEE FARMERS            PINEAPPLE SMALLHOLDERS       SMALL PALM OIL MILLS
EXPORT PRODUCTION VILLAGES
ADD
CSD
HORTICULTURE AND
RUBBER TECHNICAL
UNITS
doc.name: orgchart
13 oct 89



AnneX 4.04
Page 1
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
ImpIntentati-on Schedul3
Project Year                         Pre-Proj       1          2        3          4         5         B          7         8          9
IDA CY                                  90        91          92       93        94         95        96         97        98         99
FY                               1990/1991 1991/1992 1992/1993 1993/1994 1994/1996 1996/1996 1996/1997 1997/1998 1998/1999 1999/2000
Quarter (IDA FY)                     1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4
1. IDA
Negotiations                   x
Board Preentation                x
Effectivens                        x
Completion Date                                                                                                         x
Closing Oatx
2. Project Implementatlon 
Oil Palo Outgrowers                                           *....,.... ,**s*.s s **s*.oss*. ,.a...... se.                              _
ITSPM Program                            *s..sc*.. *ce**cc s *           . * ec.c..c -   *.ae.ee s **sc** cs ..ccsccca
Coffee Pianting/Rehxb.                            t          t         t          i         t          I
Coffee Research                              s.c.. g s.*cccce .*Jcsoc.cia s*sece -e s .s.e.*c _ a  *..s.*ess. I
Rubber Advisory Unit                               I         I         II
Horticulture Promotion                   ,......c.           I
Horticultural Advisory Unitt              ..s.c.. a .....cca . se.c....  scssecsa m e.csscst a ss..s.*a  .c.c.c
ADB
Reports:
Quarterly                                  x  x x   x  x             x  x x x x x x x    xxxx   x xxx   x xxx   x
Completion                                                                                                                     x
* Based on calendar year
doc.name:ann4.04 (29 Aug 90)



- 71 -
Annex 4.04
Page 2
List of Key Actions for 12 Months from Board Presentation
Organization Responsible       Completion
Action                          or Involved                 Date
1. Board Presentation                    IDA                   9 Oct. 1990
2. Oil Palm Outgrowers:
a. GOPDC submits to IDA program
for Management of nucleus
estate/outgrower operations        GOPDC/GOG            30 June 1991
3. ITSPM Program:
a. Agreement with NGO to
manage ITSPM program               MOA                  30 June 1991
4. Coffee Planting/Rehabilitation:
a. Statement in mass-circulating
newspapers inviting private
sector to participate in coffee
purchasing, hulling or export.    COCOBOD               1 Dec. 1990
5. Rubber Outgrowers
a. Submission to IDA of rubber
outgrower implementation plan
and management program.            GREL                 30 June 1991
b. Finalize model outgrower service
and input supply agreement.        GREL                 31 Dec. 1991
6. Horticulture Promotion:
a. Submit proposal to IDA for
horticulture pilot projects        GEPC                 30 Mar 1991
b. Diagnostic study of SPGC           MOA                  30 .,une 1991
doc.name: 4.04b
(29 Aug 90)



HAbNA                                                      ANNEI I.01
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PRWECT                                     Table 5.1.1
OIL-PAII OUT0ONE R
ICEDI/HAI
YEARO             YEAR I            YEM 2             YEAR 3             TOTAL            NATURE
UINIT     WIT    I UIIIT       COST    : UIIIT    COST ' Wlt    CG5T   I niilr csos: UII             Cosr: nn          C0St
cast                                                   :                 :                 :1
------- -- -  ------ ------         -       ------I  I-- ---- ----    ----------- --------- --------
SIEVE                    ND            3501       2      700:        0       01        0       01        0       01        2      7001       0        0
NlIERDMHIIS              aD            350        15    5250:        0       0:        0       01        0        01      15    5250:        0        0:
FEULLIS                  nD            350s      10    35001         0       0:        0       01        0       o        1o    3500:        0        0o
STACKINE, 11INS          ND            3501 i           2100                 0         0       0e        0        01       6    2100:        0        0O
LININ                   ND            3SO1       4    1400          0       0o        0       0o        0        0        4    14001        0        0
COVER CROP SOINS         ND            351        2      700:        0       0 1       0    0e           0       0         2      700        0        0O
DIGG1N1S HLES & PLANTING   NO          350:      Is    5250:         0       0:        o       01        0       0o       15    1250:        0        0:
StmLr.1                  mI            3501       0        0o        I     3501        0       0:        0       0o        1      350:       0        01
SLASHING                 ND            3501      10    35001        1o    35001       to    35001        5    17501       35   12250:        5    1750:
CILEIEE11I1              ND            3501       20    70001       20    70001       20    7000 1      20    70001       80   280001       10    35001
PEST AID DISASE COUTOL  ND             350:       3    1050:         3    10501        3    1050:        3    10101       12    42001        2      7001
PRUIING                  ND            3501       0        01        0       01        0       0        0       01        0        01       3    1050:
1iwis                    ND            3501       3    10501         3    10501        3    10S01        3    10101       12    42001        3    10501
AIMIVESI                  ND           3501       0        01        0       01        0       01        0       01        0        0:      19    63001
SUB-TOTAL                      :      0      15001      37   12501        36   12600 1      31   109501       194   67900:       41   11350:
*TERIAlAIIDEAN PIEllT                      :                 :                 :                  :
TIIUC1KS                NKR            1071      30    3210:        5      5351        5     535:1       5     531        45    49151       20    2140:
CMIN SII                  DAY         10701       4    4200          0       0         0       0o1       0        0e        4    42901       0        01
FUEL iU1IBI               L             701      t0      696         0       01        0       01        0       0        10      6961       0        01
COVER CUPSEED             K6           3751      10    37451         0       0 1       0       0o1       0        0       10    3745 1       0        0o
FERTLIZERS               Ks             3b1      57    4379         95    12761     1,4    9750 1    114    97591    370   31672 1    140   119841
IlkE                      N2           2411       15    36111        0       01        0       01       0        01      15    36111        0        0
P IUltNB NATERIAIA       PLAIT         4209     143   612041         7    2n61         0          0      0 t       01    150   64200 1       0        0
S    L TDDLS 1101 LAD COST) VALUE          1            3150 t2Im  1                         12401             10051       0    67901              14351
HERBICIDE & PESTIC1DE     16          3210        0      42         0    124:         0    12414        0    12841        1    4941         0    1284
I                         ~~~~~~~~~~II
BID-TOTAL                                  8 05417 1          13396:            12337 t           12662 :          1243032            16943 
TOTAL                                      116917             26336             25437             23512 I           1922031           3113:
OILPLfCD*.w1
00128/89



Wm                             ENI 5.01
RiMtIrAL O1RIFICATIP PROJECT                 lable 5. 1. 2
P0N OIL
FIMCIIL AND ECtDIC PRICE
IM9 COSTUT PitIES
FIIKIML                        ECOUDIC
- - - ---                      -- -- --- -
1990       i ImS   1 2000    :  iMO   I.0   15 :  2000
------------  -,-----------------   -                                 -   ----:-:
CIF ROTTEDI Upm/T  UA             360.00    465.62    429.02 ::    o.oo00    465.62 1 429.02
FREIGHT S INLIE  SI            3  45.00 3  45.00       45.00      45.00     45.00     45.00
ci tl   TMirU                  405.00 1 510.62    473.02 1  405.00 1 510.62    473.02 I
b. CIF TEV  CEHITUN               147825        76    172652  i 14m725:  196374 i  172652
PORT HLI  AS CURSES I  110o7   13397              12949 31  11067      13976     12949
TRAr RT SPORT TO MILL)   3 3740          370       3740 1    3740       3740      3740
C.      SUBTOTAL                   14127     17718      6699 31  14827      1718      16689
d. SCF 0.93                    :                                  137       16479     15521
. PRIEE PER TON Al H1ILL  ATE    13299d    16a656    155963 31  134036    1698    157112
f.VALUEP .L tHERIL                 20900     20900    20900       20900     2000    20900S
9.    St1O3 1 IE#F)            3 1531    IO556    1766           154936    I90793   17032 3
h. PROCESSIN6 COST OF OIL      3  24200      24200     24200      24200     24200 3  24200
.             .         ..          .         .
t.TRAIMTR TOtILLBArE            10948:  1097Z8    1090 :       1094a 1  10948      10940
SUBTOTAL IN.1)                 35148       35148     3514U ::  35149      35148      35140 3
. VALE AT1 MILL6ATE 46-Jl         118750    154410    141715 H  119780   lss50 o    142804
1. NCLEUS DOERNEOS * NM811  335625          46323     4 42515   3s336       46695     429651
T. 01.k [KMS COSTS                7 10773     81471    77663 3 t  71064    861843 1  71013 3
n.SCFO.93                                          I :       :   661)08     761)4    72552
O  NRET WLOE 41 IILWATE           113125    tw6o?    SS201;   66293  114664   10479n
p. EWtU.  TO FF IIIUATE           174563   226962   20632        168531   2403 1   22150 1
Al SRSE* IND CIOW IT POICE FOECASTS OCtfh 191 198S
Di DIFFERENTIAL GETMEE  HLYSIAJRTEUU AND RDTEUUITEA
tFFPRCYC.KI
1112819



GHANA                                            ANNEX 5.01
ASRICUILTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT                          Table 5.1.3
OUT6ROtER BUDGET FOR I HA OF OIL PALO
CONSTANT 190 CEDIS
01   1  12 2                    3         4               I 6          7    8             9-15 : 15-19 : 20-23 1 24-25
----- ---- ----- ---- -----  --- -----41 - ----- -i-- -----  -------  i- --S-- -- - - -- - - 1 -- - -- -I-- - -- -- -- - -
_   _   _   0 _  _   I        |     _   I         t   _   _ l  __   _      *  ¢   I    *   1    , I    I                                  _ 
YIELD TON/MA                1    0.0 1    0.0 t    0.01        0.0 1    2.01       4.0:      6.01      7.01     8.0.    9.0D        9.0       9.51      7.51
PRICECEDI/TON              :  22690U                1 t  I                             1 
6ROSS REVENUE              :         1 :          :                    45396 1  9072  1 t36188 1 158806   181504   204282 M      204202  1I92933 1 170235 '
TOTAL COST                 I 11691  1  26336 1  25437 1  23512 :   31193:   31193          31193 1  31193 1  31193 1  31193    31193    31193 1  31193 1
BENEFIT BEFORE INPUT LEVY   I        t                      :                1  59599 1 104995    127693 1 150391 1 173099  1 173089 1 161740   139042 
INPUT LEVY                            I                                      I  199501   299261   34913 1  39901    44069    4489 1             01        01
NET tENEFiT                 I                                      I         I  39649 1  75069       92780    110490 1 128200 1 128200 1 161740:  139042:
INPUT LEVY/GROSS REVENUE    I        :         :         I         I         :      22:      22        221       221       221       221        0:        0:
GROSS MARGIN                1         1             1         1         1        51349 1  06769   U104490    122190 1 139900  1139900 1 173440    150742 1
FARNER LABOUR INPUT(DI I          901       371       361       31        411        411      411       41 1      411       41       411       411       411
6ROSS NIIN PERMD                      I 1       1:  :                        1   12521    21161    2549 1   29801    3412 1   34121    4230 1   36771
NEt RETURN PERID N O                            1             : I            1    %79    19311    22631    26951    31271    31271    39451    3391:
LOAN ANtUT                       68926I  13306:   128371   12662    16043              1 I                 1 :                 1 :                          I
CIJNULATIVE LOAN                8926:   955961  1243251  156773:  193901                        I         I :       I        :         I         :
INTEREST AT 157 ON CUWl lK  1    I       14339    196491   23516:   29005            : :    :             1 I
ON CURRENT K1    6U69      10041     963:      9501    1263 1          1                   I         I         :                            1
LOMN OUTSTANDING END YEAR 41         1       1:                       2410931         1         I         :         :        :                   1 :
LOAN TO K RECOWERED       a  619464  124109300.171017'151
TOTAL FF9 SlO IN 15 YEARS c      124  (STARTiNG YEAR 51
LE" PER TONIFFB         :       4998
OILPm.w1
11128/09



mm.2                                          ,JfI 5Sa,)
APICU2.TLURA  DIVERSIFICATION P9OJELT                        ?abi, 5.1.4
CUJTGRIEI 9206E? FOR I MA8 OF OIL PAL" INTEKRCOPfED
COISIAlI 2990 CEDES
OTELOS 821 9E9ENi~~~~~~~  :0,    I         2 ~~~      3    i      4    :     5    i     6          : 7        9; 9-291
VIFLS  AN                         .
VIELD TOOI"A                  .     0.0:       0.01       O.61       0.o;i      2.0:       4.0:       6.0         7.0:       9.01       9.A
fEVMIE I C226499T                                                         I     45396 1   90792    1 3618B    159896   1292594    204292
mill
YIELD ONIU A                  .     0.91            1          :                                 
11EVENI C400001              1    200               
PLOAINIJ.                                                                                 ..
OIELOBIItCH/KA                                 350        200             :
REVESE I C500IIRMC                          I750s0      50000:
TOTAL. REVENIE   :    200    1 7500        50000          0     45396 1   90792    136199    159096   1021584    204292
EOST
FFOINA                    I~~~~ 11691?     26336:   25437     23512       129 311 93 119         ;lq'      11191     ';Ii 19    32191
MA IE'If 28 4?50
P13T4IN1412                            16000       3oo          6 
TOTAL. COST     14'667    '29316       263327      235122      2   3119      1  31193  t19  :    I29   219    1    193 lli1
BENEFIT SEFOR  INPUT LEYVI          -22566?      1 45664:   23663    -23512        14203      59599    !149951   127693    1 5602 9      1730899
14P0T LEVY~                                                                                 IMP95        29926      3 4911 :   3901       44899
MET KNMEFIT                          *1!5667 :145664         23663    -25122       242l       19649      75069      92790    101490    :29200
INPUT LEVY/6ReSS REVENUE I                                                                       22:        .22        22         22;         22
FARM LABOUJRINPUITMAN DAY
G1LPAI.N          :       90:        3'~~~~~~~~~~~~   3.6:            41         42;        421        4I1         411        41
MAIZE                                     1.):                                             
PLANTAIN                           :      20         10:         1::                                 : 
TOTAI. NANDAYS:         140:        47;        I9         31         421        421        411        411         41;        42:
GROS  fmARIN                          -73667 1  159764     15363    -142122        26503     51949       8 7369    1050K0   1222790   1240500 1
UIISSMEN PERE RD                        -526:      3399        90':      -450:       646:      226?       21311      2563:1    29951       1427;
MEtI  EtUON PERO RD                     -9261      30991       607:      -750:       346:       967:      29321      2261 1    26951       317?;
LOAM  AMTI?I 
DILPALN                           89926:    13)961    1293?:    12662         26941:
MAIZE                         .57501                1 
PLANTAIN                          lo000 i                      i          1          :           
fOTAL LOUAOMA2OU    :104676   123386:   122937  122662   126843:                    0           0:         0:         o: 
CUIWLATIVE LOAN                    1   99926 1 95596   12241,25   1256773 1  :93901                   
INTEREST AT IS? ON C1121 L                     12413191   106491    251561   29095;
ON CURRENT k    :     6669   1   004:        9631       950   122631                
LOAN OUISTANDIUSEN   YEAR 4       :                      ;                     1241093:                                                          i    
LO1AN TO BE RECOVERED                629464  (241 92.0.171017115I
TOTAL FF9 SOLO IN2 25 YEARS              1 24  ISTARTINS YEAR 5)
LEVY PER TON/FFG                        4989
OILPCRPS.NT I
11/28189



ANNIEX 5.01
Table 5.1.5
A8RIMUTUtL DIVERSIFICATIONl PRWECT
OUT8ROUER suD6ET FOR I MA OF OIL PALOl
CURREIIT CEDIS (BASE YEAR 19901
I   o    1   1          2    1   3    1   4    : 5               6         7    1 8          9-19      20-23  124-25
YIELD TOMMA                 I    0.0        0.0:      0.0       0.0:    2.0:        4.0:      6.0       7.0:      .0.       9.0 i    0.5:       J.5 
INFLATION1 I                J      20 1      15:       to i      O 1i      to         o           I                             1.
lINFLATION FACTOR                          1 .20     1.30      1.52 I    .67       1.84 1         Is                    
PRICE CEDIITON                  22698     21236      31323    34456     37901    41691 1   1691     41691       4t691    41691      41691:   41691
6ReSS REVENE                                              J 1           75802    I"65J s    250147    291839    333530   375221: 3s43ts    312684
TOTAL COST                     116917     31603     35103;   35691    52086       57295      57295    57295 1  57295    57295    57295        57295
BENlEFIT BEFORE IWPUT LEVY   I                                          23716   109470    M85E3    234544   2T6235   317926    297 !t   255390
IIIPUT LEVY                           i                                           26073     39110:   45629    52146    5@66^            u:        0
NET BENlEFIT                                              :             23716    e33sJ   153743    18s916     224089   259262    2t/osl    255390
INPUT  W:1V/GROS REVENUE 2                             :                                :J   16   16     16        16        16    o       o
mRoss HARGINI:                                            I         :35416      95097:  165443    200616    235789     270962; 309791    267090:                                     f
FARKER LABOUR IIIPUT (ND)    I     9         37 1      36 11     31        41 :      41:       41:       41:1      41 I      41:       41:       41: I
asMS M"R61N PER ND         01                                             84       2319 1    035       4993 1   5751       6609      7531      6514: 
NET RETURI PER ND           :                             I                  5709  2034      3750      4608 J   5466       6323      7246      6229 
LOUI ATM                    :  0926    16063        17715 :   9221    26124                                           I          
ONeINAL INITEREST RATE PA t  'o    25:       20 1       5Is      t5        15           I  
r'4ULATIVE LeAll               103417    114533    155109 J 197419:1 247694             I                    
INTEREST ONl CURULaTIVE X                22e7:   23266      29613:  37154               t1 
ONl CURENT t           11116      1606      1329      1442:    2109            t                                
LOAN OUTSTAN1D1N6 END YR4                                              315092 I:
LOAN TO BE REcevEREo       2   808266  (315082#0.171017J15
TOtAL FFO SWD IN  1s YEWR r        24  tStMTrIIS OR 51
lEVY PE  TONFFs                  6518
QLLNtU.Wi
1 1128169



bllRK                                                                                        AShI 5.01
ABRIC3LTURk DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT                                                                         tablg 5.2.1
3ALLHOLOER COFFEE - REPLANhIK AND NE#l PLuATIN
(ctOS CEDIM/A)
YERN o            YEN  I             vie  2             TOTAL            YEAR 3                 AR 04            tEAR 5             YEMR               9 I7
UNIIT    UIT      :1U1     tOST      :0T      COST      :IT COST :UUIT    COST :MIT                    COST :S     IT    coST       u1t31    COST     30131     cost     ,lMIT    COST
COST     1
tesr  t                                :                                     '                                                                           ;  . 
.. :M                                                                                                                                       :                                                       t1
SINw                       NO            350:        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0         0        0°        0                  0 
rIEUUSHI                   No            3501       30     0500:        0        0:        0        0:       30    3S300         0        0:       o 0       0o 0              0         0        0         0        0:
FELLINS                    NO            3501       so    305001        0        01        0        0        30   10500?         0        01        0       01        0        0?        0        01        0        0:
STAWINS,3U1N               Ito           350:       10    33091         0        0:        0        0?       l0     3500:        0        0:        o0     0o          0       0         0        01        0        0:
LIIII                       o            30D         T 6   2100:        0        0:        0        0:        6    23001         )        0e       0        01         0       01        0        01        0        0:
COVERROP Scm    S          N             350A        4     14001        0        0:        0        0:        4     14O0:        0        0        0        0        0        0:        0        0:        0        0:
01033U9 213ES              ND            3301       50    175001        0        01        0        0:       s0    17500:        0        0:       0        0 0               0                    :       0        0:
FtAINs                     ND            3501       30  10500           0        01        0        0°       30                  0        0:       0        0         0        0°        0        0°        0        0
StP IIn1                   No            iS9:        °        o         9     31O:         °        0°        9     3150         0        0°       0        °         0        0°        0        0?        0        0
SLASHI,                    ND            ;50o       20     7000:       30   3o05o:        30    osco:        gO    29000:       20     70001       20     7000?       20     70001       I5    52501        l5    3250:
srIip si1o 6               no            ;504       30   lesoo:        36    12600:       36   12600:       102    35700:       20     7000?       20     7000:       20    7000 1       20     7000:       20    7000:
VIST AS  DISEASE CONTROL  ITD            3           4     1400i        I    1400          4     1400:       12     42001        4     3400         4     14001        4     1400?       4      3400         4     1400
0313NII                    ND            350?        3                        1050: 3    10501   2050:        9     31501        3      050:        3     1050'        3                 3     10500         3         :loso
PRrMIMB                    KU            350I        0        0:       20     7000?       20    7000         40    140001       20     7000:       20     2000        20     7000:      20     7000?       20      7000:
COPPICIS                   IID           350:        0        01        0        0:        0        0?        0        01       0         0?       0        01        0        0?        0        0?        0        0?
NIARVESTINS                a             350:        0        01        0        o!        0        0:        0        0o       22     7700        02    14700        45    J573o0       69   23B00:       53    l750o
RAO M  TRAEKS              ID            350I        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0                 0        0°        0        0         0        0
0          1-
SUB-TOTAL                              197    68050?    I302   35700:        93    32550?      392  326700 T       0     33250:      109    393501      112   39200:       130    455001      1153    3550
.----- - -- - ------ -                                                                                     *                                                                                              1:
rMYhrIJA  ANTD Elu3PElWT                     :                  :         
CHAINSAN                   DAY          20r70        5     5350:        0        01        0        0:       5      5350:       0        01        0        Q         0        0:        0        0.        0        01
FUEL IStJEIUI              L              861i       0        01        0        01        0                 0        0?        0        0         0        01        0        0?        0        0         0        01
CWOER     SSEE SI5                           I       t 371  a  96       0        o;        n        0:       8      2996?       0        0         0        0o        0        0:        0        01        0        0o
FERTILIERS 320-30-302      46            107        43   4OI5 1        TO   10700    1200    10700          245   265 :       200    21400        300    321030:    300)   321Q00       700   3230 1)     300     21300
PLAITIEA FTERIAL           TREE           43       I66    712505      Id      648          0        0:    3926    79153:        0        0:        0        0?        0        0:        0        01        0        0:
Sl TOOLS IOJ LAI COST) VA3IE                 I             68951              3570.             3255?              12670:             3115:              3835?              3920:              45501              3051
tESTICIDE                  16           2140         4     9560:        4    950           4    05601o      32   25601          4    85601         4    8o561         4    65605         4    B5:           4      56o
meIO ATED U YER            UNIT        19260?        1    19260?        0        0?                 01        I   39260         0        01 e                 :
T191   T m   SAS           VALSUE    42102/T                                                                                          1712 n2?u                             3424               5136               T52
ST2T-TOTAL                                   33938 1            296                22515             171374              34787              47043              48004              50346              4847
1011.                                       18811               65179              5W  1             299074              657                85193              97204              931461            9007
*~~                                                                                                                                                                 ~        ~~                 ~~~~~~~~~~~ :  :  :      
COFftEt.WI
C6/29/TF



OKa                                                                                        Awl 5.01
6RICUTMAL DIVERSIFICAIION PRJECT                                                                         TblIe 5.2.1
SHALRLDER COFFEE - REPANTING AND NEW PLANTING
ICST CEDII/H
TEARS             YEAR 9           YEARO              YEAR 11           YEAR 12             EAR 1S           YEAR 14            YEAR 15
UNIT    UNIT     :LIT    COST    LUfIT   OtsT    IUNIT    CDST    :UMIT    COST            WNIT    COST      :NIT    COST    WLMIT    COST         V171   COST       :
COIST   :
A U      .                 I                                    I                                    I :
BUlEY                    tND           3501        0        01       0        02        0       01        0        01        0       01        0        0        0        01        0        04
L_ERIDING                1e            350:        0        01:      0        01        0       0         0        0         0       0o        0        01       0        0o        0        01
FELLIM                    ND           3501        0        o:       o 0      02        0        0o 0              01        0       01        0        01        0       00
STiaCs,  UIN             ND           3501        0        0:       0        01        0       01        0        0:        0       0:        0        01       0        01        0        o:
LININU                    ND           3501        0        01       0        01        0        01       0        01       0       01        0        0        0        01        0        01
cewcRCPssNt               N            351         0        0:       0        o:        0        01       0        0i        0       01        o        01       0        01        o        0:
DINIUS ILES               C            350:        0        01       0        0         0       01       0        0 1       0        0:       0        0:                01        0        0o
PLUTI                    Po           3501        o0       0        0        0I        0        01       0        01i       0        0o       0        0        0 I                0        0o
SuPtI.1NG                 ND           350:        0        01        0       01        0        01       0        01        0        02       0        01        0       01        0        01
SLASHINS                  to           3501       20    70001        15    52501       5s   52501         15    52S01       25    52501       20    7000i        Is    52501       15    52501
STRIP NEEDIU              no           3501       20    70001        20    7o0o:       20    7000:       20    N00:         20    70001       20    IW7 :        20     7000:      20    70 1
PEST 4D DISEASE CONTRL   Re            3501        4     14001        4    14001        4     t4001       4    14001         4    14001        4    54001         4     14001       4    14001
IMERiE                    n1            3501       3     1010         3 3    loso i     3    1050         3    l0501         3    1050:        3    10501         3     10501       3    lo00
UJllSt                    no            350:      20    7000o        20    70001       20    70001       20    70001        20    70001       20    70001        20    70001       20    70001
COPPICINS                 PID           350:      26    9900o         0       0o        0        0o       0        0o        0        01      2E    900           0       01        0        01
IVESTINU                  RD            350:      29    9100         45   257501       51   17D50:       51    17901        51   It79O5       2D    900          45   157501       SI    176501
ROA I     TRPAS           OD            350 1      0        01        0       0         0        0                 0         0       0e        0        0       0        01 O               0o
SUB-TOTA                              123   43050       1 0o7    374501   213   395501       1t3   395501      113   3S5501       123   430501      207   374501      113   395501
NATERIAL 0  IFNMI                                  II                                                     I                                    II 
HSTERIUt   EOUIEIT                         :                  :                 :                  :                 :                  :                 :                 :1
CNAIUso                   DAY         I0701        4    42901        0        01        0       01        0        01        0       01        4    42501        0        01        0        04
!UE.L INIs)               L             961        0        01       0        01        0       01        0        01        0       01        0        0         0       0         0        0
CO   CRWS SEED            KS           375         0        01       0        01        0        01       0        01        0       0:        0        0:        0       01        0        0:
fEOTILIZEN  20-10-101    S6             107:    300   32100 2    300   32200          300   32100 1    30    32100 1    300   3200 1.   300   32100             300    2100:      300   322001
PANTINB rATERIAL          TKE           431        0        01       0        01        0        01       0        01        0       0 .       0        01        0       0         0        0
OIWL t0OLS (tO  LO COST) OVE                1            4301              37451              39f55             39  1              3955:             4305:              3745:             3m 
PESTICIDE                 K6          22401        4    05601        4    95i01         4    R5501        4    SW  1         4    95601        4    9O5           4    556o0        4    95601
E UIEIRA smm              UNIT       292601                   :1I
Tnr ImtSI=                VALUE 1   42 01TI              21402             3424:             3821               m52 1             35521              2140:             3424               3521
SUrTO-01          :                         52315              47591             4947 1            4847       :       464471            51395 1            4792m9            4367
....~~~~                                                                                                                                      ~        ~ I      I  2      : 
TOTAL                                        44351             95279      :      90171             5172               3 017              44351             352791            901307
-                 ---- - ----         ------------------        -----------            -----------          - ---------            -------            ------------------------ -      ----- 
COIFFEU.511,
0129,9



AIEt 5,0t
TABU 5.2.2
Wmm
mICULTUIMsL fIVsIFICATI PRECT
COFFEE
FIMAIAL US ECIID    C PRICE
1990 CDTANIIT PRICES
FINANCIAL                     ECINSIC
:  1990   I 1995   1 2000    | I  1990   1 1995   1 2000   1
--   - ---   ----   -- -   ----   --  ----               ---------          ----
CIF EU lEt NVISOTO  Al 31     1 2030.00 t 2679.40 1 3024.40 11 2030.00  2679.40   3024.40
NIT"I ISCOIUNT E              1    1360 1   175 1   2026 11    1601    1795:   2026 t
LESS                         III                            11         :         I         :
FRtl6HT t II ULh                     14o1      14 1 1    148       1411      1481      14t:
I            ~~~~~~~~IN
a. FUS TEiA USS/TON           1    1212 1   1646 1   1979 11   1212         1646 1   1979
114           14        11i        1         1
b. FBM TEIIA CEDlOT11         1  442310 1 600876   68491   U442310   600076 1 695491
*         :         I         55         S        :         :
PORT CHARGES             1   33173 1  45066 1  51412 11  33173 :  45066 1  51412
TiANSPORT TO PORI        '    9000      9  01    90001 1    9000t      9000     9000:
E. TOTAL INLAND COSTS         1   42173 1  54066 :  60412 1   42173 1  54066    60412 1
I         :         :         ::        5         S         :
i. PROtESSING COSTS               40900    4080  1  40800 11  40600 a  40800 1  40900 
.   z       .        ~     ~~1:  :                  1 
e. PROC55IN16 HARBOR          1    90934 1 126503   146070 1'  99934 1 126503 5 146070 i
e. SCF 0.93                   :          1        :          : 160711   2059731  229972 t
F. PRICE PER TON AT HILL SATE  1  269503:  379508 1 439209 11 291599 I 395004   455519 1
Ai SOURCE: (1RD COIIODITY PRICE FORECASTS DATED OCTOBER 19, 1999.
Di COFFEE IICO), INDICATOR PRICE, OTHER MILO ARABICAS, AVERA6E IEI YORK AND OEM/ENWIBURS
ARMETS, El-DOCK FOR PRO0PT SHIIPWIET
El 6HAHAIAN ROBUSTA IS ASSUIED TO BE DISCOUNTED AT 33 PEROCET IN RELATION TO IIILD ARADICAS
COFFET.PPCYC.hIKI
1126ie



IMIIE  5.01
Table 5.2.3
WIIULllS DIVMIFltATI01 FRWET
SEO BUM FOi IIN Of CllfFfEE
CONlSTNIIT IS90 CEDIS
0         I         t 2        3               4     I 5      t 6       I    7     9          0 9      10         It        1    1 2   13    : 14   : 15-19
VIEL0 TMS/F                  I             1    0 1       0 J      0.4 X     0.6 1     0.0 1      1.2       0.9 1      0.51I    0.          0.  I .   0.9 O. .9            0.5       0.9        O.S
PRlCE CEDI/tOII                 379S0  1                     I         I          I                                   I                                    Ia,1
OM0S  REEM                        I                          1   510103    22mo5   3036U    455410t  34155t    19954 : JOJ606    341557 11 34155J:' 34155: 189J54    303606   341557
l0TllL CDST                     116C26 I  S3          S5:        WS37:   5193        07204      9594:   08017 194435 :8279                01 1      08017 IJ   I  el7:     435     852?9      89017
6EIEfT BEfORE IOPUT LE"                I1                         M6      142512    216402     359S64     253540     9539 11 210327    253540 1253540    253540          SS31S    21C321    253S40
lout LEV                                                               I             67846U    1017N9'  76327        42404 1    7046      76327:   7U327 t 76J27:   42N4 1    7846 1   8327
IIET KIT                                                         1150666   142512    14NS57 1 2577v  1  177214:   5291S:  150402 1 IM14:  177214    177214               52915:  t50482    171214
IIFT EIGUtM/lR OSSIEt:                                                 I         I      2 n        22 1      22         22        22:        22:       22 11     22         22:4      22 s'      22:
WAl0S NARM1                                                     110266    102412    1"IS?    31S05M      2014 I   WItS    192782 : 224614    224614    224UI:  100715    197662    2Wl461
fAl  LAM    IIWT 10111             197        102 1      93 I          5     109 1      112 1     130 1     113:1    123         107        113       ItS       IIS        123       107        113
60161551"IN M   0                                 1          1    i32  1    16N4o    1750 I   2N24 1    20" 1          7BI      1 I02      I1        IM 1       19B3        84      tB49 I    IM" 1
NEt  ET     PE  NO:                                                965 1    1307 1    1326       1903 1 IS5 U 1        43       1406 1    15d  IS I30           1569 5    430:   140 .         159 
UlMmm     SI/        I       11 103036   I1o :   22515 :          4M?8 t    4704: 5'  4804 5    S361           7     5 13O   5   7929  5    07      GW6 N 8467  1   51X            47829: J  I06 
COl4LATIVE LM                1  1030136 1 IlOtU4    182623 1 231220 5 306740                                               1                                                   5                    :
Iona" AT 153 ON co     1                   16615 1   21393 a' S5133 1   W12                1I t :                I
Il atSEll 91   7726         3954 1    169 1   26"          30   I                                                                                                        t
ULOAN n   IlUIto  END1014                       :                         03332 I      t         I          I       : .. 
:  I   :   :  :  : : : t X : X : : t : ...... :~I                t 
IDIII To 0E KIE II             1034649  1403332 0. 17101Je15)
Wt   OMZaFE SRI 11 15 YM          12.2   lSlStlNF  S\$
IEI M TolKmBI               a  90
It IlillUISU   6 LA         C M    T_"     1E      I N  2
COFFEPOXI
121841119



WXA                                                                                OKI 5.01
ANICULTUML DIVMIFICATIBN PAWECT                                                                    Table 3.2.4
NKLOW MMT FOR I 0 OF COFFEE INMWKD
EN PIAII16 AND REPLWI1116
CONSTANT IM MOIS
------------------
0    :    I    '    2    1   3    :    4    o'   5    !    6    1    7    I   0    1    9    '.   10    i    it               12    1    13    :    14   .1 15-19
-------------------------------- ---------- I---------- I--------- ---------- 1--------- --------- ----- - -- --------- I- - ------ --------- --------- --------- --------- :--------- --------- ---------
VIELDS AN REVEME
COFFEE KANS
YIELD TONIM                                     0 1        0       0.4 1      0.6 1     0.6        1.2        0.9 i    0.5         0.6       0.9        0.9       0.9        0.5        0.6 I     0.9
REVEIK  I C37""ITQN          I        0         0 1        01 151003    227705    303601 455410 1 341557    109154 1 303606    341557 i T41557    341551    189754    3OU06    J41557 1
PLANTAIN                          I                    I          10                                                             i
VIELD NO/M                                    3s         10             I         I          I          I
BEYM  I CMIMM                         P  lm"   50M                      4         I          I          I
TOTAL REVENK               0 1 175M   1   3M          15103 t 2277051 303M   1 4554tO 1 341357    109154    303606 1 341557 1 341557 1 341557    199754    3OU06 I 341557 1
1         1          1                                                                                              1.
cost                                                                                  10          I         I                                                                                              I
COFFEE KMINA                         18811i     653781  M S 1   6511371   05193 t   672041  9M    1   88017 1  94435                 85279      80017     88017 1   80017       94435 1  85270       800171
PLAITAININA                           I&W         3000 :     "O 11                     I                    I                    Al                                                  1.
TOTAL COST         204131     603701   55965       65937 1  95193       872441   "M   I  89017 1   "435 1   65279            80017      99017 1  W17 1   94435          85279     =17
KNEFIT KFORE [IM    LEW             -204131    106622      -59651  850M  1  142512    21402    359564    253510            95319    210327    253540 i 251540    253540 1  95319    219327 1 753540 1
lror LEW                                                                   .1              670461  101769 1   76327 1   4240  1  4794           76327     76327 I   76327      4204       67"fi    763271
NET KKFIT                         1 -20413 k    106622     -5965      859M     1425121  146557    257M   I  IMH  1  $2915 1  15t' .,    177214    177214    IMIO               52915    1504DA'   177214 1
IVIT LEW16ROSS KVM            I                                   I                    1      22        22 1       22 1       22 1      22         22        22         22        22 I       22        22 1
FM    LAW        IVUT M    DAY    I                    I          I         I          I                               I                                                   i          i                    I
cwm                                     191,       102 i      93         69       I09 1.    It2         [so       113 1      123 I     107        Its i      113       lis 1.    123 '.    to?         III I
PLMTAIN                                  2         10 1       3                       I         I                               1.         I                              I          I
TOTAL M    DAYS          it 11      112        96         IR       109 1      112 1     130        113        123 1     107 1      113       113        lis        123       107        113
Wm        M IN                    i - 1 396V    L43822     23535    116166    IM12    1621571 296M             211114 1  69815 1 18222 1 211114 1 211114    211114             8980      162502    211114
sms M IN PR  a                         445 1    1294         291       I'45       1640      1624      2293       1869 1      730 1    1706 1    1066       IB69       1660 I      m        1706       1860
NET REIUINI M    AD                                952       -62        965 i    1307 1    1326        1983      IUD 1       436 1    106 11   1569        150  1    1560         410      1406       Ins
LOW l
cwm                                  103OU       51390     2315       34707 1   47043 1  48004       50346 1   4647 1  51385         470        48467     48467      46467     51365 I   4M          G467
PLWAIN                                1000                                 11          I                               .1                                                                       It
TOTAL Low  ANM           1130U       513"      2250       34797 1  47043 1  48004I  50346           48467 1  51395 I   470   1   0467 1  40467           40467     510        47829 I   48467
14                   I                    16                  la         I          I          I         14                   a
VJKATIVE Lm                          101036 1  L 107641  107623I 234220' 30748 1                 1                               I                    I                    i
INIM T AT 151 01 CUt K            I         1   IMIS I   2739S        35133 1  46012 1           1          1                                                    10       10          I
M          K    I    7M   1    365111    166?         2409      35"                                                                                       I
I
LON OWNDIM  m    VEAR 4           1                                         1 4033321            1                               I          I         I
LM    TO IE RECDYM                  103419  1403131110. 171017015)
TOTIL COM    SOLD 11 15 WM             12.2  4slIANTIS  TM    51
LE" M toolKm                0    907
I/ IMMS got W LAMOR 07 TOM TM I AM 2
CFFECWG.Wi
12104189



AEI 5.01
Table 5.2.5
ARICLTL  DIVEUIFICATODN PROJECT
SMWLLN      EUT Fef I NA OF COFFEE
CUOOT CEDIS (BASE YEAR 1990
(IES PLUINI AD WPLAITINI
I    I    1   2    1   3    1    4    1   5    1   6    1   7    1   9    1   9    :   10    :   It    :   12    :  13    1  14    :  15-19
YIELD TNINA INLLEDS                o.0       o.0 I     0.02       0.41      0.61     0.1         1.21      0.9       0.5o       0.8:      0.9       0.9       0.9       0.5        0.8?      0.9
IMFLATI  I                         20         15:       t 1        t 10 1          o 1  1                 I                                   : I                 :          I 
INFLATIU  FACTOR                         1.200       1.3  0 11.516 1   1.470 1 1.637                                                                    I
PRICE CEDlITOu1 379509    455410 I 5237211 576093 1 633702 1 697073 :  697073 1 697073    697073    697fl73    697073    697073 I 697073 I 697073    697073    697073
BReSS IVENUE                                     2            230437    390221   557658 1 83387    627365 1 30536 1 557650    627365    627365    627365 1 349536 1 557659    627365
TOTAL CosT                      10131 1  79454    7IS9   1  100092    142295    160175    176049 1 1669    173456    156639    161669    106668    16166             173456    156639   1.61668
KENEF IT  EFORE K NM  LEYV             i                        t13345    237966    397494    660439    465690  175080    401019    465699    465698    46569S    17500   1401019    465699
IWUI LE"V                                                   I                       055571 129335       96251?   53473    955571    6251?           251:   96251:   53473:   9G557:   96252:
MET BENEFIT                                                    130345    237966 ? 311927    532104    369446    121607    315463    369446    369446    369446   121607    315463   7369446
INPUT LEVY6ROSS RIEE         :         i                    : :                        15    t 5            15:       15: IS:                        Is        15 :  is  215 :    15 :    is1
6s0s RIN                               2                                           359327    569404 1 419246  164907    357763    416946    416946    416846    177407    362863 1 416946
FW.¶ LAMINUR PIUTI I)              197       102?       93         6:       109       112 1      130:    t113        1231      107:       113?      113:      113:       223       107:         lIZ?
aRmSS      IN PER No                                                                 3203      45341    3710        1340 1    3344      3659      3689       36991    1442        3392      36699
NET RETUNPER MD                        :               :                        :   2795       4093       3269       9191    2949        3269-    3269       3269       9m9       2949      32691
Lull A1N1                       103036:   616:   31071:   52907:   70552            89173     92475    069023 1  943:   67851:   89023            89023:   09023      94393:   8751        69023
NINAL INTEREST RTE PA t             25?       20:        IS:       IS        IS:          I          :         I                              :         :  
CUMWLATIVE LOAN                 103036:  1l5916?  26933:  271374:  368849?                           :                   :          :              :               :         :
INTEREST N  C AIVE r                   1  23193      31040?   40706?   55327              1                    2         1 :  I
1C1   ET K             12900?    61,67       23301   3960?       58SI:           I         :         :
LOUIIIIST11    fEND YW4    :           :            :         :5096191                    :               I              1                    i :  :    :                    :
LOU TO K RECOVE                13a4737  (5 WWI 0.171017'I52
TOTAL KES SOLD 1b 15 lS ARSA    12.2  (STUTINS TEO  Sl
LEVY FEI ToIEAI                 1046 
CUFFIEEC1.1l
121019!



Om                                                                                               MSEI 5.0*
A6RIC*TULAk  D*YERSF*CAIIO** PROJECT                                                                             Table 5.2.6
SHAWIOLER COFFEE - RENAIIA*.TAT**5
ICED/HA)
YEAR0       0      YEAR1               YEN  2             YAR 3                TOTAL             YEAR 4              YEWl               9YEAR6              YEAR 7
111UNIT *lt          ITi    COSt      'UNIT     COST      *WU11    COST      :011*     COST      M*IT      COST     :UNIT    cost       Mil1   COST        WNJIT    COST        UNIT11   COST
inKRMDINB           MO             350*        0        0*         0        01        0        0*         0        0*        o         0 *       0        0*        0         0*        o        0 *        0        0:
arugt nuN   u              No             ;so:        0        0*         0     SW           0        01         0        0*        0      50 2         0        0:        0        0:         0        0*         0        0*
r*isIN                    ARNS N         350*        0        01        *0     300          0        0*         0        01        0     300:          0        0:        0        0*         0        0*         0        0*
tills  NiN2                 O             350         0        01         0       50~        0        0*         0        0i        0       50*         0        0*        0         01        0        0 *       0         01
cows cw  SWIN              a              35          0        0*         0        01        0        0i         0        0*        0         0:        0        01        0        0*         0        0 1       0         01
pruIND.s RU                 D       ~      5*         0        01        to     350          0        0*         0        0*       10     3500*         0        0*        0         0*        0        0 1       0         0*
rIANT(Ne             o             30*         0        0*        t0     3500:        0         0*        0        0*       20                   0        0*        0         0*        0        0*        0         0*
%M1116              N~~O           SW0         0        0*         0        0*        2       70:         0        01        2       700:        0        0:        0         0*        0        01         0        01
it ASMNE                   ND             150*        0        0*        20     7000*       20     7000*        21     7350*       61   21350:         I0     3500       I*0     1500 i        0     n5o0         10     no00*
1;rRIp U1O*U               a              3501        0        0:        36    *2600:       36    12600*        16    12600       *01 700*SM           12     4200:       12     4200*        12     4200*        12     4200*1
PESTIMDISES  CUTOM          O             IS0O        0        0*         4     2400*        4      i400:        4     1400*        12    4200:         4     1400         4      2402*        4     2400*i       4      *400*1
NMINS               No~~R          350*        0        0*         2      700*        2       7001i       2      100*        6      2100:        2      100:        2       160:        2      ico:        2       1O0,
08*126                     NDo            350*        0         0*       20     7000        20      7000:       20     7000*       60    21000*        20     7000*i      20      7000        20     7000         20     1000*
"0P9*CIS                   HO             350         0         01       28     9800:        0         0i        0        01i      29     9800*         0        0*i       0         0*        0        0*       28     980
4ARWST*19                  ND             no0         0         0*        6     2*00*       *6     5600*        22     1700*       44    15100*        34    *1900*       34    11900*        34    *2900        2?      7700*i 
S*UB-TOTAL                                0        0*       *47    5*450*      *00    35000       105    16150*       352   219700:       62    20700:        92    29700*       92   28700*         9     34300* 
4ATERISL AHO EG*UIPIIET
.."liAUS so                DA            1070:        0        0*         4     4280*        0        0*         0        0*        4     42900         0        0*        0         0:        0        0:        4      4280*
rISL(SIM ISI               L66*                       0         0*        0        0:        0         0*        0        0*        0         0*        0        0:        0         0:        0        o*        o 
rOVRUNCMSSEE              a9              375:        A        0:         0        0:        0        0*         0        0*        0         0:        0        0*        0         0:        0        0 ~    0            o*
FERITLIZERS 120-10-20*     K6             *07         a        0 1      100    10700       1 00    *0700 *      00    10700 *     300    32100        to10   *0700       1 00    10700       too0   10700       too0   *0700 *
rtSTiUe  T11RIU1.          TREE            43*        '        01       350    *499101      35     *499          0        0*     3NS      64790         0        0*        0         0*        0        01        0         0*
SOALTOMRS102IOLAB COT VALUE                   *       0        0*               5245:              3500                3615*              119701              2870               2970:               297.                3430*
0ESTICIO                   Vs            2*40*        0        01         4    0560*         4    9560           I    8360         12  2568             4     8560         4     8560          4     6360         4      9560
NM  PEPTEO SPIAER          WIT1         19260*        0        0*         *    19260*        0        0*         0        0*        0        0*         0        0*        0        0*         0        u*        0        01
MISPM) m  mus                                  4~~~~~~0          420*              *24                 0121               3424*               25601              2569                2148:              1712*
308-VOIAL               0*              63133 *             2554?             ~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~24647 I  223542 *24699  24699 *24699                    2862 
toTl                                               0              2491                b052*              613971             213242 1            533"9               51339              53208               6292
-'OF F EECD. 80



AICULTON     D1lSIFICITIU PRlCT                                                             Table 5.2.6
S      ULL I COFWE - PIILITATIU
IT"llH*t
....... . ....._,..........._ . ........
YEA a              YE A R19          VW1 to             9 11 t             n    12            tE1   13           11  14              E3 15
... ----    .     . .......           .. .. ....         -.. ---            -------            .......      .     ... .......        ............
Ual      1t1      JUI11     COSU    :11311     WT       loll    CUST       1511      MST      1U11      cT        1IT      COT       :UMIT     1t       :UI tT COST
ttST     :                                                      I  I                I
...............----  -  ------------  --------- -__ ------- I---------------------. ----------------------------------------I-------------------......-------------------.......I------------------.......------------------ --w 
LAM ~~~~~~~~*II
t                                 :                  :                  t                  t                  :                  :                  :                   ::  1
----3-0n                                             0        0         0        0         0        01        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0          0        0:
SUEtugM                    a             350:        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        01        0         0         0        0
rE_uu                      fi s:                     0         1        a        0I        0        0I        0        0         o        o0        0        0e        o         e0        0        0
SfAU ,Mi       lo          E             350         0        0        0        01        0        0:        0        0:        0        01         0       0:         0        0         0        0
LtilnC                                   350*        0        0I        0        01        0        0:        0        0:        0        0         0        0          0        0o        0        0o
COR VWF sols               n: 350                    o                  0        o         o 0      0         0        0         0        0          0       n:         0        0:        0        0:
DIIsHORLES                 N             3s          O 0                         0: 0  0: 0         0: 0               0: 0               0:         0        a                  0:        0        0;
PtLATIN                    N       o    3            o        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0:        0         0         o        o         0        o:
SdPRIU                     1             3I0         0        0         0        0         0        0o        0        0         0         0         0        0:        0        0:        0        0:
SLUASHIN                   NoD           30         to    IS0          20    350021       10    1500          0     350                3500e iS 3o50:                  10    ISo          20     3001
STRIP EEDIS                RE            350        12     4200:        22    4200        I?    42:           12    4200         12    Ilk%         12    4200         12    4200:        12    4200
KST M    DIhSEA   CTROL   ND             350         * 4   1400         4     2400         4     2400         4      1400        4       40o0        4     1400         4     1400         4     14001
MI%IE                      II;           350e        2       00         2      700:        2      Y00         2      7001         2      7001        2                         700  2  100:  2    700
PIMIEf                     ND            3501       20     700:        20    7000         20     7000        20       000 1      20     7000        20     7000n       20     70001       20     70o0
CWPIeCIM                   3L s50                    0        0         0        0         0        01        0        01        0         0o      28     98001         0        0:        0        0:
SESTIMS                    HE            350        34    12900 i      14    12900        34    11900        34    I1900 1      34   ll29o          22     7700        34    11900:       34    11900                   0
SO-TOTAL                                92    29700?       92    29700        02   29700         62    29700:       92    21700        99    14300        62    29100        0 2    29700)                  I
----- ---------                        ::                                                                          :::                                            
NATEIfRll AIl ESIiPIfEiT                                                                             I    
CHAIN SAt                  Dry          1070         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        01        0        0         4     4280          0        0        0 o)
FUELt (9I192I              L               61        0        01        0        0I        0        0        0        01         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
COVERCR085SEED             if            375         0        01        0        0         0        01        0        0         0         01        0        0         0        0         0        uL
FERlliEilS 120-10-10)    1c-             207 '    200   2l/00    1200    10700 '    100    10700    1200    10700               too     010        100    10100 '00 IQ0G 107o0   20700 1
PLATINS OIlERIAl.          7E             43         0        0         0        0         0       01        0        01        0         0:       0         0:        0        0:        0        01
SNIL tOOtS 1102 L\8 COST) VRL0t                            2870               2970               2870               2870               28701               3430 1             2870               2870
PESTICIDE                  II           2140         4    6560          4      501         4      580O        4    95t0          4    9560           4    9560          4    9560          4    8560
NM iOFERAOED SRAtER         IIi?       290           0        01        0        0?        0        0         0        0         0         01        0        01        0        01        0        0o
IRU     T RTNO SACkS                 0290/0I               25692 258825"                                            259668             25891               1712               2568               25b8
SUiB-TOTAI                                    24b998             2489               2489  2            24899              2489                2982               2469U              2469
101l.                                         53398 '            53998              5339Y:             533n:              533                62992              53398'              5399l
CP2FEEC9./
08t2t7tEY



GHANA                                                  ANEI 5.01
AGRICULTURAL D81ERSIFICATJIO  PROJECT                                  Table 5.2.7
SIWALHOLOER WDHET FOR I HA OF COFFEE
REHABILITATION
CONSTANT 1990 CEDIS
z    I    :    2    :    3    1    4      1    5      6            7       8    :     9    1   10
..   .   .I                    I                     ,         ,          I          I          I    .
YIELD TONSIHA                 :     0.1 i      0.3 1      0.4        0.6:       0.6        0.6:       0.4       0.6        0.6        0.6
PRICE CEDIITUN A/                269503 *                      ..                    i                                          t
GROSS REVENUE                 I   26`50 I  90951 1  107901  . 161702    161702   1 161702    107801 1  161702:  161702 1  161702
TOTAL COST                    :   99023      59044 '   61397       53398 1   53399:   533989    62982         53398      533S9      53398
BENEFIT SEFORE LOAN qPAYM.    -72073         21907 1   46404    109304    108304    108304          44919    109304    109304    108304:
LOAN REPAYHENT                      1      1 34310:   34310        34310                       :                     :
NET BENEFIT                   1  -72073    -12503       12094      73993:  109304:  109304          44619 1  100304    10930  '  109304:
BROSS NARGIN                      -23373 1   19897 1   43594:   98593 .  132904    137704:   69419    132904    13290i1   137704 1
FARNER LABOUR INPUT ilDl             147:       100:       105:       82:        92:        92:        99:        82:       02:        92:
GROSS MARGIN PEP NO           :    -159 1       199       415       1202       1621       1679 1      706 1    1621        1621   :  1679
NET RETURI  PER PD                  -496       -125 I      115 1     902 1    1321 1      1321 1      457       1321       1321      1321
LOA  YEAR I                   :72873:               :                     I I                   :                               :I
LOAN BEGINNIG YEAR            :          :   7933.9:           :          :         I            
INTEREST ATISI Dll CIIRRENT K:    54651             :                                                1         1          1     I
i                   I1                                                                           I      
A/ SOURCE: i0RO COINOITY PRICE FORECASTS DATED OCTOBER 19, 1989
CamFFEE".Xil
12105189



EalAm                                                                                                 Aul1o 5.01
AR8ICIURAI. OIVERSIFICATION PROJECT                                                                                  Tsble 5.3.1
SALLIOLER RU08E  - PLNTI#h
ICEDIIlA)
VEM                VER  I              YEAR 2                                 TE   I  CA8 4       ERR 5              TOTAL              YEN    6          0(  7-25
:UNIT    tail       Utu11    Cosi     3U11l    COST       :ustr    coSr      t1i1t    COST       :m11      COST      :UXf      Ctos7    31Ii    COST        1u01r     COST     1011     COST
:        COST      :                                      I
*~~~~~~                                                                                                                                               ~        ~~                  ~~                 ~~~~ 4  I  :  :   
IAPNEP^AMTIU                    :a             357:        60    210001        0        0          0        o         e 0      0          o 0      0         0        01        60    11000         0         0e        0        0
dlININ                         I'0             35)1         4      4001        0        0o         0        0o        0        01         0        0         0        0          4     14001        0         0o        0        0
DIEIS HttLES                   :1              351:        10 3to    0:        0        01         0        0:        0        0:         0        0:        0        0:        '0     3500:        0         0:        0        0
fthilEl                          uoD           357         12     4200:        0        0          0        01        o         0         0        0         0         0        12     4200         0         0         0        0
SwUIm PUERARIA                  :D             750          I      3501        0        0:         0        0:        0        0:         0        0:        0        0I         1      30          0         0I        0        0
WE1101G                         'ND            35S:        20    7J0:         54    II900:        16    12600:       20     7000 1       20       oQ00      2i      70001      170    59500:        Il6    56001       l      5600.
iEPLIcENENCS                    :1O            350:         0        ct        2      700          0        0        0         0         0        0         (,       0Q         2      700         0         0o        0        0
FERTILIlING                     :MD            35:.         2      700         4     1000          4     14001        3      1050:        3     10501        3      1050 !       9     6650         0         01        0        0
PR0I0GI                          :D0           73)1         2      70(0        1      :050:        3     lsol         I      o5o          0        0         0         0o        I     3s0          a         01        0        0
siMaULAN                        X              3 5 17:      0        01        0        0:         0        0:        0        0:         0        0:        0        01         0        0:        5      1750:        5     I75
;APPJSI EhUIPIENT               IID                        0         I         0        0         0         0o        0        0          0        0o        0        0          0        0:       56  19600           56    IR96
IREE SANIIAIION                 :ND            35t:        0                   0        0o         0        0         0        0o         0        0         v        0          0        0 o                 0         0        0
tir0ER                          :0o            ;3f.         2      7001        2       7001        2      7001        2       700         2      70":        2       700        12     4200 1        1      0501        3     1050
SUBTOTAL                                   W     31550         65    22'50        45    15750         2e     yso00       25      750s        25     87501      301   105350:        80    28000       8g    28000   o
: ~      ~         ~        ~         ~        ~          ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         ~~~~ .  , :  :  :        
£EUIPIEPT RAD MRIERIALS         1
sTiUNs'S                        1111           21:1       500   101000        25     5350          0        0                  0          0        0         0         0 1    525   112350:         0         01        0        0
PUE1PIAR SEEH                   36             3,15       1o      3745         0        0          0        0                  0          0        0         0        0Q        10     3745         0         0         0        0
FEPTILISER                      106            li7        100    10700       200    21400        200    21400       300    32100        300    32100       300    32100       1400   149900         o 0       0         0        0
ShiP.ah                        .196           64eo'                  0                 01         0        01                 0:         0        0:        0        0:         0        01        0      4800         0.    4100
1TPINS rtERIAt                  V E                i                01                  01        0         01                 01        0         01        0        01         0        0:        01 0000             0     5200
IREE SMIAIIUNTEPIAL             WALUE                                0                  01        0         01                 0         0         0         0        0          0        0:        0     2140:         0     2ll0
OTHER ISILL IOOS I tOIOLAMU                                       P 355s             2275:               1575:               91O         0      85 I        0      85                10535         0      1400         0     1400
SUBTOTAL        i                                2S1001              29025              22975               33000              32975               32975             276430               383401              13540
TOTAL                                     1 649571            51775              r387z               4280                41725              41725              393780 I             66340              41540
0812E38.PI



AEl 5.01
Tabls 5.3.2
mm
4IRIW11ILU DIWRSIFICATIIU  FUIECT
"'U
FIMI IAL U   ECUUIC PRICE
MDS COUTANIT PICES
FINANCIAL                       ECWNOIIC
t  IS90   1 1995   :  2000   t   1990   I 19S9     1 2000          1
-    --------------------------------- I---------~~~~~ 41- -- - -I - - - -  --------   :--------
CIF SPOT REM YOX (RS611C/t6 A18   I 106.00 I  137.95     136.51 ::  106.00 1 137.95 1  13b.51
DISCDUNT FOR TW20                       10.00 :   10.00 O        10.00:11    0.0 I   10.00   10.00
DiSCOi!iUTE  PRICE                         6.00    127.95 t 126.51 J    96.00  1127.95    126.51:
FREG6HT I INSURANCE                  :   10.00     10.00      10.00 :1   10.00 1   10.00 1   10.00
*. CIF TrIAORADI C16                 :  96.00 f  117.95    116.51  :   96.00 1  117.95 1 116.51
b. FOB TAKORADI CEDMIMS6               313.0 1 430.52    425.26  1  313.90    430.52 1 425.26
*         .         :          1:         :          *         I:
c. INIAD COSTS                      :          :         :          ::         1         :
PORT NlUIDlt6                       7. S     10.76   110.63         7.95      10.76   10.63 1
PORT CHNAR1E                                        I                               1    
TRNSPORTIPLANIT TO PORT)       t    5.00      5.00 1    5.00 t    5.00 1   5.00 1   5.00 1
SU19OTO1          J   12.35 1   15.76 1   15.63 :    12.95 1  15.76 1   15.63 t
d. PROCESS116 COSTS                    30.00      30.00     30.00 I    30.00      30.00 1  30.00:
*ItS                      *9 I51
e.  AIKETISG COST                  :  29.19       40.04     39.55 11  29.19 I  40.041   39.55 1
*         S         41                         I     S 
f. NDIIN ON INVESTRTlt              :  50.00:   50.C00       50.00 :   50.00 I  50.00 1  50.00
9. TOUAL COSTS 0C.044E1F            I  122.04 1 135.90:  135.19 t:  122.04 1  135.80 1 135.18:
:         I         I          11         1          I         1
h. SCF (0.93)                                            I          It 113.50 1  126.29 1  125.721 
I         I          I         XI         I               I 
i. FARNGATE PRICE                   1 191.86 I294.72 1 290.06 1  200.40 1 304.22 1 299.54
A/ SO11RCE: I1RD CO0lI9TY PRICE FOECASTS OCTOER 19, IM.
91 R1B8tR IRSS NO.X 1K BALES, SPOT EN YORK.
RUBBERPRICE.W1I1
12104/89



IIEI 5.01
Table 5.1.3
AUIEUTtiL  DIWSIF1CATIU PRWECT
WlMLOLR  Mll SEFE I VA OF 3 9R
Eu PLANTING
cuistai 1990 aCl$
--------- -------
0        I        2         3 2                5 3                               I   9 S : 1    10 1 1  It   :  12  I3       1        4    115-20 
-  --------------_ -.. -------.----- I-------_-.-__ _ _--------    ---:--- I- ----  -------.. -   - ---------     -----:-- ----I --- -   :-----  :-----  :-----  :---   -: - ----
YIELDlm IUH                                   I                  i :  :                   0.3 2    0.6;    0.:         10       1.1       1.3      1.4       1.4       1.4 1    1.4
6toSS fVEE                          I2        :                  f                  2  87024   17404 1 23241I 29 0   1190              377164   4061121 406112    06112 1 40612:
TOTrALeast                    164950    517752   33725:   42802   417m2       41725    66346    415402   415401  41540    41540    41540 3  41540    415401   41s401   41540
KIEIT EFOE INPUTLEVY                          I                            I            20684   132506   110524  24654   2775t S1 33556 413572   364572 1  364572 345722
INPUl LEVY                                                                 i                       A11*   ,¶S79'  9O407A  1071S:  I2ta30 1 13070  1 136370    I370   B3At70
T  KtFIT                                                :1 :                            2064    74064 11125S    1511331 270400 1200934   228202   22S202  226202  2222022
INPIITLEVY/SIOSSRV EIE I                                         I :                                34        34       342       342      342       342        4       -A        34
:   :   :   :   :         :        :         z        :         :         :        :         :        :         :        t         X~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  I  .
GROSG S                    22                                    2 I                    44664    90641  I269    175t33    94400   2329342  252202   252202   252202   252rsi I
FARNC tL_o   INPUtr If1          113       65        451      29        252      25;                Bet0      go        902      60f        61      60 2           602t0         92O
O5M  minS uPR N o                                                                   I    S592    1226       1707      2169     2430      2912     3153      31532    ;153      !t531
IETREITURNI RPER N o                                                                      2592     926      1407:    1669      2130 2    2612     29532    2853:   2853        :   X31331
LOAN IUIT 1                : 1554&!'   40400    1802   33060    32175    32975    39340:   13540:   13540    13540    13540    10    13540I                 250:   53540    135402 
CUsI*r1VE LoA                 1556)   :bb&92   235122    305559   384653   477800   5 594918 I         2         1                  :         :        2         :
INTEEST AT 15Z ON NCI  K r              25004    352692   455:4    5769B    71670    97739             2 I                                                       :                  :
E CURRNIY :  11560       1030      2314      24852    2473?    2473      26762 I                 :         :       .                                       : 
LOAN  WSISDINT END rEAR B                                                              71Xtl                               1 i
LON  fS   A K IIE RUE1D    - 10Y 12M1  17271397521?2012
PU1ER SCLD tN 15 YEARS    =   1B.80  lslaRlNS lEAR T1
LEVY PER TON               -  97707
I/ INCLUOS LOAN FOR 751 CF LAW   COST FOR YEaR 1, AND 50l FOR TM  2 AM  3.
PUBBER10.11I
12V04/99



KwA                                                            AlIt  5.01
MRICuLTURAL DIVERSIFICATIU PRWECT                                           table 5.5.4
SNALLHOLOER 133 FOR IRICFER MNFEMERccUED
cNslRTA 1990 CEDIS
e    :    I        2          3        4               I         :   7         8                        '-  I         2-20I
YIELD  IEIHM            I              I              1         I                                    b 0     0.:       1.0:  i .1:         I.        1.4:
SUEL                      I IMI                                                       I    01 I I    I      I       1     1.          1       1.I       .
REffEI   a Qs9oes       :                             I:S024 1 I?4Ms I 2no64 I 27wso   317088   n7104   406012
MIIE
VIELD e.EtHN                 0.9        0.9
rlENUE * C400I               32000    320001 
PLARTAIN                                        I                   1                   1 I
YIELD Jt3NIIRR                          3s0       loe           :
rEVEEEICS cos1 H               e *:  1750e    soeo              I
TOTAL REVEUE  1  32000   207000:   500o             0         o          0o  97024   174040   232064   2900O6   329 :   77104   406112:
COST 
RUERItA                        164950     51775     38725    426010   41725      41725      66340     41540    41540    41540:  41540     41540        41540
NAIZE/23                        34150     14750           1                              
PLTAINIA                    :600           3000:    90 : 
TOTAL COST        195700    69525 I  39625    42880    41725        41725    66340      41540     41540 1  41540    41540    41540        41540
sKEFIT 0EFORE INPUT LEVIY   -163700    137475   10375   -4290   -41125    -43125           20684   132509    190524 1 248540    277548  135564    364572
INPUT TEVV                  :                   I         I                                         5844       7792  :974017   107146    126630    136370
MET KNEFII                    -163700    137475     10375   -420901 -41725I -41725          20684     74064  1133259     151133    170400    2069341 229202
INPUT LEVVI5SS REVENII 7           0:        o         C       ERR       ERR       ERR         0        34        ;4        34        34        34:       54:
EAILRDR3P3TIUDT :              :         :           :         :                 :         :         :         :        :         :         :         : 
fAIM LAeR INPUT MM DAY                                                                            i
RUOHR                          1 33          65        45        29       25        25        e0        80        so:       sl        seo       so        so
RIZE                        1       030       01                                                                                1.
PMtAIIIR                           20        to i       3                                                                       I
TOTAL MDAYSr              163      0os        48        28        25:       25:       80        80:       9e        90        9o        so        so
ROSS  ARSI1                 1 -114800  168975       24775   -34480    -3425    -34225      44684     9064   113659   1375133    19400    232934 125220l. 5
ROSS NhffI PER 21D               -704o      60       Sb:   -1231    -1369    -1369:          559:    3226:    1707:    21991    2430          2912 2;   3153
NET RETUR PER rD.               -10049     309        216     -153I   -16691   -69          259       926:   1307        29Is      2101    2bl2        2853b
tomabh:m: :                                   :         :         :             :         :              :         :         :              :         :
RUlER II                     155063    40400        30950 1  33080      32975     S2975   73340   13540        13540     13540     13540     1i3540    13540
MAIIE                          T5750   sis5
ANTAIR                      : oooo:                                                                        .                    I
TOTA.         :170912.5        s 46150  3085    MO6       32975    32975    38340       13540     13540    13540      1350   13540 1  13540
COIRJAIIVE LDO                 155063   16692b 1  235126   305591  3846531  477800   5049191 
INTEREST At Al351 ONCOW. t               25004     3526t    45554      576990:  71670      0 97738
ON C£METr t:   13630       ;O30      2314      241       2473     2473      2876:                                                  :
LOANl OTSTArDIes EIID YRER b                                                              713871
Lou  To ID   RECOVERED       1s39261  171397100.171017.15)
RUBBER SOLD IN Is YEARS         26.80  ISTARI1S YEAR 71
LEVY PER TON                    97407
I/ INLCur3ES LOAl FOR 751 OF LR1  COST FOR YEAR I, AN9 502 FOR YEARS 2 MD 3.
RUBIPG.03
12/04189



GaNA                                                                              AINEI 5.01
ASRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT                                                              table 5.3.5
SKALULHOLER BJDGET FOR I HA OF RUBBER
CURRENT CEDIS (BASE YEAR 1990)
(NEW PLAHNTIN)
0          1    I      2    I   3    1   4          5         &     1    7         a     1 9           10    I   11       1 2       13 1         14       1-0
-- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -  -- - --  - -- - -- I - -- -- -I- -- - --11-- - -- - 1-- -- - - 1   - -- --   1 -- - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -I- - - - - - --- - - -- - --- - - --  ------ -
YIELD KG/HA                          0          0         0         01l        0 i       01       0.3 1     0.6        0.9       1.0        1.1I      1.3 1     1.4        1.4 1     1.4        1.9
INFLATION I                  i      201        15        t0:       10 1       t0o        10to1 
INFLATION FACTOR             1             1.200 ; 1.380 1 1.519 1   1.670 1 1.837 1                            Ii                                                             1
PRICE CEDI/TON               I29000    348096 1400310    440341 1494376 1532913 1 532813 1532813 1532813 1 532913    532913 1532913 1532013 I 5328131   53293    532813 
GROSS REVENUE                i          I                   1          11 159944 I 319b99    426251     532913 I 596094 1703313 1745938 :745939    7459398   745938
TOTAL COST                   1164950 162130 153441 165092 169672 176640 1 121952 I  76300 1 76300 1  76300  1  76300 I   76300 1 76320 176300 1 76300 1   76300
BENEFIT BEFORE INPUT LEVYY 11                                                                   37992     2433938   349951 1 456513     509795    627014 I 669639 1       966939 I6b9639 I669b39
INPUT LEVY                                                  i                    1                        72791 1   97055 I  121319 I133451 1160141 I169846 1169846 1169946 1169846 
NET BENEFIT                  1                                                                  37992 1170597 1252996 1335195 !316344 14...'73 1499792 1499792 I 499792 1499792 
INPUT LEYVY/ROSS REVENUE?  I                                           i                                     231       213        211        23:       23        23 1       23        23         23:
GROSS KARSIN                                                                     i              61992 1  94597 1276996 1359195 1400344 1 490973     523792    521792    523792 1523792
FARMER LABOUR INPUT fflI           l 131       651       451        291       25:i       25 :      801        s0o       e:        g 80       g0o       901         o:       90o        00         0:
GROSS NARBIN PER MD                     I         :          1                                             2432 :    3461 : 4490 ;    5004:    61361    6547:    65471    6547:    6547:
NET RETURN PER OD            1                               1         I                              1   2132:       31611    4190 I   4704:    5936:1   62471I   6,2471           6247       6207
LOAN ANDiNT II                  155063 142675 133843 I   50215 155062 1605698    70422                    24870 124870         24970 124870 124870 124870 1 24867:  24Z70 1 24970
NONINMLINTEREST RATE PA? I          251        20:       151        15 i      151i      151        151                                                                                     
COMIILATIYE LOAN             1155063 I174445 1256277    331099 I434746 : 559149 1709131                          11111
INTEREST ON CUNULATIYE k                   348991   39442'     49665 165212          9 3972    106220                      1:::
ON CURRENT t        1 193931       42698      2519:    3766:      4130:    45431    5292 1                                            11
LDMNOUTSTANDING END YEAR 6              1                                                      9900551                                                                          
LOAN TO BE RECOYERED           2293219  (990055'O.171017.l5)
RUBBER SOLD IN IS YEARS           19.9  ISTARTING YEAR 71
LEVY PER TON/RUBBER          *121319
If INCLUDES LOAN FOR 75? OF LABOUR COST FOR YEAR 1, AND 50? FOR YEARS 2 AND 3.
RUDBBERCU.U119
12/04/09



- 91 -
GHANA                                        ANNEX 6.02
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Intermediate Technology Small-scale Palm Oil Mill
('000 Cedis)
Year                           1        2        a         4        5           6        7
Annual capacity In tons        1584     1584      1584     1684     1584     1684     1584
Capacity ut' izatton X           30       60       70        70       70       70       70
Fruit volume In tons            476      950      1109     1109     1109     1109     1109
Processing fees                1901     3802     4436      4436     4436     4436     4436
Investment costs              12900
Operating costs:
Direct labor                    1ss      185       1ss      1ss      1ss      1ss      1ss
Management                      250      250      250       250      2S0      260      260
Other labor                     192      192      192       192      192      192      192
Other personnel costs            94       94       94        94       94       94       94
Office expenses                 121      121      121       121      121      121      121
General expenses                220      220      220       220      220      220      220
Fuel                             46       95      111       111      111      111      111
Maintenance                      80       30       30        30       0o       S0       so
costs s-total         14039     1187     1203     1203      1203     1203     1203
NET CASH FLOW                -12139     2815      8233     3283     3238     8233     3233 IRRX           14
Higher oil extrn. tons           19       38       44        44       44       44       44
Additional benefit             3079     6169     7185      7165    7186      7188     7188
OVERALL CASH FLOW             -9059     8773    10418    10418    10419    10419    10419 IRR%           104



GHANA                                  ANX60
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT                 ANNEX 5.08
PINEAPPLE CROP BUDGET
PER HA
Year                         1       2        a
'00OC.dls
Export sales                         8925     8926
Local Sales                           270      270
Suckers                                        320
s-total                  9196     9616
INVESTMENT COSTS
Land clearing                126        0        0
Ploughing and harrowing       18        0        0
Lining and pegging             9        0        0
Sortlng,dipping,planting.    aS         0        0
Planting material            600        0        0
Access track                 500        0        0
Store                        500        0        0
s-total         1786        0        0
OPERATING COSTS
Land lease                    10       10       10
Salaries                      13       13       13
Spraying weedicides            2        2        0
Fertilitjr application         3        3        0
Manual weeding                26       26        0
Forcing                        6        8        0
Plant census                   2        2        0
Insecticide application        1        1        0
Gouging crowns                 0        5        6
Ethrel spraying                0        4        4
Harvesting and crating         0       30       30
Loading and hauling            0        4        4
Packing                        0       50       50
Fertilizer: K2S04             91       91        0
AS                19       19        0
Fungicide                      7        7        0
Weedicide                     27       27        0
Calcium carbide                0       10       10
Ethrel                                 23       28
Packaging                             875      876
Local transport                        90       90
Air freight                          3670     3670
Marketing, handling,etc              2040     2040
s-total       208     6907     6724
IRR
NET CASHFLOW               -1991     2288     2791        89X



A6FICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
(cash flows in sillion cedisi
oil Palm "OA       ITSFH    COCOBOD  Coffee   Coffee   Coffee   Coffee                 Rubber   Hortcltr P'apple               Total    Total    Net
Project  GOPD6    Outgrwr  ITSPM    lilling  Devot    Rehab    Rehab    Planting Planting 6REL             Outgrwr  Devpt    6rower   PCU         EEon      Econ      Econooic
Year     Costs    Benefits Cests    Eenefits Costs    Costs    Benefits Costs    Benefits Costs    Benefits Costs    Benefits Costs    Costs    Benefits Benefits
I           0                  59                 102                                             130                 299                 19       609         0     -609
2          55                 144       -45       197       19         6        22         0        73                290        57         6      796        19      -779
3         292                 429       -46       156       39        25        54         0      123                 209       129         6     1309       107    -1201
4         331                 443        50       72        65        5?       119         0      103                  61       199         6     1200       308      -892
5          186        0       439       154        71      105       166       163        32       76                  25       270         6     1071       622      -449
6          151        0       294       259        91       91       253       211       111       93                  33       342         6      960       964         4
7           99      289       210       362        89       79       308       191       294       111                 26       413        19      803      1656       B53
B           93      409                 459                 77       339       203       537       44                           494                417      2228      1911
9           99      506                 460                 78       331       229       830        44        9                 555                449      2691      2242
tO         101       554                 364                 79       373       250      1158       47        34                 627                477      3110     2633
11          101      620                 260                  90      356       253      1222       50        87                                    494      2545      2061
12          101      665                 156                 65       356       255      1176       52       159                                    473      2512      2039
13          101      676                  52                 50       274       248      1048       54       245                                    453      2295      1942
14          lot      b67                                     30       164       249      1049       47       320                                    426      2219      1793
Is         101       698                                                        245     1158        47       390                                    393      2236      1943
16         101       698                                                        248     1149        47       431                                    396      2279      IB2
17         101       695                                                        250      1067       47       467                                    399      2232      1934
19  '       101      699                                                        249      1049       47       494                                    397      2240      1943
19          10      699                                                        249      1048       47       503                                    397      2249      1852
20         Jo!       699                                                        244      1195       47       503                                    392      2396      2004
21          101      687                                                        230      1149        47      503                                    379      2339      1961
:2         101       676                                                        197       995       47       503                                    345      2164      1919
23           .1"     665                                                        131       656        47      503                                    279      1924      1545
24          101      665                                                         66       329       47       503                                    214      1496      122
25          !(I1     642                                                                            47       503                                    149      1145       997
IRR2     23.12132                 t  X
f4lerame:0letr
0.1]y 17 !9*0! )                                                                                                                                                                                 °



Page  4 o 3
GHANA
AGRICl'LTURAL  DlI'ERSIFICATION  PROJECT
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
P.ToY      UP lOt        UP 20Z       UP 50t    DN IOt    M     20t 1       O   50S  LAO 1 Yf   LAG 2 EMAG 3 TEMs
TOT              23.121       25.344       27.447       33.203       20.757        18.219        8.921       19.226       16.503       14.476
jp 10             20.979       23.121       25.147       30.678       18.69        16,237         7.138       17.514       15.068       13.235
JP 202             19.0817      21.162       23.121       20.460        16.870       14.478        5.518       1M.918       13.t71       12.118
Pi 501             14.478       16.407       18.219       23.121       12.402       10.141         1.322       12.211       10.565        9.310
0ow 1t0            25.583       27.901       30.097       36.117        23.121       20.34        10.919       21.170       18.122       15.868
2IOw 201           29.460       30.894       33.203       39.540        25.880       23.121       13.200       23.414       19.976       17.455
DUN  501           41.494       44.485       47.332       55.187        38.334       34.972       23.121       33.225        7.906       24.144
LAGI YEAR                                                -                   -            -            -       23.121       19.226       16.503
LA6 2 YEARS              -            -            -            -                         -             -                   23.121       19.226
,AG3YE                   -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -      23.121
SWTI CHINS VALUES AT 13.52
APPRAISAL    SVITCHINS    PERCENTAGE
STREAM                   VALUE         VALUE         CHANGE
M.O0T                8'316.69       5.277.83        -36.542
C..TT                5,277.83      9t316.69          57.58Z
Net Present Value at OCC 13,5t : 3.038.t
Internal Rate of Return z 23.12
CouFon Eauivalent Rate of Retumr  22.1Z



- 95 -
Annex 6.04
Pase a of 3
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CASH FLOWS
1.    OIL PALM
Costs,       ¢OPDC costs as derived from Annex 4.01 Table 1 with application of SCF 0.93.
With management contract costs pro-rated at 30 percent to this program and
balance to acreage already planted and being managed by GOPDC.
Benefits:   Net benefits accruing to outgrowers as derived from Annex 6.01 Table 5.1.3 on the
basis of a planting program of 3,600 ha over 4 years.
2. COFFEE
Costs:       COCOBOD costs as derived from Annex 4.01, Table 1.  CRIG costs of research are
not included as benefits are not expected to accrue within the project time-
frame. SCF of 0.93 is applied.
Benefits:   Net benefits accruing to 1,600 ha rehab iitated and 3,000 newly planted/replanted
derived from Annex 6.01, Tables 6.2.3 and 6.2.7.
3. RUBBER
Costs:       GREL costs as derived from Annex 4.01, Table 1.  Cost of technical assistance
*pplied at 30 percent as project is first of its kind and the technical
assistance would normally benefit a much larger acreage than proposed under the
program. SCF 0.93 io used.
Benefits:   Net benefits accruing to 1,200 ha planted by outgrowers derived from Annex 6.01,
Table 6.3.3.
4. HORTICULTURE
Costs:       All CEPC costs as derived from Annex 4.01, Table 1 included.  Horticultural
Technical Advisory Unit costs taken at 60 percent as benefits included are those
for pineapples only. SCF 0.93 is applied.
Benefits:   Incremental tonnages of pineapples expected assumed to be project induced are at
40 percent of exports in PY2 and 60 percent thereafter in the following tonnage
per year: 1000, 2260, 3500, 4760, 6000, 7260, 8600, 9760, and 11000. Net benefit
per ton is 57,000 cedis as derived from Annex 6.03.
S. OTHERS
(a)   All PCU costs included with SCF 0.93 applied.
(b)   No ADB benefits directly accruable and thus not included in ERR calculations.
(c)   Rubber Advisory Unit costs and benefits are not included as extension is normal
governmental activity with benefits accruing sector-wide.
(doc. name: n604b)
(29 Aug. 1990)



- 96 -                          Annex 6.01
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
A.   Working Papers
1.   Rationale for an Agricultural Diversification Project - The Case
for Tree and Selected Horticultural Crops.
2.   Estimates of Palm Oil Demand in Ghana.
3.   Project Costs:  Financial and Economic
-    Ghana Export Promotion Council
-    Horticulture Technical Advisory Unit
-    COCOBOD Coffee Rehabilitation and Planting
-    COCOBOD Coffee Research
-    GOPDC Phase 3 Outgrower Development
-    Intermediate Technology Palm Oil Mills
-    Rubber Advisory Unit
-    Rubber Outgrower Development
-    Agricultural Development Bank
-    Project Coordination Unit
B.   Other Supporting Documents
1.   FAO/CP         -    Tree Crops Project Preparation Report
2.   FAO: G. Blaak  -    Project Appraisal Report for the Ghana Tree
Crops Project in Respect of Small Scale Palm
Oil Milling
3.   IRHO           -    Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation,
Phase 3 Survey Report
4.   TechnoServe    -    The Involvement of Small Scale Farmers in
the Ghanaian Pineapple Export Market
5.   TechnoServe    -    The Establishment of a Palm Oil Processing
Training Center/Service Company and
Replication of Existing Mill in Ntinanko,
Ghana
6.   AMEC Inc       -    Ghana: Pineapple and Citrus Growing,
Processing and Marketing.



BURKINA  FASO
UPPER     Bolgota'gg    /            RAINFALL AND
UPPER  WEST          EAST                              ECOLOGICAL ZONES
REGi%/V                                     ,JJ
REGIONORHRN               REGION                                     - -
\-           ~~~N O R T H E R N  R E G I O N            >-    ~'
Tomale
-Domongo                                   (
COTE    \\\&gssw                                           5      z 
00
D'IVOIRE\          a                              -
Ateb.o.
BRONG - AHAFO   REGION
~ g  /  A S H A N TI        /                      >
I / Q~~~~ E G I  O N ;  
j          REGION    2  EASTERN
..  - X  <  /       REGION       '
*s  W E S T E R N                              _> ><  /GREATER
ACCRA---
C   N TR                               A EGIO
Axm-         Toko-od;  4
NsOVEt.bER Qc8



