Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2180 GH
                       Development Credit Agreement
                  (Agricultural Diversification Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated December 21, 1990
                          CREDIT NUMBER 2180 GH
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated December 21, l990, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
       (b)   Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by
Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPDC), Ghana Cocoa Board
(COCOBOD) and Ghana Rubber Estates Limited (GREL), respectively,
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to GOPDC, COCOBOD and GREL part of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Association, GOPDC,
COCOBOD and GREL, respectively;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
       Section l.Ol. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
       Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires,  the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)   "GOPDC"  means  the  Ghana  Oil  Palm Development
Corporation,  a statutory corporation established under  the
Statutory Corporations Act 1964 (Act 232) of the Borrower;
       (b)   "COCOBOD" means the Ghana Cocoa Board, established by
the Borrower pursuant to the Ghana Cocoa Board Law, 1984;
       (c)   "GREL" means the Ghana Rubber Estates Limited;
       (d)   "GOPDC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and GOPDC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the GOPDC Project Agreement;
       (e)   "COCOBOD Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and COCOBOD of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the COCOBOD Project Agreement;
       (f)   "GREL Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and GREL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the GREL Project Agreement;
       (g)   "GOPDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and GOPDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the GOPDC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
       (h)   "GREL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and GREL pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time,  and such term includes all schedules to the GREL Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
       (i)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the GOPDC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the GREL Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
       (j)   "GEPC" means the Ghana Export Promotion Council;
       (k)   "ADB" means the Agricultural Development Bank;
       (l)   "ITSPM" means the Intermediate Technology Small-Scale
Palm Oil Mills;
       (m)   "CRIG" means the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana; and
       (n)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement,  an amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to twelve
Page  3
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
12,500,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule l to this Agreement for expenditures made (or,  if the
Association shall so agree,  to be made)  in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association,  including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment, namely:  (i) a special account (Special
Account GOPDC) for the purposes of Part A of the Project; (ii) a
special account (Special Account COCOBOD) for the purposes of Part
B of the Project;  (iii) a special account (Special Account GREL)
for the purposes of Part C of the Project;  and (iv) a special
account (Special Account GEPC) for the purposes of Parts D and E of
the Project. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;  and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the Association shall  reasonably request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing October 15,  2000,  and ending April 15,  2030.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15,
2010, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
       (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Page  4
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms  of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,  the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments,  the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
       (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph  (b)  above,  the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts D and E of the
Project through GEPC and ADB with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate agricultural,  administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts
D and E of the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement,
shall cause GOPDC, COCOBOD and GREL to perform,  in accordance with
the provisions  of  the  respective  Project Agreement,  all the
obligations of GOPDC,  COCOBOD and GREL, respectively, therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
necessary or appropriate to enable GOPDC, COCOBOD and GREL,
respectively, to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
       (b)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Credit:
             (i)    relend, for purposes of Part A of the Project, an
                    amount equivalent to SDR 3,100,000 to GOPDC under
                    a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
                    between the Borrower and GOPDC under terms and
                    conditions which shall have been approved by the
                    Association and which shall include:  (A)
                    interest at a variable rate equal to the average
                    rates paid by primary banks for term deposits,
                    repayment over thirty (30) years and the foreign
                    exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower; and
                    (B) the terms and conditions pursuant to which
                    GOPDC will manage the oil palm outgrowers program
                    on behalf of the Borrower;
             (ii)   relend, for purposes of Part C of the Project, an
                    amount equivalent to SDR 1,800,000 to GREL under
                    a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
                    between the Borrower and GREL under terms and
                    conditions which shall have been approved by the
                    Association and which shall include:  (A)
Page  5
                    interest at a variable rate equal to the average
                    rates paid by primary banks for term deposits,
                    repayment over thirty (30) years and the foreign
                    exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower; and
                    (B) the terms and conditions pursuant to which
                    GREL will manage the rubber outgrowers program on
                    behalf of  the Borrower;
             (iii)  make available,  for purposes of Part B of the
                    Project, an amount equivalent to SDR 2,300,000 to
                    COCOBOD as an equity contribution; and
             (iv)   make available,  for purposes of Part E of the
                    Project, an amount equivalent to SDR 530,000 to
                    ADB as an equity contribution.
       (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under  the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
       Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
       Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause ADB to employ, not
later  than December 31,  l990,  a qualified and experienced
agronomist for the purpose of appraising pineapple and other
horticultural projects.
       Section  3.04.  The Borrower,  through its Ministry of
Agriculture, shall enter, not later than June 30, 1991, into an
agreement satisfactory to the Association with a non-governmental
organization acceptable to the Association for the implementation of
the ITSPM sub-component under Part D.4 of the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts D and E the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
Parts D and E of the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to  in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                    the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                    principles consistently applied,  by independent
                    auditors acceptable to the Association;
             (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                    but in any case not later than six months after
                    the end of each such year,  a certified copy of
                    the report of such audit by said auditors,  of
                    such scope and in such detail as the Association
                    shall have reasonably requested; and
             (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                    concerning said records,  accounts and the audit
                    thereof as the Association shall from time to
                    time reasonably request.
Page  6
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                    with paragraph (a)  of this Section,  records and
                    accounts reflecting such expenditures;
             (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                    Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                    year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                    Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                    invoices, bills,  receipts and other documents)
                    evidencing such expenditures;
             (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
             (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                    of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                    auditors as to whether the statements of
                    expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                    together with the procedures and internal
                    controls  involved in their preparation,  can be
                    relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
       Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   GOPDC, COCOBOD or GREL shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the respective Project Agreements.
       (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that GOPDC, COCOBOD or GREL will be
able to perform its obligations under the respective Project
Agreements.
       (c)   The legislative instruments establishing GOPDC, COCOBOD
or GREL shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
GOPDC, COCOBOD or GREL to perform any of their obligations under the
respective Project Agreements.
       (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of GOPDC,  COCOBOD or GREL or for the suspension of its operations.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower, and
       (b)   the events specified in paragraphs  (c) and  (d)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions,  to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
Page  7
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreements
have been duly authorized or ratified by GOPDC, COCOBOD and GREL,
respectively,  and are legally binding upon GOPDC,  COCOBOD and
GREL, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
       Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01.  The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03  of the General
Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specificed for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             PNDC Secretary for Finance
               and Economic Planning
             Ministry of Finance and
               Economic Planning
             P.O. Box M40
             Accra, Ghana
             Cable address:                   Telex:
             ECONOMICON                         2205 MIFAEP GH
             Accra
       For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                   Telex:
                    INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT)
                    Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America,  as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                    By /s/ Joseph L. S. Abbey
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
Page  8
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated            % of
                                 (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category                  SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Part A
(l)  Civil works                     870,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     and 90% of local
                                                     expenditures
(2)  Planting                      1,170,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     and 90% of local
                                                     expenditures
(3)  Goods                           230,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures and
                                                     85% of local
                                                     expenditures
(4)  Consultants'                    750,000         100%
     services and
     training
Part B
(5)  Civil works                     120,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     and 90% of local
                                                     expenditures
                                 Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated            % of
                                 (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category                  SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Planting                        180,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures and
                                                     90% of local
                                                     expenditures
(7)  Goods                         1,010,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures and
                                                     85% of local
                                                     expenditures
(8)  Consultants'                    720,000         100%
     services and
     training
Part C
(9)  Civil works                      50,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     and 90% of local
                                                     expenditures
(10) Planting                        700,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     and 90% of local
                                                     expenditures
Page  9
(11) Goods                           110,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     and 85% of local
                                                     expenditures
(12) Consultants'                    950,000         100%
     services and
     training
                                 Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated            % of
                                 (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category                  SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Parts D and E
(13) Civil works                   1,170,000         100% of foreign
                                                     and 90% of local
                                                     expenditures
(14) Goods                           700,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures and
                                                     85% of local
                                                     expenditures
(15) Consultants'                  2,340,000         100%
     services and
     training
(16) Unallocated                   1,430,000
                                  __________
          TOTAL                   12,500,000
                                  ==========
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
       (c)   the term "planting" means expenditures for seedlings,
agro-chemicals, a proportion of labor costs for land preparation and
planting, and maintenance of the trees until the end of the first
year of harvesting.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above,  no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
       (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
       (b)   payments for expenditures under Categories (l), (2), (3)
and (4) unless:
             (i)    GOPDC has furnished to the Association a model
                    outgrower  agreement  satisfactory  to  the
                    Association; and
             (ii)   the GOPDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
                    executed on behalf of the Borrower and GOPDC and
                    the  Association has  received  an  opinion
                    satisfactory  to  the  Association of  counsel
                    acceptable to the Association showing that the
                    GOPDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
                    executed by the Borrower and GOPDC and is legally
Page  10
                    binding upon the Borrower and GOPDC in accordance
                    with its terms;
       (c)   payments for expenditures under Categories (5), (6), (7)
and (8)  unless COCOBOD has  inserted a statement in mass-circulating
Ghanaian newspapers inviting private organizations or individuals to
register with COCOBOD for the purposes of engaging in the
purchasing, hulling or export of coffee; and
       (d)   payments for expenditures under Categories  (9), (lO),
(ll) and (12) unless the GREL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and GREL and the Association has
received an opinion satisfactory to the Association of counsel
acceptable to the Association showing that the GREL Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and GREL and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and GREL in accordance with its
terms.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are to assist in revitalizing
and expanding the cultivation of non-cocoa tree crops and
horticultural crops within the framework of an agricultural
diversification strategy.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      Oil Palm Development
1.     Planting of about 3,500 ha of high-yielding oil palms,
including technical and management assistance by GOPDC to outgrowers
therefor.
2.     Resurfacing of about 90 km and construction of about 30 km of
feeder roads in the oil palm growing areas.
3.     Training of GOPDC staff.
4.     A study on possible sale of outgrowers'  loans by GOPDC to
local financial institutions.
Part B:      Coffee Development
l.     Supply of improved planting materials and provision of
extension advice by COCOBOD to small coffee farmers for the
rehabilitation of about 1,500 ha and new planting of about 3,000 ha
of coffee farms.
2.     Improvement of CRIG's coffee research through acquisition of
field and laboratory equipment, vehicles and training.
3.     Coffee-related training for COCOBOD staff.
Part C:      Rubber Development
1.     Development and implementation of an outgrower scheme for
1,200 ha of rubber cultivation.
2.     Training of GREL staff.
Part D:      Horticultural Development and Small-Scale Processing
1.     Development and dissemination of technical packages for the
production of export pineapples and other horticultural exports.
2.     Strengthening  of GEPC's marketing capabilities for
horticultural products.
Page  11
3.     Improvement of the infrastructure for horticultural exports,
including resurfacing of about lOO km of feeder roads in the
pineapple growing areas.
4.     Establishment and operation of about 60 intermediate
technology small-scale palm oil mills,  including fractionation
facilities, and resurfacing of about 120 km of feeder roads.
5.     Construction and operation of a small-scale model artisanal
smoked sheet rubber processing unit, including provision of rubber
production and processing extension advice.
6.     Design and implementation of pilot projects for specialized
horticultural production villages,  including smallholder pilot
projects for pineapples export.
7.     Training of MOA staff in pineapple,  other horticultural
production systems and tree crops production systems.
8.     A study on the pineapple canning industry.
9.     A study on labor supply in the forest zone.
Part E:      Agricultural Support Activities
       Installation and operation of a management information system
by ADB, including acquisition of computer hardware and vehicles.
                                   * * *
       The Project is expected to completed by June 30, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      International Competitive Bidding
       Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
       In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
l.     Goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $60,000
but less than $100,000 per contract and civil works may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally,  in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.     Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $60,000
per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.     The planting operations,  including land clearing and crop
planting and maintenance, shall be carried out by the outgrowers
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Page  12
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
l.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
       (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
       (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account,  such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other  information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
       In order to assist the Borrower and GOPDC, COCOBOD and GREL
in carrying out the Project, consultants shall be employed whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected  in  accordance with principles  and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means:  (i) in the case
of Special Account GOPDC,  Categories  (1)  through (4);  (ii)  in
the case of Special Account COCOBOD, Categories (5) through (8);
(iii) in the case of Special Account GREL, Categories (9) through
(12); and (iv)  in the case of Special Account GEPC,  Categories
(13) through (15) as such Categories are set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule l to this Agreement; and
       (c)   he term "Authorized Allocation" means for each of the
Special Accounts an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into the respective Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.     Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Page  13
Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)   For withdrawals  of any Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the respective Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request
or requests,  the Association shall,  on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
       (b)   (i)    For replenishment of any Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                    such intervals as the Association shall specify.
             (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                    paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                    payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                    Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                    withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                    the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                    shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                    by said documents and other evidence to have been
                    paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
       (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
       (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in any
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into any Special Account
Page  14
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
       (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
       (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
       (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
