Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2180 GH
                              COCOBOD Project
                                 Agreement
                  (Agricultural Diversification Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
                             GHANA COCOA BOARD
                          Dated December 21, 1990
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2180 GH
                         COCOBOD PROJECT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GHANA COCOA BOARD
(COCOBOD).
       WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
12,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that COCOBOD
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
       (B)   part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to COCOBOD
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and
       WHEREAS COCOBOD, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
       Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, in the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
       Section 2.01. COCOBOD declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part
B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
agricultural and environmental practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
       Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
       Section 2.03. COCOBOD shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the COCOBOD Project
Agreement and Part B of the Project.
       Section 2.04. (a) COCOBOD shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
       (b)   COCOBOD shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by COCOBOD of its
obligations under this Agreement.
       Section 2.05. COCOBOD shall establish in consultation with the
Association, not later than June 30, 1991, a producer pricing
mechanism for coffee based on border pricing and taking into account
the processing, transport and marketing costs in relation to the
prevailing FOB price, it being understood that the producer price
shall not be less than 65% of the FOB price except as the
Association shall otherwise agree.
       Section 2.06. COCOBOD:
       (a)   shall sell its coffee planting materials to outgrowers
at a declining rate of subsidies with full cost recovery being
achieved in 1995; and
       (b)   shall not involve itself in input distribution in such
villages and areas where private dealers operate effectively.
       Section 2.07. COCOBOD shall:
       (a)   permit and encourage the purchase, hulling and export of
coffee by private entrepreneurs; and
       (b)   exchange views with the Association, not later than
December 31, 1992, on the progress achieved in privatising these
processes.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of COCOBOD
       Section 3.01. COCOBOD shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural and environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
       Section 3.02. COCOBOD shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
       Section 3.03. COCOBOD shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) COCOBOD shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
       (b)   COCOBOD shall:
             (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                    statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                    and expenses and related statements) for each
                    fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                    appropriate auditing principles consistently
                    applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                    the Association;
             (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                    but in any case not later than six months after
                    the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                    of its financial statements for such year as so
                    audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                    auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                    Association shall have reasonably requested; and
             (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                    concerning said records, accounts and financial
                    statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                    Association shall from time to time reasonably
                    request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
       Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
       Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of COCOBOD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
             (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                    Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                    terms; or
             (ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this
Page  4
                    Agreement.
       (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify COCOBOD
of this event.
       Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
       Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or
telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given
or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
       For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                   Telex:
                    INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                    Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                82987 (FTCC)
       For COCOBOD:
             Ghana Cocoa Board
             P.O. Box 933
             Accra, Ghana
             Cable address:                   Telex:
                    COCOBOD                    2082 GH
                    Accra
       Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of COCOBOD may be taken or executed by the Chief
Executive or such other person or persons as COCOBOD shall designate
in writing, and COCOBOD shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
       Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                    GHANA COCOA BOARD
                    By /s/ Joseph L. S. Abbey
                                                Authorized Representative
