Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15409
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HIGHWAY MAINTENACE PROJECT
(CREDIT 362-EC)
MARCH 7, 1996
Infrastructure Division
Central Africa and Inian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFAF
US$1 = CFAF 507.9
(on March 13, 1996)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DPW          Department of Public Works
MPW          Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Transport
TA           Technical Assistance
UNDP         United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 362-EG
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
Background
1.    Equatorial Guinea won independence from Spain in October 1968, and became a
member of the Bank in July 1970 and of IDA in April 1972. The country comprises the
island of Fernando Poo, on which the capital city Malabo (formerly Santa Isabel) is
located, and the mainland territory of Rio Muni, of which Bata is the provincial capital.
Following a request by the Government for financial assistance, a first Bank Group
exploratory mission visited Equatorial Guinea in November 1970. The mission identified
the need for general improvement of the country's highway maintenance organization.
Subsequent missions prepared the. project in February 1971 and appraised it in August
1971.
Project Objectives
2.    Although Equatorial Guinea had a good highway network that provided access to
the main areas of economic activity, a sound highway maintenance organization was
lacking, and roads were deteriorating due to inadequate maintenance. The project,
therefore, aimed at improving management and operation of the highway administration,
through technical assistance (TA), procurement of essential road equipment, construction
of workshops, garages and warehouses, and improvement of about 30 km of roads to
demonstrate efficient methods of design, bidding and construction.
Project Description
3.    The project consisted of
(a)   technical assistance to help the Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Transport
(MPW) improve the highway administration, and to enable it to carry out road
maintenance and road improvement work efficiently;
(b)   purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment, vehicles, spare parts and
materials,
(c)   construction or improvement of workshops, garages and warehouses; and
(d)   execution of about 30 km of road improvement by contract.
I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Project Start-up
4.    In January 1972, the Bank was ready for negotiations but the Government
requested that financing of the TA component (US$700,000) be provided not by IDA but
as a grant from UNDP.  Following protracted discussions on the UNDP Project
Document with the Government, negotiations were finally held from January 12 to 17,
1973. It was agreed that IDA would finance the purchase of equipment and the works,
for US$2 million and that UNDP would contribute foreign exchange cost of the services
of the highway experts, and of the equipment necessary for their work (US$400,000); the
Government provided assurances that it would finance the local costs of the project
(US$300,000 equivalent).
5.    The credit was approved by the Board in March 1973, and declared effective the
following month.
Project Implementation
6.    Many problems began to be evident soon after June 1973, by which date all four
members of the TA team recruited by the Bank had arrived in Bata. These included the
following: (i) no dialogue was possible with the Government, because the mission was in
Bata (Rio Muni) while the ministry was in Santa Isabel (Fernando Poo); (ii) it was
practically impossible to use official mail, because letters were retained for weeks or
months, due to censorship; (iii) the TA experts enjoyed good housing in the beginning but
were expelled from these houses in November 1973; and (iv) it took several months to
receive cars and office equipment from Douala (Cameroon).
7.    As noted in the May 1973 supervision mission report, project results depended
largely on the cooperation extended by the Government to the experts and on the
necessity of making counterpart personnel available full-time. This cooperation never
materialized because most of the Bank supervision missions had no opportunity to meet
the Minister of Public Works who was responsible for implementation. Communication
was equally difficult with the Director of the Department of Public Works (DPW) --
counterpart of the UNDP team leader -- who resided in Santa Isabel. Two other Guinean
counterpart staff in Bata were from the Department of Housing (located within the
Ministry of Public Works), and thus not concerned with road matters. The fourth
counterpart was the delegate of MIPW for the province of Rio Muni; also the mayor of
Bata, however, he could only devote part of his time to the project. These arrangements
were totally unsatisfactory.
8.    In February 1974, the Government selected a stretch (30 km) of the Micomeseng-
Ebebyin road for improvement under the project. The choice was inappropriate, as this
section was a good laterite road in need of a better drainage system; in addition, the
traffic volume (estimated at less than 100 vehicles per day), was too low to justify a two-
lane paved road standard considered by the Government. On the other hand, the paved
road Bata-Niefang, originally proposed by the appraisal mission, was in greater need of
improvement, being the only link between Bata and the northern as well as eastern regions
2



of the Rio Muni province; this road required pavement strengthening, resealing and
limited realignments.
9.    Government actions were encouraging during the fourth supervision mission
conducted in September 1974, when it: (i) provided suitable office space and office
equipment to the UNDP TA team; (ii) assigned counterparts to the members of the TA
team and appointed a first group of highway personnel as trainees; (iii) provided buildings
for workshops, and for a garage and warehouse in Bata; and (iv) accepted the selection of
the Bata-Niefang road (68 km) for improvement. In addition, in October 1974 the
Government requested Bank approval (which was given) of the purchase of about US$
12,000 worth of hand tools necessary for highway maintenance.
10.   In March 1975, a fifth supervision mission sought to determine the feasibility of
reshaping the project and to explore means to expedite its execution. During the mission,
the UNDP TA team leader was expelled from the country with no explanation. This
erratic decision of the Government jeopardized the entire project.  The loan officer
proposed suspension of disbursements, but this would have not been very meaningful
since there were no disbursements at all. It was decided to discuss the matter with UNDP,
which in a letter dated April 8, 1975 stated its intention to "develop actions that would
propel the project into a more active phase".
1I.   The Bank had some difficulty in making a decision about the future of the project.
The options were: (i) to scale down the project substantially, limiting it to a labor-intensive
maintenance program and 30 km of road improvement; (ii) to transform the project into a
road construction operation only; or (iii) to drop the project. The first two options would
have required a massive involvement of IDA staff in project execution, given the total lack
of cooperation from the Government.
12.   On July 2, 1975, it was decided at a Loan Committee Meeting, and following
consultation with UNDP, to cancel the credit. Notwithstanding the reluctance of UNDP,
which proposed several alternatives for an extended project, the delegation from
Equatorial Guinea to the Annual Meetings was informed, by the regional Vice-President,
of the Bank's decision. This was confirmed by a mission of the Program's Director in
December 1975. Formal cancellation of the total Credit (US$2 million) took place on
April 13, 1976.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   The failure of the project was mainly due to a general misunderstanding of its
objectives and of the method of its execution by the Government and the local authorities.
Notwithstanding its commitment under the Development Credit Agreement to carry out
the project with due diligence and efficiency, the Government was not prepared for such
an effort. It regarded foreign assistance programs as self-sufficient, leading to completed
works with highly visible results but involving little or no direct contribution from the
Government itself to project implementation.
3



14.   Results were minimal, because the Government changed its priorities after project
identification and seemed more interested in constructing new high- standard paved roads
than in maintaining the existing network. It is worth noting, however, that some of the
deficiencies were not related to the project itself, but to general country circumstances,
such as: (i) the deteriorating economic situation, particularly reflected in the shortage of
foreign currency and gasoline; (ii) the cumbersome administrative procedures created by
an excessive concentration of decision-making power in the President's office; and (iii) the
lack of trained local staff in the highway services, which prevented the Government from
providing the required counterpart personnel.
Bank Performance
15.   The identification and appraisal missions stressed the importance of institutional
development, common in Bank projects, without noting the deep disconnect between the
institution and the project. Further, they should have proposed a small physical project,
easy to implement quickly, in order to train the Borrower in Bank procedures. Bank
performance would have been better if in depth understanding had been reached with
UNDP on project objectives and on the respective roles to be played by each party. Also,
UNDP pressured to keep the project alive amid clear signs that the project had no chance
for survival. On the whole, the performance of the Bank was less than satisfactory.
Borrower Performance and Assessment of Outcome
16.   Given all the above, the performance of the Borrower, as well as the outcome of
the project, were highly unsatisfactory.
Key Lessons Learned
17.   Since its inception, the project was plagued by many difficulties, most of which
stemmed from the Government's very limited administrative capacity. In such a situation,
a much greater commitment of IDA staff time is a prerequisite for a project to have any
impact or success. In general, it seems reasonable to conclude that projects under such
field conditions should be provided with a full complement of technical assistance staff and
up front mobilization of counterpart staff, with broad delegation of authority to direct and
execute the activities and to turn over a completed project to the Government.
4






IMAGING
Report No:      15409
Type: PCN



