CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 362 EG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 26, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 362 EG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 26, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF
EQUATORIAL GUINEA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Highway Project by making a development credit as hereinafter
provided;
WHEREAS (B) the United Nations Development Programme (hereinafter
called the UNDP) has agreed to furnish to the Borrower the services of the highway
experts referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, pursuant to an agreement
to be signed between the Borrower, the UNDP and the Association (hereinafter
called the Project Document);
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter.alia of the
foregoing, to grant a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 and
of paragraph (h) of Section 6.02 and to the renumbering of paragraph (i) of Section
6.02 into paragraph (h) thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 15, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1983 and ending January 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in preparing the program
referred to in paragraph A of the Project and in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall either: (a) utilize the services of highway experts furnished by tile
UNDP through the Association and acceptable to the Borrower or (b) employ other
highway experts acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, and, in either
case, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out the works included in Parts B.3 and B.4
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the d- ign standards
for the betterment works included in the Project shall be those agreed between
the Borrower and the Association on the basis of the recommendations of the
highway experts referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit are insured against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, or that other adequate arrangements are made for the insurance of
such goods against such hazards; and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to reflect the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the road system of the Borrower
to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly,
all in accordance with such engineering practices as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association upon the recommendations of the highway experts
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement. The Borrower shall appropriate in
its budgets the funds, and shall provide the facilities, services and other resources,
necessary for the purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take appropriate steps to ensure that such
measures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association upon the
recommendations of the highway experts referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement in respect of the limitation of the size and weight of vehicles using
the road system of the Borrower are fully enforced.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall set up and operate facilities for collecting
and recording systematically such data as shall be required to assess the technical,
economic and financial aspects of the road system of the Borrower.


﻿7
(b)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the preceding
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall utilize, initially, the services of
the highway experts referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement and, later, the
services of Equatorial Guinean staff whom shall have been trained by such experts
for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial resources of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, the road system of the Borrower and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including the balance of payments
and the public external debt, including the debt of any public agency.
Section 5.02. (a) Th- Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial resources of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and shall endeavor to find solutions thereto,
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or regiltration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination;
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions, namely,
the Project Document has been executed and delivered on behalf of
the Borrower and such execution and delivery have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action.


﻿S                                 9
Section 8.02. The date of July 24, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The Ministro de Obras Pablicas, Vivienda y Transporte of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Obras P6blicas,
Vivienda y Transporte
Santa Isabel
Guinea Ecuatorial
Cable address:
Ministerio Obras P6blicas
Santisabel
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
By /s/ Primo Jos6 Esono Mika
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to
each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in
each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Maintenance and Work-          1,000,000           100% of foreign
shop Equipment, Vehicles,                          expenditures
Spare Parts and Materials
II.   Workshops, garages,             100,000            67% of total ex-
warehouses                                         penditures
III.  Betterment Work by              600,000            75% of total ex-
Contract                                           penditures
IV.   Unallocated                     300,000
TOTAL         2,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿12
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower, or laws
in effect in its territories, on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of Categories II and III would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   expenditures in excess of $150,000 in respect of Category I of the
table of paragraph I above, until agreement between the Borrower and the
Association shall have been reached on the five-year maintenance and betterment
program referred to in paragraph A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and on the
financing thereof.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably   determined   that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II or
III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
A.    The Project is part of a maintenance and betterment program of the road
system of the Borrower for the years 1973-1977 to be prepared with the assistance
of the highway experts providing the services referred to in Part B. 1 below.
B.    The Project includes the following parts:
1.   provision of highway experts' services for a program  of technical
assistance to the Borrower in improving road administration and in
carrying out efficient road maintenance and betterment work;
2.    purchase and utilization in road maintenance work of maintenance and
workshop equipment, vehicles, spare parts and materials;
3.    construction or improvement and utilization in road maintenance work
of workshops, garages and warehouses; and
4.    execution by contract of road betterment works of about 30
kilometers.
The Project is expected to be completed before January 15, 1976.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
I.    Procurement of Maintenance and Workshop Equipment, Vehicles, Spare Parts
and Materials
1.   With respect to contracts for items included in Category I of Schedule 1:
(a)   the highway experts will determine the detailed needs for the
Borrower's highway maintenance organization;
(b)   a first purchase of most urgently needed items with an aggregate value
of not more than $150,000 will be ordered on the basis of quotations
from local agents and import companies. The list of items and the
procurement methods will be subject to prior approval of the
Association; and
(c)   the remainder of the items will be procured on the basis of
international competition. A period of 45 days will be allowed for
the submission of proposals from suppliers. The following documents
will be sent to the Association for approval:
(i)        a list of items to be purchased, indicating the approximate
cost of each item and a report in support of such list
containing the recommendations of the highway experts;
(ii)       before inviting bids, copies of the advertising coverage with
a list of addresses, and the bidding documents, including
specifications;
(iii)      before an award is made, an evaluation of bids and
proposals for award and the recommendation of the
highway experts; and
(iv)       after an award is made, a signed copy of the contract.
II.   Construction or Improvement of Workshops, Garages and Warehouses
2.    With respect to contracts for construction or improvement included in
Category 1I of Schedule 1:
(a)   the highway experts will determine the detailed needs for the
Borrower's highway maintenance organization;


﻿16
(b)   the works will be tendered among local contractors; and
(c)   the following documents will be sent to the Association for approval:
(i)         a report in support of a construction or improvement
program containing the recommendations of the highway
experts;
(ii)        before inviting bids, the bidding documents, including
specifications;
(iii)       before an award is made, an evaluation of bids and
proposals for award, together with the recommendation
of the highway experts; and
(iv)        after an award is made, a signed copy of the contract.
III.  Betterment Work by Contract
3.    With respect to contracts for road betterment work included in Category
III of Schedule 1:
(a)   Bidders will be required to prequalify and the Borrower will, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association of the procedure to
be followed and introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. Notice of the invitation to
prequalify will be given to the representatives of all countries which
are members of the Bank (and Switzerland) accredited to the Borrower
not less than 45 days before the date fixed for the prequalification.
In addition, the invitation to prequalify will be simultaneously
advertised in appropriate local publications as well as in selected
newspapers to be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification, will be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for comment before the applicants are notified, and the
Borrower will make such additions or deletions from the list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower will furnish to the Association,
for comment, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the


﻿*                                            17
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and will make
such modifications therein as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification of the bidding documents will require the
Association's concurrence before issuance to the prospective bidders.
(c)   The firms invited to bid will be allowed at least 60 days for submission
of their proposals. The bidding documents will be accompanied by
a bid bond or bank guarantee amounting to not less than 3% of the
estimated contract value.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower will, before
final decision on the award is reached, inform the Association of the
name of the bidder to whom the Borrower intends to award the
contract and will furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report by the highway experts on the evaluation
and   comparison   of  the   bids  received,  together  with  the
recommendations for award of the highway experts and the reasons
for the intended award. The Association will, if it determines that
the intended award is inconsistent with the Development Credit
Agreement or the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 thereof, promptly inform
the Borrower of such determination and state the reasons therefor.
(e)   The successful bidder will furnish a bank guarantee amounting to not
less than 10% of the contract price or a performance bond, such
guarantee or bond to remain in effect for one year after completion
of the works. In addition, the contract will provide for retention, from
each monthly invoice, of not less than 10% of the cost of works.
Such retention may cease when the cumulative amount thereof reaches
5% of the total contract price. One-half of the retention monies will
be released to the contractor when all the work has been substantially
completed, and the other half, fourteen days after the termination
of the contractor's responsibility in respect of defects in the works
(fair wear and tear excepted). The contractor will remain responsible
in respect of such defects for one year after acceptance of the works.
(f)   The terms and conditions of the contract will not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids
were asked.
(g)   Two signed copies of any contract will be furnished to the Association
promptly after signature and before sending to the Association the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect thereof.


