Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9261
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1017-CE)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Rs per US$)
Year                                                Rupees
1980 (Appraisal)                                    15.5
1981 (Project start)                                19.2  I/
1989 (Completion)                                   33.1  1/
1/  Based on average loan disbursement conversion rates.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGUTS AND JiEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARTI             Agrarian Research and Training Institute
ASD              Advisory Services Department
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP           Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Programme
GOSL             Government of Sri Lanka
GPC              Group Processing Centre
IRR              Internal Rate of Return
JEDB             Janatha Estates Development Board
MFP              Ministry of Finance and Planning
MPI              Ministry of Plantation Industries
PAD              Processing Advisory Division
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PCR              Project Completion Report
RCD              Rubber Control Department
REO              Rubber Extension Officer
RPPU             Rubber Policy and Planning Unit
RPRC             Rubber Policy Review Committee
RRI              Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka
RSS              Ribbed Smoked Sheet
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SPC              State Plantation Corporation
TCWP             Tree Crops Working Group



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 2043 3
U.S A
Office of DirectowCGeneral
Operatmm nvakIwton
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1017-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Sri Lanka: Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1017-CE)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrcwer. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANMK
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1017-CE)
CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY . ..
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.        Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Background .1
C.        Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . .            2
D.        Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . .            3
E.        Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
F.        Project Resuilts   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           5
G.   Project Sustainability .11
H.  Bank Performance .11
I.        Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           12
J.   Project Relationship .13
K.   Consulting Services .13
L.        Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . .           13
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .          15
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.        Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   . . . . . . . . . . .           17
B.  Project Timetable    ..17
C.   Credit Disbursements .17
D.   Project Implementation    ..18
E.        Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           21
F.  Project Results    ..22
(1) Direct Benefits .22
(2) Economic Impact .22
(3) Financial Impact .23
(4) Studies .23
G.        Status of Covenants   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            23
H.        Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           24
TABLES
1.        Economic Analysis   ....  .  .      .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
1.1  Rubber Crop Model (Yields and Ilaputs)  . . . . . . .         26
1.2  Rubber Crop Model (Financial Budget)   . . . . . . .          29
2.        Financial Rate of Return  ... .  .  .    ..... .       .  .  .    .  32
3.        3.1  Banana Crop Model (Yields and Inputs) .  . . . . . .           33
3.2  Banana Crop Model (Financial Budget) .   . . . . . .          33
MAP - IBRD 14733R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1017-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Smallholder Rubber
Rehabilitation Project in Sri Lanka for which Cr. 1017-CE in the amount of US$16
million was approved in May 1980.   On January 17, 1986, US$4.0 million was
cancelled from the Credit account due to a considerably reduced disbursement
rate, mainly as a result of the depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee against the
US Dollar.  The Credit closed on December 31, 1988 an undisbursed belance of
US$0.86 million was cancelled.
This report was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
mission i/ which visited Sri Lanka in April/May 1990. 2/   It is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, the draft
PCR prepared by the Borrower, and discussions with staff of the various
implementing agencies, and farmers.
1/        Messrs. H. Trupke (Economist, Mission Leader) and K.K. Aw Yong
(Agronomist).
2/        Minor editorial changes were made by IDA staff.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER RRHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1017-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The main objective of the project was to increase production and
improve quality of Sri Lanka's rubber by providing smallholders with adequate
replanting inputs and incentives, and reorganizing and strengthening the agencies
concerned. It mainly consisted of replanting 18,800 ha of over-aged smallholder
rubber area and providing institutional support to the Rubber Control Department
(RCD) and the Advisory Services Department (ASD), including the provision of
office and housing facilities, equipment and training and technical
assistance.
Implementation Experience
2.        The project was planned to be implemented over a period of six years,
starting in July 1980 (with retroactive financing of expenditures from January
1980) and ending in December 1985. Total costs were estimated at Rs434.0 million
CUS$28.0 million equivalent) and an IDA credit of US$16.0 million was made
available. Initially, replanting exceeded appraisal targets, however, starting
from 1983, programme implementation fell considerably short, due mainly to
droughts and floods and partly to land ownership and registration problems.
3.        In addition to the above problems, the State Plantation Corporation
(SPC) and the Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB) also failed to supply the
necessary amount of planting materials, resulting in further delays in the
replanting programme. Subsequently, private commercial nurseries increasingly
supplied planting materials to growers.   However,  the attempt of the two
corporations and the private nurseries to substantially increase the output of
planting materials within a short period resulted in the production and supply
of poor quality budded stumps and mixed clones to project participants. This
siLuation was rectified during the latter part of the project.
4.        PB 86 was the predominant clone planted in the project area, since the
availability of higher yielding and disease-resistant clones was limited.
Commencing from 1984, rubber varieties RRIC 100 and RRIC 103 were planted. The
latter clone was found to be extremely susceptible to Corynespora leaf spot, a
fungal disease requiring the uprooting of at least 4,000 ha countrywide, of which
about 1,900 ha was on smallholdings. Inter-cropping, mainly with bananas, was
carried out by about 132 of farmers, slightly above the 112 appraisal estimate.



iv
5.        In 1986, US$4 million of the Credit was cancelled due to slow progress
and low replanting cost in US$ terms per unit of land. To achieve the original
replanting target, the Credit had to be extended twice by one year and at the
time of credit completion (December 1988), a balance of US$0.86 million remained
unspent and was cancelled.
6.        Besides the replanting of over-aged rubber, the project was also to
improve the quality of output from both private processors and group processing
centres (GPCs) and by strengthening and expanding the GPCs Lo provide alternative
processing channels to reduce the proportion of individually-processed rubber.
The component accounted for less than 1Z of total project cost. Although GPCs
were improved and expanded as planned and some quality improvement took place,
the impact on the industry and on farmers' incomes was marginal as the GPCs
continued to suffer from low throughput, poor management and financial
constraints.
7.        The institutional reorganization proposed at appraisal underwent some
minor  changes  during  implementation.    Institutions  dealt  with  farmers'
requirements expediently, laying the foundation for a continuous, well-managed
replanting programme.
Results
8.        It was estimated at appraisal that successful project implementation
would lead to incremental annual production of about 25,000 tons of rubber at
full development. As the planting material used for replanting was mostly of
the lower yielding PB 86 variety, incremantal production has been re-estimated
to reach a maximum of 19,500 tons at full development.
9.        The economic rate of return (ERR) at appraisal was estimated at 23Z
for the project as a whole. The re-estimated ERR of the project is 18Z. Factors
contributing to the decrease are the delay in the replanting programme, the lower
than anticipated yields and the lack of benefits from the processing component.
The recalculated financial IRR on the Government project cash flow is 12Z,below
the appraisal estimate of 14Z.
Sustainability
10.       As a result of an improvement in institutional structuring,  the
prospects for sustainability of project activities, are promising.  Physical
facilities provided by the project continue to be properly maintained and staff
recruited for project purposes were integrated in the cadres of the respective
agencies.   Farmers have demonstrated their willingness and ability to adopt
improved practices.



v
Findings nd Lessons Learned
11.       The project was generally well designed and both the Bank and the
Borrower performed well throughout the whole project. Implementation suffered
some delays due to lack of planting material and adverse weather conditions.
The implementation experience suggests a number of specific lessons to be learned
(see paras 56 and 59). Generally, more attention should have been paid to the
supply and quality control of planting materials, as well as the processing
component. Greater care in the design of the institutional framework would have
avoided the need for partial restructuring during implementation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1017-CE)
PART I s PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name    : Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.      : 1017-CE
RVP Unit        : Asia Region
Country         : Sri Lanka
Sector          : Agriculture
Sub-sector      : Tree Crops
B.     Background
14.    Recognizing the pivotal role of agriculture in stimulating economic
growth and rural development, the Government of Sri Lanka's (GOSL) development
plans and programmes have persistently focused on: a) increasing agricultural
employment as well as improving income levels; b) increasing self-sufficiency
in basic food items; and c) expanding export earnings from both traditional
agricultural exports, i.e. mainly tea, rubber and coconut, and "non-traditional"
items such as cocoa, coffee and spices.
15.    The Government's strategy for achieving these objectives had emphasized
better utilization of the existing potential through institutional and policy
improvement, as well as rehabilitation of the production base, including a
stepped-up programme for rehabilitation of plantation tree crops. The tree crop
sector is second only in importance to the food crop sector within Sri Lanka's
agricultural economy. Over the last decade, tree crops accounted for over 702
of total export earnings and provided some 452 of all agricultural employment.
Rubber is the second most important tree crop after tea. During the seventies,
rubber accounted for about 182 of tetal export earnings and provided some 82 of
all agricultural employment and contributed about 52 of the value added by the
agricultural sector.   Duties and cesses levied on rubber exports in 1979
accounted for some 122 of Government tax revenue.
16.    The ownership of rubber land was predominantly private (65Z) with 352
owned by the State following the nationalization of private estates between 1972
and 1975.  At appraisal, Sri La-'a's rubber production was about 147,000 metric
tons per year.   However, the medium-term outlook for the rubber sector was
considered to be poor, reflecting the e,,sion of the production potential caused



2
by a failure to maintain an adequate replant-..g rate over the past * -ade.  In
order to address the situation GOSL had requested IDA assistance.
C.     Project Objectives and Description
17.    Obiectives.  The main objective of the six-year project was to increase
future rubber production through its support of an on-going 30SL scheme to
replant the backlog of over-aged and low-yielding smallholder rubber in Kegalla,
Kalutara and Ratnapura, the three main rubber growing Districts. This was to
be achieved by re-organizing and strengthening the agencies responsible for
replanting, by the provision of adequate replanting inputs and incentives and
by improving the quality of rubber produced.
18.    Comaonents.  The major components of the project were:
(a) replanting of 18,800 ha with high-yielding rubber on about 27,000
smallholdings (below 20 ha) over five years, to replace about 702 of
over-aged privately-owned rubber in the project area, or about 452 of Sri
Lanka's total.
(b) institutional support for the Rubber Control Department (RCD) and the
Advisory Services Department (ASD), comprising re-organization and
strengthening through staff recruitment, training, provision of equipment
and civil works, and the creation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
within the Ministry of Plantation Industries (MPI);
(c) improvement of smallholder processing standards through establishment of
a Processing Advisory Division (PAD) within ASD which would service
private processors and 67 existing Group Processing Centers (GPCs); and,
following the attainment of satisfactory operating norms for existing
GPCs, establishment of 50 new GPCs;
(d) support for research directed towards the smallholder through the
provision of vehicles and equipment for the Rubber Research Institute of
Sri Lanka (RRI);
(e) support to the Agrarian Research and Training Institute (ARTI) to conduct
surveys and case studies aimed at evaluating the project's impact on
smallholders; and
(f) provision of technical assistance for training, project evaluation,
development of improved procedures for administration of the replanting
scheme, and for the establishment of the Processing Advisory Division.
19.    The project was to be implemented by three existing agencies:  i.e. the
ASD, the RCD and the RRI. In addition, a Rubber Policy and Planning Unit (RPPU)
was to be established under the project within the MPI to develop appropriate
policies for the rubber industry and to plan their implementation. All project
activities were to be coordinated by PCU, also to be established under the
project. Following past practice, rubber replanting payments to farmers were
to be financed by a Replanting Fund administered by RCD and financed by a



3
Replanting Cess levied on rubber exports.  At the end of 1979, the fund had
accumulated cash reserves of about US$3._ million.  It was, however, expected
that due to t.e project induced acceleration of replanting, the fund would be
exhausted by PY2 and thereafter the fund would accumulate a deficit estimated
at US$17.4 million by PY6.  IDA's direct contril'ution to the Rubber Replanting
Scheme of US$13.3 million was to meet 47Z of t', accumulated fund deficit, the
balance to be funded from Government resour.:es.   Farmers were to receive
replanting payment in eight installments over a seven-year period.
D.     Prolect Design and Organization
20.    Desin.  The project's concept was clear and fitted well in Government's
development strategy to arrest the decline in export earnings and budget revenue
from rubber and to strengthen the agencies responsible to ensure continuing
support to the sub-sector. Although it was the first IDA-financed project in
support of rubber production, the project concept was not innovative as it
generally followed the same well proven approach to replanting taken by GOSL
since 1953. It was, however, the first time that an attempt was being made to
streamline and improve the services provided to smallholders by the main
implementing agencies and to improve smallholders processing standards as well
as research.
21.    Two consecuti-e FAOICP identification and preparation missions prepared
the project on behalf of GOSL followed by Bank pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions. In general, the project was well prepared. However, more attention
should have been paid to qualitative and quantitative aspects of nursery
production, the planting of proven high-yielding clones in the field and the
adequacy of subsidy rates.
22.    Organization.  In order to implement the project, the responsibilities
of ASD and RCD were redefined. ASD was given responsibility for distribution
of inputs, technical advice, inspection of land for registration and issuing of
replanting permits and payments.   In addition, it was to conduct publicity
campaigns to stimulate replanting efforts of smallholders.   The RCD was made
responsible mainly for the administration of the replanting programme, but was
also continu.ag to collect and maintain industry statistics relating to rubber
area, produ Uon, processing and marketing. RCD was also designated to estimate
replanting input requirements and procure these inputs and RCD was to retain its
inspectors (which were previously responsible for the inspection of holdings,
authorization of replantirig permits and distribution of replanting inputs) for
verifying a sample of the inspections carried out by ASD officers.  RCD was
required to relinquish its responsibility for setting replanting payment and cess
levels to the Rubber Policy and Planning Unit to be established within the MPI.
23.    In retrospect,  the simplicity of the project focussing on a single
commodity and built on precedent, and designed to meet a real and already
established demand for funds, inputs and services, contributed to the success
of the project. The use of existing (albeit modified) institutions rather than
the creation of new ones for mainstream activities, facilitated project start-
up and implementation.



4
24.    The project came at a most propitious moment, when the Government, with
a newly prepared master plan for the rubber sub-sector, funded by the Overseas
Development Ministry (ODM) of the United Kingdom was reviewing the state of the
industry and considering proposals for its long term improvement.
E.     Project Implementation
25.    Critical Variances in Project Implementation.  The project was planned
to be implemented over a period of six years, starting in July 1980 (with
retroactive financing of expenditures from January 1980) and ending in December
1985. Total costs were estimateed at Rs434.0 million (US$28.0 million equivalent)
and ar IDA credit of US$16.0 million was made available.  In January 1986, US$4.0
million of the Credit was cancelled 1/ due to the slow progress in the
construction of physical facilities and less than estimated replanting cost in
US$ terms per unit of land. Also staff recruitment was slower than anticipated.
By 1983, ASD had recruited only 41 Rubber Extension Officers (REO's) and RCD only
39 Rubber Inspectors compared with a target of 60 and 59 ASD and RCD staff
respectively. Subsequent droughts further delayed replanting and the credit had
to be extended twice by one year. At the time of credit completion (December
31, 1988), a balance of US$0.86 million remained unspent and was cancelled.
26.    Slippages occurred in the initial years (1981 to 1983) mainly in the
construction of staff qu Pters. For instance, by the end of 1981 only 16 out
of a target of 41 ASD staff quarters were completed. The slower than anticipated
staff recruitment also resulted in a slow down in the procurement of
corresponding vehicles and equipment.
27.    Contrary to SAR expectations, the State Plantation Corporation (SPC) and
the Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB) failed to supply the necessary
amount of planting materials, because at preparation SPC and JEDB did not make
an accurate assessment of the total amount of planting materials required for
use in their own estates and .n the project area. The ability of the private
sector   to   supply   planti,.g   materials   was   also   not   explored   at
preparation/appraisal. The shortage of planting material resulted in delayed
implementation of the replanting programme.   The bulk of the requirement of
planting materials was supplied by private commercial nurseries from PY3 onwards.
The attempt of the twe corporations and private nurseries to eubstantially
increase the output of planting material within a short period resulted in the
supply of poor quality budded stumps and mixed clones to project participants.
The RRI, in charge of quality control, was unable to effectively carry out its
function, due mainly to a lack of staff and mobility to inspect the widely
dispersed private nurseries.
28.    Subsequently, with the increase in RRI's inspectors, private nurseries
were supplying good quality plants at a better price than the public estates.
With the establishment of three additional large nurseries by RCD during 1984/85,
more planting materials were produced, thus allowing the completion of the
project replanting target by June 1988.
1/ January 17, 1988.



5
29.    PB 86 was the predominant clone planted in the project area, owing to tile
limited number of higher yielding and disease-resistant clones available.
Commencing from 1984, RRIC 100 and RRIC 103 were also planted. The latter was
prematurely released and after planting in project holdings was found to be
extremely susceptible to Corynespora leaf spot, a fungal disease requiring the
uprooting of at least 4,000 ha countrywide, of which about 1,900 ha were on
smallholdings (including about 1,500 ha in the project area).
30.    Project Risks.   The SAR did not anticipate any major project risks,
indicating that even if replanting targets were not entirely met, or that no
improvement of rubber quality would take place, the project would remain
economically viable.   This has proven to be a correct assumption (para 49).
However, it should have been anticipated that the estates would give higher
priority to their own planting ma .rial requirements vis-a-vis the smallholder
needs, and more support should have been provided to the strengthening of the
private nursery sector.
31.    Unforeseen Factors AffectinR Project Implementation. Most of the project
area suffered from a severe drought during 1983, affecting both nursery
production and replanting. The subsequent 1984 floods also considerably reduced
the planting material supply. These factors negatively affected the 1983 to 1985
replanting targets.
F.     Project Results
32.    General.  The project as a whole can be considered a success, as it has
met its main objective of replanting the backlog of over-aged, low-yielding
smallholder rubber    As planned,  it has also strengthened the implementing
agencies' capacity and capability in providing support to the rubber smallholder
sub-sector.   The project role in increasing the quality of rubber and thus
increasing farmers' incomes through the improvement of private and group
processing was not entirely satisfactory.   In general, the success of this
project established the basis for the formulation of the Second Smallholder
Rubber Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1909-CE), which was approved by the World Bank
group in 1988.
33.    Replanting.  At appraisal, it was estimated that a total area of 18,800
ha would be replanted on about 27,000 smallholdings over a five-year period.
Initially,  replanting exceeded SAR targets.   However,  starting from 1983,
programme implementation fell considerably below targets, due mainly to drought
and floods but also land ownership and registration problems. By early 1985 it
became clear that the original replanting target could not be achieved, and the
programme was rephased and extended by one year. However, even those targets
could not be reached, requiring a further rephasing and extension by an
additional year. By 1988, about 20,500 ha were planted. However, due to the
Corynespara leaf spot disease, about 1,500 ha had to be uprooted (para 29) and
annual planting figures were adjusted accordingly.  A comparison between SAR
targets, revised targets (October 1986) and actual achievement is provided below:



6
r..II-. %Inr       1w12    m    1a4      1a   11   1a?    1m   Tye,l
(a)/jer
Appraisul  1,60    2.600  4.000  4,800  6, 600  -           -      18.600
Eatiuate (he)
Revised    2.418   2,991  2,429  2,900  3,472  2,600  2,000  -     lS,810
Target (ha)
Actual (ha)  2,418  2,991  2,429  2,900  8,472  2,381  1.617  392  18,800
34.    Almost all the project participants have planted PB 86 at a density of
180 plants per acre, since thinning was generally not practiced.   Pueraria
Phaseloides was the predominant cover crop, owing to the unavailability of seeds
of Desmodium species.  Generally, it was found that the work preparatory to
planting had been well done and that spacing was correct and terraces on sloping
lands well prepared.
35.    Subsequent maintenance,  however,  was not always  satisfactory.   In
numerous cases replanting payment installments had to be withheld until the
situation was rectified.   This was due mainly to the inadequate replanting
payment which was estimated to cover only 472 of the full cost, with no
complementary line of credit was available. All the payments were actually given
in the first five years as opposed to seven years as planned. The majority of
holdings were still not tappable for at least two more years. No fertilizers
(rock phosphate) were applied in the planting holes and, in subsequent
applications, magnesium was lacking in the compound fertilizers supplied.
Premature tapping was common and so was daily tapping in holdings using hired
tappers. This reflected lack of extension service in providing the necessary
advice  or assistance particularly  in marking  the tapping panel,  tapping
frequencies and tapping of various mixed clones.  This deficiency can be partly
attributed  to  the  fact  that  the  ASD  officers  were  given  additional
responsibilities, such as input distribution, and were not allowed full-time
dedication to the extension task, but also partly due to the failure to recruit
an adequate number of staff (para 41).
36.    It is premature to estimate yields since the earliest plantings were only
in the third year of tapping during the mission's visit. Yield data were not
monitored by ASD. Based on visits to some smallholdings and discussions with
farmers, yield assumptions of the mission in comparison with SAR estimates are
indicated below:



7
1st Year       2nd Year        3rd Year        Average for
(kglha)        (kglha)         (kglha)         Tapping Period
SAR            300             675             840            1,077
PCR            240             540             670               738
37.    The  distribution  of  inputs  to  farmers  was  considerably  improved.
Additional  fertilizer  stores  were  provided  in  the  respective  regional
headquarters. Fertilizers and planting materials were supplied by ASD to farmers
at convenient distributing centers or even to their houses if accessible by road.
38.    Intercropping.  In order to maintain adequate cash incomes, especially
for the smaller smallholders during the immature period of the replanted rubber,
and to maximize returns per hectare, the project encouraged intercropping of
rubber with other crops such as bananas, passion fruit and pineapples. During
the project period, a total of 2,485 ha were intercropped, most of it with
bananas, either in pure stand (1,655 ha) or mixed with other crops (336 ha).
Passion fruit accounted for 477 ha, the balance being planted to coffee and
spices.    Practically  all  farmers  obtained  their  planting  material  from
neighboring farmers and not from the Department of Agriculture as had been
foreseen in the SAR. The area intercropped amounted to about 13Z of the total
replanted rubber area, slightly above the SAR estimate of 11Z.  However, as
fig"ires below show, intercropping rates declined in the later project years due
to numerous factors such as unsuitability of soils, soil erosion problems,
difficulties in obtaining quality planting material and unattractive prices,
particularly for passion fruit.
Int.rcropping   1961  1962   1968   1984   1906    1966   1907   1066   Total
(ha)/Yer
Bananas       167   232    239    822    285    265    130    86        1,666
Bananas A Pine-  15    88    es     49      64     72    a8       9       888
apple.
Passion fruit   B8   149     97      8      27     77     84    14        494
ond
others
TOTAL         260   414    402      879    86e   404    202   s6        2,485
39.    Institutions.  Under the project a Project Coordinating Unit was to be
established and the roles and functions of the main implementing agencies, i.e.
(the ASD and the RCD), were redefined (para 22) and both institutions were
strengthened  in terms  of  staff,  facilities  and  equipment.    The  PCU was
established as planned and has functioned well throughout implementation despite
the high turnover (three changes) in the post of project coordinator.



8
40.    The changes in the institutional responsibilities of ASD and RCD, as
proposed at appraisal (para 22), were implemented soon after project start-up.
During implementation it was found that in some areas clear demarcations could
not be achieved resulting in overlapping of activities and duplication of
efforts.   Procedures had therefore to be revised.   Beginning in 1984, the
inspection of holdings for replanting permits, the issue of replanting permits
and the inspection of replantings for authorization of replanting payments became
the entire responsibility of RCD. After the census of Rubber Lands, conducted
by the RCD in 1983/84, the systematic quadrennial field checks on rubber holding
registration details were also implemented by RCD and became part of the industry
statistics already maintained by RCD.
41.    The required incremental staff for the PCU and the RCD was recruited,
although in some cases with delay, and facilities, vehicles and equipment
provided according to SAR or revised targets (see also Part III/4). The main
exception was the recruitment of ASD rubber extension officers, which by the end
of the project, fell short by 44 out of 121 positions.  The training center,
established by ASD, had a very positive impact on the level of knowledge of both
staff and farmers and a total of 5,350 persons (of which 3,442 farmers) had
received training during the project period.
42.    In spite of the recruitment of 92 incremental clerical officers, it was
found that RCD's performance in the processing of replanting permits and payments
was cumbersome in the initial stages. It was therefore decided to computerize
data processing.   The progt_mme started in 1985 and by 1989 a decentralized
computer system was operational in all districts.  As a result,   processing
delays of registrations, replanting permits and subsidy payments were reduced
from about 6 months to 3 to 4 weeks. This is considered a major success of the
project, as farmers will no longer be discouraged from participating in rubber
replanting programmes due to slow processing of applications and delayed
payments.
43.    The Rubber Policy and Planning Unit (RPPU) within MPI and the Rubber
Policy Review Committee (RPRC) were established as outlined in the SAR. Both
units, however, became inoperational and were essentially dissolved by end-1982.
By early 1984,  the RPPU was revived and renamed Smallholder RPPU concerning
itself only with the development of appropriate smallholder policies.   This
avoided any clash of interest with the estate sector which was a main reason
for the operational difficulties of the original RPPU. In lieu of the RPRC, the
Government had established in 1985 a Tree Crops Working Group (TCWP) within the
Ministry of Finance and Planning  (MFP).   This working group assumed more
important functions than those of the RPRC and was considered a viable
alternative arrangement.   The appointment of an ombudsman in each of the
divisions covered by the project did not materialize, apparently without any
detrimental effect on project implementation.
44.    Processing.  A total of 67 Group Processing Centers (GPCs) were to be
improved and 50 new ones established, and technical and managerial advice was
to be given to the GPCs, as well as individual private processors, to improve
quality of Ribbed Smoked Sheet (RSS) thus enhancing farmers' returns.
Registration of GPCs with the Cooperative Department, a prerequisite to qualify
for financial support under the project, was quite slow and many could not be



9
registered dtring implementation; by mid-1983, only 35 GPCs were rehabilitated
and the full target of 67 was reached by 1986. In view of this slow progress,
the number of new GPCs to be established was reduced to 15 units during the 1985
review and all of these were set up by 1988.   Now, at the time of the PCR
preparation, 70 GPCs were still operational.
45.    This component, which accounted for less than 12 total project cost was
not very successful. Although quality improved, returns to farmers generally
did not increase'/ since the performance of many GPCs was unsatisfactory because
of incompetent management and inadequate throughput resulting in high unit cost.
Furthermore, many farmers preferred to sell RSS to the private trade, which
extended informal credit for consumer goods.  Under a pilot Savings and Loan
Scheme, which was started in 9 GPCs in 1987, members were allowed to draw small
consumption credits from the GPC savings account, which was financed from a small
levy on the farmers' produce and by optional additional savings. By offering
credit facilities, delivery to these selected centers had reportedly increased.
Farmers in the vicinity of crepe factories preferred to sell latex, as this has
proven to be more profitable, suggesting a need for the establishment of latex
collecting centers.  Also, due to PAD's concentration on support to selected
GPCs, upgrading of private sector processing was neglected.
46.    Research.  As planned, support to research was provided mainly in the
form of vehicles for improved mobility to carry out field trials, laboratory
equipment and the provision of five 12-month post-graduate fellowships.  All
fellowships were utilized and most staff trained under the programme are still
in position. The supervision of field trials has improved due to better mobility
of the field staff.
47.    Project Evaluation.   At appraisal, it was planned that the project's
achievements would be evaluated throughout the project period by the Agrarian
Research and Training Institute (ARTI).   This evaluation was to comprise an
initial baseline survey of smallholders in the project area to be followed by
case studies to identify changes required in the operation of the implementing
agencies, as well as in the replanting scheme, to make it more attractive to
smallholders.  The studies carried out by ARTI were considered useful by the
implementing agencies. Their impact on the course of project implementation,
however, appears to be small.   ARTI was also required to carry out a post
evaluation of the project to facilitr ' PCR preparation.  A draft report was
submitted to MPI by July 1988.  The '   ementing agencies disagreed with many
of the findings and ARTI was requested to amend the draft which was not done.
48.    Technical Assistance.  A total of 15 man-months of technical assistance
in the form of consultancies was earmarked, consisting of 6 man-months for the
administration of the replanting scheme, 3 man-months each for training,
processing and project evaluation.  Technical assist   e on administration, and
training in particular, proved most beneficial.
49.    Economic Rate of Return.  At appraisal, the ERR for the whole project was
estimated at 23Z. Using 1989 constant prices, the re-estimated ERR amounts to
1/ ARTI: Post ProJect Evalustion - SFaliholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project, Colombo, 1988.



10
18Z. Factors contributing to the decrease are mainly the delay in the replanting
programme and the lower than anticipated yields. In addition, no benefits were
attributed to the improvement of processing as the performance of most GPCs was
not satisfactory and no reliable data on throughput and operational costs was
available (see Table 1).
50.    Financial Performance.   At appraisal, the analysis of the Government
project cash flow, consisting of replanting payments, administrative overheads
and fertilizer subsidies as expenditures and income from cess and export duties
as revenues, indicated a financial IRR of nearly 14Z.  The recalculated IRR
amounts to 12Z, a slight decrease mainly due to lower rubber output resulting
in reduced revenues from cess and duty (see Table 2). By end-1989, the closing
balance of the Rubber Replanting Fund amounted to Rs49.4 million (US$1.5
million), but according to RCD projections, it is expected to go into deficit
by Rs34.9 million by 1991 unless the replanting cess is increased and/or
Government contribution enhanced.
51.    For individual farmers using family labor, the net farm income based on
a 1 ha model (as at appraisal) is now expected to reach Rsl8,250 at full
development (Years 15 to 17) as compared with the appraisal estimate of Rs8,487
(equivalent to Rsl8,926 in 1989 prices), resulting in a financial rate of return 1/
of about 17Z on farmers' investment. By planting intercrops (mainly bananas)
during the first four unproductive years of the rubber plantation, the net farm
income on intercrops has been re-estimated at Rsl8,500 compared with an appraisal
estimate of Rs4,885 (equivalent to Rsll,040 in 1989 prices) with an IRR in excess
of lOOz.
52.    Proiect Impact.  The replanting of over-aged smallholder rubber had a
significant impact on the sub-sector, by not only halting the previously
encountered trend of declining production and productivity but actually
increasing rubber production by an estimated 19,530 tons at full development.
The improvement of the institutional framework, capable of adequately catering
for the smallholders' requirements, has laid the foundation for further timely
replantings and improvement of the production base. The replanting of over-aged
trees, resulting in improved maintenance of blocks and terraces, had a positive
influence on the environment. Although the project resulted in a higher use of
chemical fertilizers, water pollution is considered minimal due to trench
application.
53.    It is too early to adequately assess the project's impact on the social
environment, as only about 25Z of the hectarage replanted has become productive.
At appraisal (1980), it was estimated that the income of the small smallholders
(up to 0.4 ha) was  almost  60Z below poverty  income and that of medium
smallholders  (0.4 - 0.8 ha) 34Z below poverty income of about Rs6270 per
household.    Based on the prevailing poverty  threshold of Rs9,000,  small
smallholders are now only 20Z below that threshold, whilst medium smallholders
/ Appraisal  timat4s did not provido IRR figures.



11
are already 202 above, l/ improving SAR estimates of 37Z and 12Z below the
poverty threshold for the two respective groups. Medium and large smallholders
were even in the "without" project situation enjoying incomes considerably above
the poverty threshold.
54.    The  institutions   involved  in  project  implementation  benefitted
considerably from the project as their managerial, financial and operational
capacities and/or capabilities were improved.
G.     Proiect Sustainability
55.    Most of the backlog of replanting requirements has been cleared by the
project and further replanting as well as new planting is supported by the IDA-
financed Second Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1909-CE).   All
incremental staff recruited under the project was included in the regular payroll
of the respective agencies, and the facilities established and equipment and
vehicles procured under the project continue to be well maintained. Generally.
the farmers have acquired the necessary skills to maintain replanted blocks at
reasonable standards.  Increasing labor cost and the lack of skilled tappers
may affect rubber production in the long-term but it can be assumed that the
project will maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout its economic
life.
H.     Bank Performance
56.    The Bank's performance during the project cycle was very satisfactory.
A total of 13 supervision missions were fielded during implementation, with a
considerable degree  of staff continuity.    The  intervals between missions
fluctuated from 6 to 9 months (see Part III/8). The main lessons learned from
project implementation, that could be relevant to other Bank financed projects
are:
(a) In view of the importance of the rubber sector for the economy, it would
have been appropriate to set up a single organization to be responsible
for all project components.   If separate agencies are involved in
implementation, care must be taken to avoid conflicts of interest and
duplication of efforts (paras 22 and 40).
(b) The dependence on monopolistic supply of planting material from the
estate sector should have been avoided and alternative (private) sources
supported from the beginning to ensure timely and adequate supply of
planting material (para 27).
(c) An effective quality control mechanism should have been established at
an early stage to ensure that only high quality planting material of the
appropriate clone was supplied to farmers (para 27).
1/ Bas d on tho income at full development from re-calculated one-hectare model, without
intercropping.



12
(d) Group Processing Centers have proven to be necessary, particularly in
remote areas.  However, in design, a greater degree of flexibility is
required to also provide for latex collection in the vicinity of crepe
factories (para 45).
(e) Adequate finance (capital and operating expenses) for establishment,
sufficient throughput and good management, are essential for Group
Processing Centers to be successful (para 45).
(f) In projects involving large numbers of participants requiring a multitude
of different operations, computerization of data processing should be
included as a project component (para 42).
57.    In addition to the above lessons learned,  implementation experience
indicates that the success of the project can partly be attributed to the
simplicity of design and the use of already existing institutions for project
implementation, rather than the creation of new ones. Also, the use of cess-
funded grants, rather than farm credit, for replanting has helped to overcome
the farmers' traditional resistance to replanting.
I.     Borrower Performance
58.    The borrower performed very well throughout the whole project.  Although
there were three staff changes in the post of the Project Coordinator, project
implementation was not disrupted due to staff continuity at the top levels of
the implementing agencies. Only the RPPU and the RPRC did not function well,
as there was a lack of cooperation from the agencies involved and decisions made
by these bodies were cutting across ministry's lines of responsibilities. These
problems were resolved by 1984 (para 43).
59.    The  borrower  adopted  all  the  agreed  covenants  (see  Part  III/7).
Initially there were considerable delays in the submission of audit
accounts/reports which was partly attributable to a union dispute over the
recruitment of accountants.   The situation improved considerably from the
beginning of 1985. However, the borrower did not submit a PCR within six months
after credit closing,   as stipulated,  as the findings of the Post Project
Evaluation Report prepared by ARTI were not fully accepted by the implementing
agencies and lacked the required financial evaluation and cost data. A revised
and improved draft was not submitted.   The main experiences gained by the
borrower were:
(a) replanting payment installments should be increased in the first two
years when capital investments are highest and an additional installment
provided at the end of the immature period to avoid premature tapping.
In addition, a special credit line should be provided to bridge farmers'
financial shortfalls during the establishment phase (para 35);
(b) extension staff should not be burdened with additional responsibilities
such as land inspection and input distribution, as all these activities



13
reduce time available for providing techniral advice to farmers (para
35);
(c) new clones should not be released for planting unless their yield
performance and particularly their resistance to important diseases is
known (para 29); and
(d) adequate staff allocation should be made to ensure timely auditing in
compliance with the respective covenant (para 60);
J.     Project Relationship
60.    The Bank/Borrower relationship was satisfactory throughout the project
period.  A fruitful dialogue was maintained between GOSL, as principal borrower,
and the implementing agencies on one side and the Bank on the other.   All
ministries and agencies collaborated fully with the preparation and appraisal
missions and were very supportive to the supervision missions.   Only the
initially delayed submission of audited accounts/reports required the Bank to
indicate the risk of disbursement suspension to the borrower.   However, in
subsequent years audited accounts were received on time.
K.     Consulting Services
61.    The functions and performance of consultants have already been described
in para 48. Contractors and suppliers generally also performed satisfactorily.
A problem arose over the quality of construction of the two regional offices in
Ratnapura and Kalutara, where the original contractor had to be dismissed half-
way through the contract and the work had to be completed by a new contractor.
This caused a delay in project implementation.
L.     Project Documentation and Data
62.    The main documents governing project implementation were the Staff
Appraisal Report  (SAR)  and the Development Credit Agreement  (DCA).   Both
documents were well prepared and generally adhered to. The SAR provided a useful
framework for the Bank and the Borrower to monitor the achievement of physical
targets throughout the project period. Due mainly to the rapid depreciation of
the Sri Lankan Rupee against the US Dollar, the financial data provided in the
SAR were no longer applicable.
63.    During the short stay of the PCR preparation mission in the country, it
was not possible to collect and generate all data required for a thorough
financial and economic analysis and the results presented are based on mission
estimates where data were not available.



15
PART II 1/
64.        The draft PCR was reviewed by a group of senior Government officials
from MPI and agencies which were involved in project implementation.   The
analysis contained in Part I was found to correctly reflect project progress and
the factual information provided in Part III to be adequate and accurate.
65.        The assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's performance during the
evolution and implementation of the project, as indicated in Sections 8 and 9
of Part I, was also considered appropriate. In addition to the lessons learned
indicated therein, the following recommendations were derived from implementation
experience:
-    effective extension service must be provided, particularly during the
immature period and early tapping years;
-    timely adjustment of subsidy rates to replanting cost is necessary to
maintain an adequate level of incentives for project participants to
carry out the essential operations;
-    in addition to the provision of adequate inputs and technical advice,
market price of rubber must be renumerative in order to encourage
farmers to replant and maintain their holdings satisfactorily;
-    technical competence of staff needs to be periodically upgraded
through training and study tours;
-    visits of mobile units to project area should be adopted in order to
deal with land registration and farmers' problems more expeditiously.
66.        The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the project
period was satisfactory es indicated in Section 10 of Part I.
1/ Proparod by Ministry of Plantation Industries - GOSL.



17
PART III
A. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit/TIttl                 PMr                                        Approval      Sta  tus
Tree Crop Rehab. (Te)    To  eprove econosic efficiency of too             1978       Completed           Estate improvesnt has
Project (Cr.818-CE)          ;ndustry and to ieprove tee quality.                                         been a succoe  whil*t
private teo fnctory and
sma Iholder componente
wore a failure.
Fourth Treo  Crop Project  To increass  production of too, rubber          1985       On-going            The physical progrese of
(Cr 1562-CE)                and coconuts by rehabilitating                                                the project is
production  aci lities and improving the                                     sati factory.
perforew'ce of JED8 end SPC.
Second Smellholder Rubber To increase production and improve               1988       On-going            The project io a follow-up
Dev. Project (Cr.1909-CE) quality of coaliholder rubber through                                           to Cr.1017-CE and in
provision of replanting inputs and                                           pro9rae ins
incentives and strengthening of                                               etafactorily.
agencies concerned.
B. Project Timetable
I te                             Dats Planed                       Dae  Rwevied                       Actual Date
Identification                   Auguat 1978                                                          September 1978
Preparation                                                                                           February 1979
Appraisal *i--ion                September 1979                                                       October 1979
Credit negotiation               March 1980                         April 1980                        April 1980
Board approval                   November 1979                     Nay 1980                           May 1980
Credit signature                 -                                                                    Jun  1980
Credit effectiveness                                                                                  Septe.bor 1980
Credit closing                   June 1986                          June 1987                         June 1988
Credit cosplotion                -                                                                    March 1989  jJ
/     Extnded by three months beyond the customary 6-month grace period, due to disruption in disbursoeant proiessing as a
rosult of civil disturbsnces.
C.  Credit Disbursements
Cumiative Estiut and Actual Disbursement (USS million)
Project Yer  198           198        1982       1968        19"          196         116         1967         16          196o
*Caled
ear)
Appraisal      0.2         1.3        8.0        5.2         8.8          18.0        16.0        -            -           -
estimate
Actual  j/    -           0.3         0.8        1.8         3.4         6.5          7.5         9.4          11.0        11.1
Actual as I   -           23.1        26.7      34.6         41.0        42.3         46.9        68.7         68.8        69.4
of estimate
Date of final March 1,
disburse-      1989
aent;
/      Source. World Bank Loan Departeent; Report ID:LOA 1069 of 6/28/89.
Comments
67. Based on a project revision during 1985, US$4.0 million was cancelled from
the credit account by reducing the unallocated account by US$2.0 million and the
allocation to Category I (replanting payments to smallholders) by US$2.0 million.
The cancellation was made effective by January 17, 1986.   The disbursement
schedule, however, was not changed. Against this revised disbursement figure
of US$12.0 million, the actual disbursement amounted to 92.5Z.



18
D. Project Implementation
Key Indicators               Unit         SAR             Revised         Actual
Target           Target 1/
Planting                      ha        18,800             18,810         18,800
Civil Works:
ASD
Staff quarters               no.          78                 69              69
Divisional offices           no.            -                 6               6
Fertilizer stores            no.            3                 3               3
Training Institute           no.           1                  1               1
RCD
Regional offices             no.            3                 3               3
Staff quarters               no.           -                  2               2
Nurseries                    no.            -                 3               3
Nursery/house-cum-office    no.             -                 3               3
Vehicles:
ASD
Trucks                       no.          10                 10              10
Mobile publicity units       no.            3                 3               3
4-wheel drive vehicles       no.          19                 18             18
Passenger cars               no.           3                  3               3
Motorcycles                  no.           92                43              43
Bicycles                     no.         108                 27             27
RCD
4-wheel drive vehicles       no.           3                  6               6
Pick-up                      no.           -                  1               1
Passenger cars               no.           -                  2              2
Motorcycles                  no.            -                 1               1
PCU
4-wheel drive vehicles       no.           1                  2              2
Passenger cars               no.           1                  1               1
1/ Revision of 1986.
.. 



19
lay Indicators               Unit         SAR             Revised         Actual
Target            Target
RRI
Cross-country vehicles       no.          16                  4               4
4-wheel drive vehicles       no.           2                  2              2
Equipments
ASD
Tree pullers                 no.          63                 63             90
Film production              no.           3                  3              3
RCD
Computers                    no.           -                  5              5
RRI
Laboratory air conditioners no.           15                 15             15
Humidifiers                  no.           6                  6              6
Photographic equipment       lot         lot                lot            lot
Film production              no.           3                  3               3
Group Processing Centress
Existing                     no.          67                 67             67
New                          no.          50                 15             15
Study Tourst
ASD                          no.          20                 25              24
RCD                          no.           5                 13             13
PCU                          no.           1                  5              3
Post Graduate Courses
and Fellowships:
RRI                          no.           5                  5              5
ASD                          no.           2                  2              2
RCD                          no.           -                  9              9
PCU                          no.           2                  3              3
Staffing:
PCU
Project Coordinator          no.           1                  1              1
Project Accountant           no.           1                  1              1
Project Officer              no.           1                  1              1
Senior Clerk                 no.           1                  1              1
ClerklTypist                 no.           3                  1              1
Drivers                      no.           2                  2              2
Peon                         no.           1                  -              -



20
Key Indicators               Unit         eKR             Revised         Actual
Target            Target
RCD
Deputy Controller            no.                              3               3
Sr. Assistant Controller    no.                               3              3
Assistant Controller         no.           8                  8               8
Accountant                   no.            3                 3               3
Office Assistant             no.           3                  4               4
Clerical Officer             no.         139                 92             92
Stenographer                 no.           3                  3              3
Typists                      no.           6                  6              6
Minor employees              no.            -                13              13
Drivers                      no.           -                  4               4
ASD (Head Office)
Director                     no.           1                  1              1
PA to Director               no.           1                  1              -
Deputy Director (field)      no.           1                  _               _
Publicity Officer            no.           1                  1              1
Film Operator                no.           3                  5              5
Head, Supplies Division      no.           -                  1              1
Head, Processing Advisory  no.             1                  1              1
Deputy Director              no.           1                  -              -
(Training/Admin.)
Chief Admin. Officer         no.           1                  1               1
Assistant Accountant         no.           1                  1               1
Clerk/Typist                 no.           3                  9              9
Head - Training Division   no.             1                  1              1
Assist. Training Officer   no.             1                  1               1
Watcher/Cook                 no.           2                  2               2
Drivers                      no.           9                 11             11
Peons/Labourers              no.           2                  2              2
Cleaners                     no.           -                  2              2
ASD (Regional Offices)
Sr. Processing Advisors      no.           3                  3              3
Clerk/Typist                 no.           6                  6              6
Labourers                    no.           3                  3              3
ASD (Divisional Offices)
Div. Extension Officers      no.           3                  9         9+2 1/
Processing Advisors          no.           9                  9         9+2 1/
Clerk/Typists                no.           9                  9              9
ASD (Range Office)
Rubber Extension Officers no.            121                121             77
1/ Paid by ASD grant.



(1)   Project Cost
Apraieal Etimt                      Revised tuimat./                            ctal
.... ... ( elIIio)  . . . .   .    .....(      . (OM SIIoa)  .....            . . . . .  (USI Sillion) .
Local      Foreign     Total          Lcal        Foweign     Total          LOCal        Foreign       Total
Raplanting Coat:
Budded stumpa                        1.43        0.07         1.50           1.31       0.07         1.38          1.03         0.05           1.08
Fertilizers                          0.82        3.30         4.12           0.4S       1.93         2.41          0.32         1.27           1.59
Labour and other input.              6.77        0.14         6.91           9.42       0.19         9.61          9.01         0.18          9.19
Total NPlwating CA*t                   9.C2        3.51        12.53           11.21      2.19        13.40          10.86        1.30          11.86
InstitUtioel SkpgOrt:
AM,iar  Services Dept. (A8D)
CiIl wo k.                          0.67       0.19        0.76           0.70        0.24        0.94           0.63         0.21          0.84m
Equipment *nd vehicles             0.04        0.50        0 54           0.22        0.29        0.51           0.23         0.30          0.53
Staffing                            1.02       -           1.02           0.91        -           0.91           0.88         -             0.b8
Operating coat                     0.18        0.32        0. SO          0.31        0.46        0.77           0.33         0.49          0.82
Total - ASD                           1.41       1.01        2.tl2          2.14        0.99        3.13           2.07         1.00         3.07
Dept. of IbAba - Control (O)
Civil aortaD                        0.04       0.01        0.05           0.20        0.07        0.27           0.53         0.18          0.71                 0
Equip_nt A vehicles                0.03        0.04        0.07           0.08        0.21        0.29           0.16         0.40          0.56                0      N
Staffing                           0.34        -           0.34           1.35        -           1.36           1.26         -             1.26
Operating coat                     0.05        0.04        0.09           0.31        0.19        0.50           0.76         0.47          1.23                 m
Tftal - ROD                          0.48        0.09        0.5i           1.94        0.47        2.41           2.71         1.06          8.76
Trainin:                                                                                                                                                           9'
Civi aor-                           0.06       0.03         0.09           0.04       0.08         0.12          0.08         0.04          0.12
Equipment                           0.01       0.07         0.08           0.01       0.04         0.05          0.01         0.06          0.07
Training coure,                     0.11       0.15         0.26          -                       -              -            -             -                    C
Totl - Trainleg                       0.18       0.Zi         0.4            O-.QC       i           ' a9.17       0.09         0.10          0.19                 5
Technical Aneiateac:                    0.01       v 08         :,0           -           0.4         0.24           -            0.02         0.02
Proceaing Comonent:                     0.11       0.08         0.19           0.13       0.29         0.42         0.04          0.08         0.12
_A eAr  Coonpnt:                        0.06      0.14         0.22           0.24       0.31         0.55         0.12          0.16         0.26
Project Coordination:                   0.06       0.04         0.12           0.13       0.04         0.17         0.19          0.07         0.26
Prject Evtaat^o:                        0.02       -            0.07           0.02       -            0.02         0.02          -            0.02
TOI8L   E t                            11.77   S .20           16.97          15.86       4.66        20.U1          -            --
Phlysical Contingencies                 0.40       0.13         0.53           0.32       0.10         0.42
Price Contingencies                     8.46       2.04        10.50           1.75       1.22         2.97          -            -
TOTAL PR0.T   COST                     20.63       7.37        28.00          17.93       S.97        23.90          15.60        3.90          19.58
1/ Figures in US1 wvar derived from actual rupee figure. as provided by MPI. Smal l diacrepancies aer due to conversion and rounding.



22
(2)   Project Financing
Sourcc                       Plannd                       Rcvised                       FILal
USS M          (%)          USS M           ()            USS M           (%)
IDA (Total)                         16.0          57.1          12.0           50.0           11.1           56.6
1. Replanting payments to           11.2                         9.2                          8.S
smallholders
2 avil work                         1.1                          1.1                           1.0
3. Vehicles, equipment and          1.1                          1.1                           1.2
materials
4. Consultants' services and        0.3                          0.3                           0.4
overseas training
S. Unallocated                      23                           03
GOSL (rotal)                        12.0          42.9          1U0            50.0            8.5           43.4
TOTAL                               28.0          100.0          24.0          100.0          19A            1o0.
F.    ProJect Results
(1)   Direct Benefits
Indicatos                          Unit         Apprisal stimte    EFtimate at Closing Date        Estimate at Fuil
Dcvebpmeot
Replanting 1/                       no.               27,000                  35,046                   35,046
Processing 2/                       no.               6,000                    3,500                    4,900
E'mployment                        jobs               9,500                    4,500                   11,000
1/ Number of smaliholders beneritting from replanting component.
2/ Number of smallholders benefitting from processing componenL
(2) Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate                         PCR
Economic Rate of Return:                                                 23%                              18% 1/
Underlying Assumptions:
1. Incremental annual rubber production                             25,000 tons                          19,500
2. Intercropping (mainly with bananas)                         11% of rubber area                  13% of rubber
area
3. Expected benefits from up-grading of                               Included                         Excluded
rubber through better processing
4. Production foregone as a result of                                     Yes                              Yes
uprooting and replanting of rubber
is fully costed for the estimated
remaining productive life of the
plantation (five years).
5. Period of analysis                                                 30 years                         30 years
1/ See Table 1.



23
Comments:
The re-evaluation was carried out using constant 1990 prices using World Bank
Commodity Price Forecasts for 1995. On this basis, tne economic price for rubber was
estimated at Rs39.7/kg and the economic price for compound fertilizer at Rs8.4/kg. All
local costs, excluding labour, were converted into border prices using the standard
conversion factor of 0.91 and labour at a specific CF of 0.75.
(3)   Financial Impact
SAR Estimate                          Actual
Financial rate of return to Government,
including overhead costs.                                                13.7%                            12% 1/
1/ See Table 2.
(4)   Studies
Studies                                                        Purpose as Defined                         Status
at Appraisal
1. Socio-economic Conditions of Rubber                             Baseline Study                  Completed May
Smallholders in Sri Lanka                                                                              1984
2. Innovation, Receptivity and Adoption                              Case Study                    Completed May
in Rubber Smallholders of Sri Lanka                                                                    1986
3. Smallholder Rubber Replanting in Sri                              Case Study                    Completed June
Lanka: Trends, Problems and Factors                                                                    1986
Influencing Their Decision
Comments: See para 6.16 for more details.
G.   Status of Covenants
Ctedit                               Subjeet                             Deadlime ror Cinpliaac         Status
eat
3.02    Borrower to employ consultants                                             -               Complied with
3.06A    Borrower to cause all group processing cent.ms (Part C) to be          03/31/81            Complied with
established and organized.
3.06B    No new GPC to be established in the project area until members                             Complied with
have pledged to collectively supply not less than 100 kg per day of
operation.
3.07A    Borrower to establish Advisory Services Department wtthin               01/0181            Complied with
Ministry of Plantation Industries.
3.07B    Borrower to establish Rubber Policy and Planning Unit.                 01/01/81            Complied with
3.07C    Borrower to establish Rubber Policy Review Committee.                  01/01/81               Deleted
4.02    Audit accounts/repotts due to IDA not later than 12 months after           -               Complied with
end of fiscal year.
4.03    Borrower to appoint accounting staff required to implement the         01/01/81             Complied with
project.
4.04A    Borrower to review annually financial resources of replanting              -               Complied with
scheme, results to IDA.
4.04B    Borrower to provide replanting fund with resourmes to finance              -               Complied with
project implementation.



H.   Use of Bank Resources
k      9Wkp*  1J
Task          Pre-fY78       FY78        FY79         FYM          FY81        FY2         FYM3         FYN4         FY65        FY8s        FY87         FY88        FY8W         FY90        Totat
LENP             0.2          0.7         62.4         9.5                       -                                                             -                        -            -          72.8
LENA              -            -           -          69.5                                                            .            -           -            -                        -          69.5
LENN                                                   4.4 4N4
LOP                                       0.3         8.1                                    -                        -                  -           -                               -           8.5
SPN               -                                    0.3         11.4         7.0         10.2         5.5         7.5          4.8         9.3         11.7          *           0.1         67.7
PCR                                                     - -         -            -                                    -                                                                            9-  -  O
PAD                                        -           0.1         0.4           -                                   0.1                                                             -           0.6
Total            0.2         0.7         6z7          92.0         11a8         7.0         10O.2                    7.6          4.8         9.3         11.7         Os9          0.1        224.3
1/ Staft weeks, recorded by tiscal year/activity, excluding Trust Fund consultants (net of overtime).
LENP  Actihties prior to Appraisal.
LENA * Activities related to Appraisal
LENN - Negotiation activities.
LOP   Pre-appraisal and Appraisal work by Country Department.
SPN   Supervision time.
PCR * PCR preparation time.
PAD   Project administration work during Supervision stage.
EL Misalane
MoefVaf 1/                 No.d Persons 2/                I"s Iield            SpedD  tlu  Represented 31      Pwutrmmice tfV 4/             Ths of Ptoblebm
Pre-ideniticatlon                        4118                          3                           18                         E.E,A
Ident,ticatbornPreparatlon               9/78                          4                           20                        A,A.E.P
Pre-appraisaJ mission                    8/79                          3                           10                         A.E.E
Appraisal mission                       10/79                          4                           23                        E.R,T.AC
Supervision t                            7/80                          1                           6                            E                            1
Supervision 2                            3/81                          1                           7                            E                            1
Supervision 3                            2/82                          1                           6                            E                            1
Supervision 4                           10/82                          1                           9                            E                           2
Supevision 5                             5/83                                                      6                            E                           2
Supervision 6                           12/83                          1                           6                            E                           2
Supervrsion 7                            8/84                          1                           8                            E                           2
Supervision 8                           5/85                           1                           10                           E                           2
Supervision 9                           11/85                          1                           12                           E                           2
Supervision 10                          4/86                           1                           7                            E                           2
Supervsion 11                           11/86                          2                           9                           E.T                          2
Supervision 12                          10/87                          4                           23                        E.T,AC.E                       2
Supersi5ion 13                           5/88                          1                           6                            T                           2
1/ Date of ret,eun to headquarters
2i Multiple pturpose missions marked (-)
3/ A - Agriculturist. AC . Accounting Specialist E * Economist. P . Processing Specialist. T . Tree Crop Specialist.
4/ 1 . Problem-tree or minor problems. 2 - Moderate problems. 3 - Major problems



Sri tanka
Smaltholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Economic Analysis
Mitlion Rs.
.....................................   ........................................... ..................................................................... ............................................................................................ .. . ...... ... ............
1981      1982      1983       1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      1989      1990       991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997      1098       1999      2000      2001       2002
.................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................... ...............
Total benefits
..............
Rubber                         -28.8    -53.7    -62.3    -64.0    -56.5                -     23.1      80.4    151.6    232.7    332.8    440.3    538.5    614.6    673.6    719.1    750.6    768.5    775.4    770.5    752.8    727.5
Banana                              -       3.8      10.6      17.3       19.2      18.4      18.4       15.9      10.9       4.3        1.0
Wood                            14.1       17.5      14.2      16.9       20.3      13.9      10.6        2.3          -              -               -         -         -         -          *         -         -          -         -         -          -
Total benefits                  14       -32.5       37.6      29    -17 1          32 3      52.0      98.5    162.5    237.0    333.7   440.3    538.5    614.6    673.6    719.1    750.6    768.5    775.4    770.5    752.8    727.5
Total costs
...........
Overheads/Project                  -      0.7        9.0      11.5      15.3       25.9      30.5      27.9      28.3       29.2      19.7      19.7       18.3       8.5        1.6         -          -         -         -          -         -
Rubber investments              64.9       89.0      86.1    111.1    139.5    116.3    100.0           59.6       39.2      24.6      12.3        3.5       0.4          -
Banana investments                0.5       0.8       0.7        0.7       0.7       0.7       0.4        0.1          -
P,-oduc. costs/rutber          -17.6    -31.1    -30.9    -30.5    -28.3                      14.9      35.2       55.7      82.0    117.0    153.9    188.1    211.7    232.3    249.5    260.5    266.4    264.0    259.6    256.1    251.8
Prodt-. costs/banana             0.9        1.9       2.8        3.3       3.3       3.4       2.7        1.9       1.0       0.4       0.1 .       .  .                            . ...               .               .    - .                  -
lotal project costs             48.7      61.2       67.5      96.0    130.5    146.2    148.3    124.6    124.1    136.1    149.1    177.0    206.8    220.2    233.9    249.5    260.5    266.4    264.0    259.6    2,6.1    251.8
Net project benefits           -63.4    -93.7   -105.0   -125.8   -147.6   -114.0    -96.3    -26.1                38.4    101.0    184.7    263.4    331.8    394.5    439.7    469.6    490.2    502.2    511.4    510.9    496.8    475.7
.........    ..................................................................
2003      2004      2005       2006      2007      2008       2009      2010
.......................................................................tera RtsofeunofmtSews
Total benelits                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nternal Rates of Return of Met Streamns
Total  benefits                                                                                                                                          ..a..a
Rubber                         706.8    686.0    665.0    639.7    615.9    583.7    541.6    488.4                                  NTOT;                           18.34x
Banana-                                        -         .         -.                             . 
Wood                                 -         -         -          .         -              -      -
Tntal benefits                 i06.8    686.0    665.0    639.7    615.9    583.7    541.6    488.4                                                                    AL1
Total  costs                                                                                                                                                        APPRAISAL       SWITCHING        PERCENTAGE
Overheadq/Project                  -         -          '         '         -                                                       STREAM4                       VAtUE            VALUE            CHANGE
Rubber  investments                                                                     *7 *                                         BTOT                      1;587.44          1.093.17           -31.142
Baonana  investments                .          .         .         .          . 
Produc. costs/rutter           246.8    243.3    240.6    240.0    240.0    240.0    240.0    240.0                                  CtOTT                      1,093.17         1.587.44            45.22S
Produc. co%ts/baiiana               -                    -         -
....... ....... ....... ....... ..... .                .... ....... ...................................
Total project costs            246.8    243.3    240.6    240.0    240.0    240.0    240.0    240.0                                  Net Present Value at O0C 122 = 494.3
Internal Rate of Return = 18.4%
Couipon Equivalent Rate of Return = 18.5%
H.t project benetfits          460.1    442.8    424.4    399.7    375.9    343.7    301.6    248.4
. ........................... .... .. ...... .......... .... .... ..................



Table 1,1
Page 1 of 3
26
SRI LANKA
Smaalholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
TABLE 1.1 Rubber Crop Model
YIELDS AND INPUTS
(PER Na)
Crop year
.....................................
Existing Technology
~~~~.... .. .......... _
Unit    1      2     3     4      5   6 to30
Yield                                Kg      300   250   200   150   100
Investment
Operating
Ancids                         liter      3      3     2      1     1
Fire wood                   CU.Yd       9     9      6     4      3       -
Labor
Processing                  manday    10    10    10       5      5        -
Smooking                    manday      4      4     3     2      2
Marketing                   mnanday     3      3     2     2      1
Tapping                     manday   200   150   100    75    50
Junc 5  1990  10:40



.~~~~                                           ~
a                                          la
I~~~~~~~'L 
*--- *----- ...               .....                      1. 
.  ....       .   ..              ...t.....          ... . 3
*-.......1...
*.:.                   .                        . ::
..,,,...,, . ..,,,.             .. ..,..   I  .     .  ..  .   .
.                  .......... ........
O%AJCUOR.........                              .I!...
~ io
.C..4a                  ..      .... ...... ........                       *;   .
. . .. . . .. . . .  .   . .   .                      .
8 ~ 2.;     i;  ....              ..   w......       ..  ..3...e.
8~21b. ...--.'...''''                                                       s|<   
*.                                                                             I  :'  *      _
o>S*. o ...........    o........o@Xs  s  g  ~' M  a.:
j  -wu.o  g........  ..                               .....           O| 
0000 00||o. . .    . . , , , ,,.. . . . .      . . . . . . . . |j}n 
..........I
_ _
j i-wo ..o.                        . .  .......  ........
i.Loo*o.44..   t       q         ...........  ........
L#4 ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....
Lor *. ;                     ......                    ......
o*^e ; ~..  .... .0....  ........                               S      o    I 
:~~~~. .                     .   .   .  .       . . . . . . . .: 
UT ' T aql 



SRI LANKA
Semitholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
TABLE  LI   RtLber Cr   Model.
TI ELOS ARD INP6S
(PER Ha)
Crop year
Icrieiretat
unilt     I       2      3       4       5      6      7     8      9    10    11    12    13         14    iS tol?7   18        19    20   21 to 2223          24    25    k6    2?    28    29    30
...........    ..........   ........  ..    ..    ..    ..    . .. 2.2..                                                sum.22.  ..-.--=-..a- -. -m......  ... 5  2nD3-.
Yield                                   Kg       -300   -250   -200   -150   -100    - 240   540   670   765   855   945   990   1,000    1,080   1,030   990   945                       855   890   880   850   720   700   550   500   400
By Produtst
Wood                              value    6,400         -       -- 
Inrveoteunt
inputs
Planting mterials               kg.        I5        -                                                      --
Cover crops                     kg.        18I      5       0      85      85
Urea mix                        4.         17      20      So      03      85
fence posts                    No.:        200                                                              -
Barbed wire                   50 kg.       7.5       --- 
Masttes (8 10)                  Ho.          2       ----
Crow bars 667 TB                No.         1I                                                                         -
Axes                            No.          I       -       ---
labor
Uprooting                     manday       130       -       -- 
Linirnglpeging                 "day          2       -       -- 
Drsi naoe                     wnday         50-SD- 
Teraigwinday                                44       -       --
fencing                       wAnday        IS       -                                                 -
Holing                        mauday        55       -       -- 
Planting                      amnday        16       -       -- 
Planting cover crops          wmdy           4       -               ---
Fert. application             may 5  20  20  20  20 --
Weedin                          riday      123      60      60      45      30  25
Suendry                       mady           4       4       5       5       5    5
Operatinge
''Auctid.                        liter        .3      .3      -2      -1      -1           2      3     4      4      5      6      6        6         6     -6              5          5     5      5      5      5      5     5      5      5
Coglting pens               No.          -       -               -       -           4      4      4     4- 
=.Wt at 11  No.                                                    I~            I                                   -         -
fire wood                       :Yd         49      .9      -6      -4      -3    -      6      7      8    10    12    16    16          16        16       16    14    14          14    14    14    14    14    14    14    14    14
Labor
Weeding/cl. tapping paths    ndy             -        -      -       -       -     -     5      5--
Marking trees                  mady-                                 -       -     -     2      2-                                                            .-                             -      -
Process,ing                    anay         10    .10    -10         5      .5          10    12    14    15    18    20    20            20        20       20    19    19          19    19    19    19    19    19    19    19    19
Smok ing                       sady          4      -4      -3      -2      -2           2      2      2      4     4      5      5        5         5        5      4      4         4      4     4      4      4      4      4      4      4
Marketing                      snday        .3      .3      -2      -2      -1           3                           4     5 "  "                    5        '      4-     4         4      "      4     4      4      4      '      "      '
lapping                       =andy         0 M    150   -100      -75    -50          150   180   220   250   320   400   400           400       400      400   360   360         360   360   360   360   360   360   360   360   360
Jiete 5, 199   10:40
OQ V
(DI-



29                                                  Table  1.2
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
Smtitholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
TABLE 1.2 Rubber Crop Model
FINANCIAL IDGET
(In Rs. PER Ha)
Crop year
............................ ........................................ .........
Existing Technology
...............................................
1       2        3        4       5    6 to 30
Revenue
Main Production
Rubber                       5 47i..0 4,562.5 3 650.0 2 737.5 1 825.0
Sub-Totol Revenue                  5,475 0 4,562.5 3:650.0 2:737.5 1:825.0
Inputs
OperAtcid                          90.0    90.0    60.0    30.0    30.0
Fire wood                      720.0   720.0   480.0   320.0   240.0
.......    .......... .......    ........... ..... i;...... ..... ...................... ...
Sub-Total Operating               810.0   810.0   540.0   350.0   270.0
...... ....... ....... ....... ....... .....
Sub-Total Inputs                     810.0   810.0   540.0   350.0   270.0
INCOME (Before Labor rosts)        4,665.0 3,752.5 3,110.0 2,387.5 1,555.0
Labor
INCOME (After Labor Costs)         4,665.0 3,752.5 3,110.0 2,387.5 1,555.0
...........  ................................................................... ..1
Jurwe 3,19   10:40



Ut1 LAW)
smIIteoldsrL4b Ot  41tr0.bLtsOlutm project
TAME  1    Rifler OrU T"*
lIft ON. PE0 Is)
VaW !icl olgy
1   2         3       AceoS   6       7        8        9        IC        Ii1       12        13        14    IS to l      Is    -9           20    21 te22    23          26        25 ....26           27 ..     28.Z    29       3
Rifler                                  -             - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,30.0 9,030.0 i2.22n.s 13,961.s I5,60s.a 17,246.3 18,067'.5 18,250.0 19,710.0 18,797.5 18,067.  17,246.3 15,603.8 16.24231 16,060.0 15,512.5 13,140.0 12,775.0 10,037.59,123.0 7,300.0
or Preatle
Stiltfell Rmup6,400.0                                                             4,380.0 9,855.0 12,227.5 11,961.3 I5,603.8 I7, 246.3I 8,067.5 18,2M.0 19,710.0 18, 707. 586,067.5 17,246.3 11,603.8 16,242.5 16,000.0 15,512.5 13,140.0 12,77.0 10.037.5 9.125.0 7,300.0
route
Pltmtlop evtterlal              2.9j0.0    29.M                                                                        -         .-.-                                                                                                              
U.                       6         900  1,8000  3,150.0                  -       ...-                                                                           .        -         -         -..
96w.   20415   3,6w.0                                   -   ~   ~   ~   ~~        ~~        ~~~                                    ~ ..   . . .   . . .   . ...  .. .... . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . .... . . .. . . .- . .. .. . .. .  . ...-.. . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .   . . .
Cr:1 bu "to 06  78               941                                                                                                                                   .         .                             .        -         -         -
"WVI  ea                                                                        00.5    90.0    120.0    sao.o    150.0    180.0    110.0    1810.0    I800           180.      110.0    150.0    150.0    150.0    150.0    150.3    150.0    150.0    550.0   1500   5100
Fire weed                                                                    48.0 00.0    6400    800 0    96000  I  801200520028080012001180    ,2.   .2.    ,1001100110.    ,2.    , .   1,20.0 1,120.0 1,12kB                                                                      LA
0th-Total 95eretiAo                                                           I 002.5   910.0  1,2175  1,245.0  1,1.0.  1,440.0  1.40.0  1, .460.0 1.00                ,440.0  1,270.0  1,270.0  1,7.0    ,7.    ,7.    ,7.    ,7.    ,7.    ,7.   ,7.  .7:
0th-Total lirpeI                      54,693.7  1,192.5   .00    3,550.0          1.002.5   910.0  127    1,205.0  1,110.0  5,460.0  1,400 0  1,060.0  1,460.0  1,440.              iT.0  1,270.0 1, 270.0 1, 270.0 1,27  .0  1,270 .0 1,270  .0  1,270 .0  1.270.0 1,7 .0 ,7.0 5,270.0
0005N (set"  Lao. Cello)              86.295. 7 -1,192.5 -1,8010.0 -3,55.0       3,557.5 8,905.0 11,010.0 12,716.3 14,495.0 15,7816.3 16.607.5 16,190.0 18,2510.0 17,337.5 16,197.5 15,976.3 14,333.8 14.972.5 14,790.0 54,242.5 11,870.0 11,505.0  8,767.5 7,055.0 6,030.0
Iktweotwet O ."~
tab- fetal Leber                       32000                     -                                                            .         .         .         .        .         .         .                                                            
INCOW  lifter Labo  Ceetsel           53,495. 7 - 1,192.5  .1,W().0   3,550O.0    3.3317.5 8,905.0 11,010.0 12,756.3 14,493.8 155706.1  16,607.5 16,190.0 18.20.0.  57,337.5164,97.5 15,976.3 14,335,8 14,972.5  4,9.0 14.242.5 11,070.0 11,05030  8,767.5 7.035.0 6,030.0
Jun    1990  10:40



-IE  IZOOIcry    1
a,, 97c1.m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.pow
.............................           ....    ...    ................... . . . . . . . . . . . .,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,, ,,.,,,,.,. I.................. , ,'re r ....................................... .............................. . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .. . . . .. .........            .... i......     .......   ....... i.........   ................     .......      .......       i...................................... ...................................................... I!. .. .. .. ..
.... ......,, '.,, .......  ..., '..  .. ..._ .   . ... .  .. ..... '_''! ' .......  . 7                                                                                                      2_2.:2 .-i   -i -    _X          -Z_ r . 
,471.0 s  . -14S  .s -3.4o0.0 -2n.737.  -1.021.0          4.33.0 9.81..0 12,22*.  13e.31.1  "1.33.& 1,246.3  16.06s,. 1o.0                   f9I0..0210,0  19,10.6   10,*r . S IF.,246.3 1S, .6 16.242.S 16,2o.0 IS. 13.112.1.i        .0 12.M.0 10.957.1S  0.t.0 ?.30
iy P,o.dxl*
W.6                                 ,..00.0..
&0 1640llL i.e.on, I2.  -4.3621   3.6)0o.0,  2.737.s 1.4n0 .0                                       4.0000' I9.0l9.0  12.227.S 13.061.S 1160.0L  17.2661  18006111010    9.5, 14.S.4W"           .4 I .M.S 30.06.S 11.246.1.  1603.6 14.26.1  16,066.0 1.1313.140.0 10a3.m.  10                         79.16010 130i
PIwu,.$ 061.7101                   2.p           M
C00f1',_ r*l                         2               .
urm   IR'0                                       w.    ,m7.0   S,150.0  1,150.0
M     IIWO ~ ,                  14,40.   1.192.1   1.00   0 1.0                                      .                                      .                               .                               .                                                               
cp": *61 in  r_u                      *0c.0      *90.0     o60.0       2o0 a      S30.0         60.0         2010         !01           IS1.0    n.0        120.0     13.0        0.0       ue.0o    IS0.6       150.0     r,.o       no.0       310.0      ISO.      150.0 1    1o.0       11n0.0    15.0   IS0
Mp .   .        .k0                                                                                                     . :a..               :                                                                                                                                          :
70        120.0       430       3200       2400        ,os      40.             090.0  i1.28.0   3.20.,0  I.M3.0   IM.0   1,21.0  1,120.0   12n.0   1. 0.'  1.13.0   1. In.'   1.1.0  '.100.0   1,10.   1,10.0 1                                                     ..  1.120
i  O  (se0it 1   ,r CftILO             -12,9*07  4,9*%S.0 ,4.9100   1.331   4.11.0                3.311.5 0,941.0 11,010.0 la,116.3 14.493,  is.33.3  44.               s 40 .1, .0  ls.3.1 ir.327.s I&,7.s 1s.7s.. 143.6 14,97n.1  I1.M.r  4242.1  11s,01.e 11.1                                S.1..  ?7.an.0 6.0
'NW
uprreztr4~~~~~2                 :  s..zoo..     .    ..                           ,..,,.                                    ..    ....  ..    ...  ..,.     .......        ,,   , ,..,,,,:  .......  .. .. .,  .......  .. . .  .......
44-110 I ee.e.le
04010101  1331                               *03.0
iCUo      4fo,r *o0  C"eti               IS. 10 7 .4,94S.0  4,910.0  S1W7.1   4.71..0              3,317.1 0,04.D0 11,010.0 12,716.1 14,403.0 13.3.3 16,o07.s 16. o..00.210.0 17.533.s 16,797.Sn  15,91 s. 34.353.0 14.97.) u,n9.0 14u,242.1 I r.0o.0  11.50.0  0,6.?S1  7,0s3.o 6.010
.   .... .... .... ..... .                           ..  . ..   ...        .           . .. .  .   ........    .... . .   .   .   ......  ... .....  ..  .................    ...     ............................... .........................     ...........   .....     . . ..............  .     ... ....  ................ .......... 
J,.  1, 1990   10:40



Sri tanka
Sinallhotder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
, ......................................
Finarncial  ROR
.     .     ..     .     ..     .. ............. .....................  ,............................             ................................................................. .. ...  :................................    ........................................................ ... .....................
1980       1981       1982        1983       1984       1985       1986        1987       1988       1989       1990       1991        1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       1W9        2000       2001
.  ..         .  ..  ...  ............                      ....                  ....        ....                  ....       ....             ............           ....       ....       ....       ....       ....       ....        ....       ....       ....       .........................................................
TOtat b,reefits
Revenue  from re s                                   1.6        3.1        3.4         3.3      *4.7        -3.7        O.S        3.1         7.4       1.         15.7       19.3       22.2       23.9       31.6        25.5      25.8        25.6       25.0       24.3       23.3
Revenue  frm  Evport duty                           -?.1      -18'5    -22.8          -5.9      -11.2      -S.6,        -39        23 5       57 8       91 1      12. 2       149.7 17     1 7      184 9    246a         197 4    20O 0         198.5      193 7    187.8        180.6
Total benefits                               -      -8.6      -21.6      -26.1        -9.1      -15.8      -19.2        -4.4       26.5       65.2      102.9    136.9        169.0       193.9    208.8    278.3    222.9    225.8    224.1    218.7    212.1                     203.9
Total custi
R,plt;t'ng payiments                                11.7       36.6       46.2        45.6       73.9       67.0        66.8       36.2       41.1       31.7       20.4        11.0        2.2                                  .
Amn.n  Overheads                          1.6       18.8       23.6       26.0        36.7       52.5       42.7        38.2       33.4       17.9       17.9        14.3        4.9        0.9
Ferit izr  subsidy,  1/                              0.2         I11        32         3.         4.5         6.1        80         89         91             -                     .          .                                              
rertillzer    ubsidy   1/      2  1  1  3  23 5 4 5 6 18 0 8 9 .  .... ,9 1.... ..... .... ..... 9.                 ....................... ........................... ...............................................
totai pioject costs                       1.6       30.6       61.2       75.3       8'.7       129.8      115.7    112.9          78.4       68 .1      49.6       34.7        15.9        3.1
Nut GC'SL revenues
..    .....   ......  .....
tIict projlect  benefits                 -1.6      -39.2      -82.8   -101.4         -94.8   -145.6   -134.9   -117.2             -51.9      -2.9        53.3      102.2       153.1      190.8    208.8    278.3    222.9            225.8    224.1        21b.7    212.1         203.9
=,= -: ======  .====_--=== ====--===-====-=     =    =    =         = = = =                 = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =                                                 ====                  ===           ===,_============2 == .=
......    .....................................................................
2002       2003       2004       2005        2006       2007       2008        2009                                   Internal  Rtles  of Return  of Net_ Sreaams
lut.al t,. ci tv Ft,                                                                                                                                             N1012                              12.14%
RCv.r,ut  *-ce1 cc-tS                    22.2       20.8       20.3       20.0        19.5       19.0        17.8       I5.5
even.n.,  f(roe  Expurt duty            171.5    161.1        157.3      154.7    150 6         147.0      138.0    120.1
....................................................                                                                                           SWILTCRING  VAIUES Al 1T 7.
G.141  cre-rflti                        193.7    181.9    177.6          174.7    170.1         166.0      155.8    135.6                                                                                   --- ;13==
T .-.lr.                                                                                               S1REAfS APPRAISAL                                                                                         SwITCHING         PERCENTAGE
STREAM                          VASUE              VALUE             CHANGE
JIT                            413.04            406.V                1T.4 7
,,,,,   ut,-r(ly
E 01                          406.98            413.04                1.49.z
I  *  jt..t   I..                                                                        ..... ......      ...   ......
*N,   Prt c..i   VaLue  it OLC  12.    e,. I
$atIterixTli o.fe of. Retu' n  - 12.2.
at pw 'j t  f  A                  114.7      161.9    1/7t..        174.t          111.I    ItrS.O   155.o      135.                                    Co u     iee' tEuiv.llent Ratn  o0  Retest,   1.>ir.
-Tu'.s,  19W          ..                                           .  .                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 .
1/  FertiLizer subsidy discontinued from 1 January, 1990.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0



Tables 3.1 and 3.2
33
SRI LANKA
Smattholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
TABLE 3.1 Banan Cro0 Model
YIELDS AND INPUTS
(PER Ha)
Crop year
........... ..............................................................
Existing
Technology          New Technology                    Incremental
Unit        to30   1      2     3     4   5 to 30   1      2     3      4   5 to 30
222,=2    =:====   22=  2=23r= 323 C== 2======:           s:::- :=:= :==-:- :::=
Yield                              bunch.           -          200   240   220                  200   240   220
Investment
Inputs27                                                                          - 20-
Planting mat./banana           No.                 270                               270
Operating
InputS
Fertilizer (12:14:14)         kg.                  80   100   100    so              80   100   100    50
Comopost                      ton             .     2      -                          2     -
Labor
Holing                       manday           -    12      -     -     -             12
Planting                     manday           -    10         -        -             10     -     -
Applic. fertilizer/composr  manday                  3      4     4     2              3     4     4      2
Weeding                      manday           -    25    20    20    10         -    25    20    20    10
Harvesting/transport         manday           -            4     6     4                    4     6     4
.....    ;. .. . ................... ..................... .. . ... .. . .......... ................. . ... .. .......
June 5, 1990 10:22
SRI LANKA
Smaliholder RuLer Rehabilitation Project
TABLE  3.   Banana Crop Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Rs. PER Ha)
Crop year
......................................................
Existing
Technology         New Technology & Incremental
..... .............. ...........................................
I to 30    1          2        3         4      S to 30
=3==- *:===-2=  =2=222= ==2=:3,a  22=2=2z= 2=2==C,
Revenue
Main Production
Banana                                               16,000.0 19,200.0 17,600.0          -
Inputs
Investment
Planting mat./banana                     -  1,890.0         -         -         -        -
Operatin~g
Fertilizer (12:14:14)                   -    560.0    700.0    700.0    350.0
Compost                                       400.0
Sub-Total Operating                         -    96U.0    700.0    700.0    350.0           -
Sub-Total Inputs                               -2,850.0    700.0    700.0    350.0
INCOME (Before Labor Costs)                    - -2,850.0 15,300.0 18,500.0 17,250.0
Labor
Holing                                           600.0                                      -
Ptanting  ~    ~        ~        -    500.0                    -
Applic. fertilizer/compost                      150.0  1200.0  100.0    100.0
Weeding                                        1,250.0  1,000.0  1,000.0    S00.0
Sub-Total Labor                                -  2,500.0  1,200.0  1,200.0    600.0
INCOME (After Labor Costs)                     - -5,350.0 14,100.0 17,300.0 16,650.0            -
.........................................................................................
June 5, 1990 10:22



ikD 14733R
_-                            8 rn q O                                                   ro           -~~~~~~8   \                      tM/IR*tH
SRI LANKA                                                                                    INDtA!>
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                 ."s,.1
*   Proposed Gro,L Processng Centers                                              r''^w'r'*- '                        /
Etlsting                                                                                                       ,
*     Go.up Process.,g Centers
*     Commoday Pu,,chose Depots
*     Plontmng Moterrol Nurser es                                                                                   N^        A
Kegolle D.strct (16)                                                                                   Of
KaI,tz:)o Ds- .....  I0. !
Ratnop.ro DIstr-ct1') 7_                                                                                    ___.
0     D,str ct 01) ces
D st,,ct Boundorwes                                                                                                          7 30
_ ___  D.-ys.on Bsondories                      N                          -4?
Momn Roods/
Rodways
KlO:lMETERS 9                         2;                \
htlLESq                            t  1   \    K~~~EGALLE    
A.s.3r' *  \\    _gKAN DY
700  COLOMBO
7-00  COLOMBO  t/                                             '           ,\                                                                          7-00 -
/-Y\ >~~~~~~~~~
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\-' --X  t             GALLE
80 0' \  n .tuglo \....................................................................b0- C' 



