Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. P-277 7-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 16, 1980
This document hes . restricted dntstibution end mys be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wvithout World Bank autbioriz tbon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =   Rs 15.5 1/
Rs 1             =   US$0.064
Rs 1 million     =   US$64,102
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)              =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)              =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi.)   =   640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)              =   30.5 centimeters (cm)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARTI   -    Agrarian Research and Training Institute
ASD    -    Advisory Services Department
CPD    -    Commodity Purchase Department
DRC    -    Department of Rubber Control
GPC    -    Group Processing Center
JEDB   -    Janatha Estates Development Board
MPI    -    Ministry of Plantation-Industries
PCU    -    Project Coordination Unit
RPPU   -    Rubber Policy and Planning Unit
RPRC   -    Rubber Policy Review Committee
RRISL  -    Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka
RSS    -    Ribbed Smioked Sheet
SPC    -    State Plantations Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ At the time of appraisal. Current exchange rate is US$1 = Rs 16.30.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Amount:                 US$16 million equivalent.
Terms:                  Standard.
Project Description:   The project aims to increase rubber production in Sri
Lanka through the acceleration of an ongoing program of
replanting over-aged, low-yielding smallholder rubber.
It would strengthen the agencies involved in smallholder
rubber production and provide adequate replanting inputs
and incentives. The project also includes improvement
in rubber processing standards, expanded training facil-
ities and technical assistance. The project faces no
major risk. The problem of constrained implementation
capacity has been addressed by building up replanting
targets slowly over the project implementation period.
Estimated Cost: 1/                                     US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
A.  Replanting Costs            9.0      3.5     12.5
B. Institutional Support
Advisory Services
Department (ASD)         1.8      1.0       2.8
Department of Rubber
Control (DRC)            0.5      0.1       0.6
Subtotal               2.3      1.1       3.4
C. Training and Technical
Assistance                  0.2     0.3       0.5
D.  Processing and Research   0.2        0.2      0.4
E. Project Coordination
and Evaluation             0.1      0.1       0.2
Base Cost               11.8      5.2      17.0
Physical Contingencies  0.4       0.1       0.5
Price Contingencies      8.4      2.1      10.5
Total Project Cost         20.6     7.4      28.0
1/   Includes taxes and duties of US$0.25 million equivalent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:
IDA                               8.6     7.4    16.0
Government                       12.0       -     12.0
Total                            20.6     7.4    28.0
Estimated
Disbursement:          IDA FY        1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Annual          .8   1.3   1.9   2.6    3.9   5.5
Cumulative      .8   2.1   4.0   6.6   10.5  16.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             23%
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No.2827-CE, dated April 15, 1980



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
the equivalent of US$16.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a
smallholder rubber rehabilitation project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues
and Prospects" (Report No. 1939-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1978. An economic mission visited Sri Lanka
in December 1979 to prepare an economic report which is scheduled for distri-
bution in May 1980. This section draws on the preliminary findings of that
mission. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy
is experiencing rapid growth and unprecedentedly high levels of savings and
investment. This remarkable turnaround is explained by the Central Bank
of Ceylon as the "spontaneous reaction of a long repressed economy to its
liberalization by the new economic policies initiated in 1977." Until 1977,
Sri Lanka's growth performance was below both need and potential. Although
GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above the average for low
income countries, growth slackened sharply in the 1970-77 period to 2.9%
per annum, just below the average for low income countries. Through much of
this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding even these
modest gains: as a consequence, per capita gross national income rose by a
mere 0.9% per annum during the 1960-76 period. The slowdown in economic growth
in the 1970-77 period is attributable to a combination of factors, including
inadequate investment, poor management of the economy and a policy environ-
ment unconducive to growth and investment, which were compounded by bad weather
and a sharp rise in the cost of imported food and fuel.
4.        The three tree crops--tea, rubber and coconuts--which are still
the mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate in-
centives. These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate, introduced
in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncertainties
surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger estates.
After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and cropping
1/   This part is substantially the same as Part I of the Report and Recommen-
dation of the President to the Executive Directors on a proposed credit
to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka for a Road Passenger
Transport Project, Report No. P-2721-CE dated February 27, 1980.



- 2 -
intensities declined in the 1970s due to poor institutional support. Invest-
ment in manufacturing was low, and the inefficiency of most public and private
sector firms nurtured in a highly protected environment resulted in industrial
growth of less than 2% per annum. The only bright spots were subsidiary food
crops and industrial exports which benefited from good incentives.
5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and an uncontrolled increase in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public
investment. Private savings and investment were constrained by an unfavor-
able policy environment. The high incremental capital output ratio in the
1970s (5.5 as against 3.5 in the 1960s), reflected the fact that the invest-
ment that did take place was both inefficient and highly capital intensive.
6.        The poor growth rates and the slow changes in the structure of
output matched neither the jobs nor the changes in employment structure that
the labor force required. Slow output growth, the excessive capital intensity
of investment, the mismatch between the job aspirations of those with post-
primary education and the jobs available to them, the post war demographic
bulge, and rising female participation rates contributed to a massive increase
in open unemployment, estimated at over 1 million, or nearly 20% of the labor
force in 1977.
7.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality and half the birth rate that
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been adequate, and in the 1960s there were parallel gains in
income distribution.
8.         Improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in health
standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized food,
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age
of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline in fertility.
As a consequence, the growth rate of population has dropped from 2.6% per annum
in the 1953-63 intercensal period to 2.0% per annum in the 1963-73 period.
Allowing for net migration, population is currently increasing at only 1.7%
per annum.
9.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable initial
conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The
food ration was introduced in 194:2. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948,
Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy.
These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-Independence
period through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy,
which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s
and early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by harnessing
the surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconut),
which provided the Government with both an easy revenue source and foreign
exchange earnings. These surpluses began to disappear in the late 1960s as
government policies discriminated against these crops and the terms of trade



-3 -
deteriorated. With growth in other productive sectors in the economy also
decelerating in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary resources available for
social programs were squeezed by inelastic revenues and rapid inflation. As
a consequence, expenditures on social services other than the food subsidy
began to decline as a proportion of total current expenditures and GDP, threat-
ening the hard-won gains in health and education. In sum, the economy was no
longer generating the resources needed to sustain a large program of welfare
expenditures. Moreover, the very size of those programs reduced the scope
of policy makers to shift resources to development.
10.       The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle.  The
new Government identified its objectives as the revival and resuscitation
of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity utili-
zation in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and investment,
and (iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in foodgrains.
A program of policy reforms was developed in close consultation with the IMF.
Its principal aim was to dismantle controls over resource allocations and
initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more realistic relative
prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby arrangement
covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the Fund's Executive
Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement covering the 1979-81
period.
11.       The following broad policy reforms have been introduced:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16,
1977 at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float.
This implied a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevail-
ing prior to unification, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificate rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-
weighted average rate of the two markets. 1/
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime was liberal-
ized. With the exception of foodgrains and petroleum products,
public sector import monopolies were terminated. Prior licensing
of imports was abolished for all but a handful of commodities. The
tariff structure was revised and simplified.
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates were raised sharply.
Price Controls:  These ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange
rate caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food,
fertilizer and petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Business Turnover
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 4 -
Tax rates were substantially lowered and rationalized to be con-
sistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate. To limit
the increase in cost of food subsidies, rice and sugar rations were
initially confined to the poorer half of the population, and the
subsidy on imported wheat flour was reduced through a series of
adjustments in the domestic price. On September 1, 1979 the Gov-
ernment introduced a system of food and kerosene stamps for families
with monthly incomes less than Rs 300 to replace specific food sub-
sidies and rationing, and to target benefits to the poorest. Ini-
tially about seven million persons were issued with food and kero-
sene stamps. To offset the adverse impact of these changes on real
incomes, public sector wages have twice been adjusted upwards, and
in February 1978 an income supplement was introduced at Rs 50 per
month to benefit the poorest households in which one or more persons
had no gainful employment.  Public corporations were asked to pass
on cost increases, except in the case of fertilizer, petroleum,
milk and public transport, where price increases were initially
deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The Government has
subsequently made sizable adjustments in flour, rice and sugar
prices, bus fares, and petroLeum prices. The burden of subsidies
and transfers has, as a consequence fallen from around 9% of GNP
in 1978 to around 5% in 1980. These changes, taken together with
higher aid receipts, have permitted a sizable step up in capital
expenditures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized and simplified
with a view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of
personal and company taxation has been lowered.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for
rice was increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices,
incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes benefited. Fresh
coconut prices have also been increased by 30% and the export duty
on coconut products has been appropriately adjusted. While the uni-
fication of the exchange rate ended formal discrimination against
tree crops, the export duty on tea was initially set at a level which
effectively siphoned off most of the benefits to the Government. As
tea prices fell and production costs rose in 1978-79, the Government
responded to the reduced producer margins by a lowering of taxes on
tea. Further adjustments in both the structure and level of tea
taxation will be needed to maintain and improve incentives.
12.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped
from 6% of gross national product at market prices in 1977 to an average
of 13% in 1978 and 1979, as government departments responded to an improved
budgetary resource position by embarking on long overdue replacement invest-
ments and new projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources.
The Government has also embarked on four major new programs which are to be
the lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program. These are:
(i) Accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, by



- 5 -
far the largest multi-purpose river basin development ever undertaken in Sri
Lanka; (ii) a 200 square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo under a newly
constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which has established the
first Investment Promotion Zone near Colombo's international airport, Katuna-
yake, and is planning others, and has approved some 92 proposals involving a
total investment of US$176 million by December 1979; (iii) a massive housing
and urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan
region; and (iv) the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb
of Colombo.
13.       These four programs will together cost an estimated Rs 25 billion,
or 43% of the projected Rs 60 billion public investment program over the
1980-84 period. The Government's tentative macro-economic scenario envisages
public investment taking one-half of total investment which is expected to
average an ambitious 23% of GNP in 1980-84 as against 16% in the early 1970s.
To enable this increase to materialize, gross domestic savings are expected
to average 16.3% of GNP, and net external inflows nearly 7%. This implies
a substantial increase in external inflows which averaged 2.3% of GNP in the
1970-76 period. Official development assistance is to finance 54% of public
investment.
14.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority programs against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastructure
investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the economy.
The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond to the
economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment program,
and provide much of the short-term growth.
15.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms and the
accompanying acceleration in public investment has been encouraging. Economic
growth between 1977 and 1980 is estimated at an impressive 6.7% per annum.
This growth has been shared by almost all sectors of the economy, with the
most dynamic sectors being construction, mining and quarrying, electricity,
gas and water and manufacturing. The only major exception has been the
tree crop sector. This impressive performance is due to a number of factors
including the improved availability of inputs following import liberalization,
an increased role for the private sector in distribution, and the removal
of price controls.
16.       Domestic savings reached 15% of GNP in 1978 and 1979, well above
historical levels. Financial savings, as measured by fixed and savings
deposits, have responded dramatically to the change in interest rates.
Public and private investment have also risen sharply, bringing total invest-
ment to 20% of GNP in 1978 and 25% in 1979. This has been reflected in a
four-fold increase in capital goods imports from $84 million in 1977 to an
estimated $350 million in 1979. Much of the investment reflected pent up
demand for replacement of antiquated equipment in industry and transport.
Investment approvals in 1978 and 1979 for manufacturing reached record
levels; those involving foreign collaboration totalled $300 million, of



- 6 -
which over one-half were in the new free trade zone. Although there is
little data available on employment, the Central Bank estimates a sizable
(102,000) increase in the public sector and organized private sector employ-
ment in 1978 as against an increase of 40,000 in 1977. This would have
contributed to the fall in open unemployment from an estimated one million
to 900,000, or 16% of the labor force.
17.       The exchange rate adjustment, other policy induced price increases
and related wage increases, and the removal of price controls contributed
significantly to inflationary pressures in 1978 and 1979. However, these
pressures were moderated in 1978 by a bumper paddy harvest, increased capacity
utilization in the economy, increased availability of imports and the benefi-
cial effects of competition from iimports and in domestic distribution. Thus
average annual inflation was held to 9% in 1978. There was a marked deterior-
ation in 1979 - average annual inflation rose to 18% (32% on December 1978
to December 1979 basis) due to an acceleration in money supply expansion on
account of the continued buildup in gross external assets and the rapid
domestic bank credit expansion, and to a sharp increase in construction sector
costs, as the increase in investment levels led to shortages of construction
materials and skilled labor.
18.       Not surprisingly, the current account deficit in the balance of
payments rose sharply to $150 million in 1978 and $360 million in 1979.
After a strong surge in 1978, merchandise imports rose by a further 41% in
1979 to $1,450 million, or twice 1977 levels, reflecting sizable increases
in the cost of petroleum imports, and substantial real increases in non-food
consumer goods, intermediate and investment goods imports. Exports rose
by a more modest 18% to $900 million in 1979. However, as in 1978, the
current account deficit was more than offset by non-monetary capital inflows,
resulting in an increase in net foreign exchange reserves by a further
$46 million. Gross reserves rose by $121 million to $519 million at end
1979, due largely to drawings on the Extended Fund Facility. Reserves are
currently equivalent to about four months imports. Preliminary balance of
payments projections for 1980 suggest a further marked deterioration in the
current account deficit to $600 million, due in part to the sharp rise in
the cost of petroleum imports. Net petroleum imports as a percentage of non-
petroleum exports will rise from 14% in 1979 to 26% in 1980. At currently
projected aid levels, net reserves are likely to fall by nearly $60 million
in 1980.
19.       Success in attaining the Government's medium-term development
objectives is conditional on a number of factors. The Government will need to
carefully continue reviewing the content of its public investment program. As
presently proposed, it will severely strain the domestic availability of
skilled manpower and construction materials. To the extent that this forces a
greater reliance on imports, it will further strain the balance of payments,
which is already under severe pressure on account of the oil price increase
and other factors that will result in a deterioration in the terms of trade.
Moreover, domestic production and exports will need to increase at a rapid
rate to ensure the required level of import substitution and export promotion
implicit in the Government's macro-framework. This, in turn, will require
further efforts to improve price and export incentives, and the quality of
management in the public sector, and particularly in the tree crop sector.



- 7 -
A further essential precondition is an adequate level of public savings to
generate the required resources for public investment without infringing on
the financing needs of the private sector. While the Government has already
undertaken a number of important resource mobilization measures, this will
need to be an area of continuing vigilance. However, success will ultimately
be contingent on larger aid flows which are needed to ensure that an ambitious
development program, with a strong rehabilitation component, can be implemented
within the framework of a liberalized import regime. The Government is antici-
pating that aid flows will finance over one-half of the public investment pro-
gram, including considerable local cost financing. In this way, the Govern-
ment's own considerable resource mobilization efforts will be supplemented,
A        while at the same time providing strong balance of payments support during
this period of economic transformation.
20.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the new policy environ-
ment in Sri Lanka. Aid commitments in 1978 from members of the Sri Lanka Aid
Group totalled US$362 million, an increase of 60% over 1977. Aid commitments
in 1979 totalled a massive $660 million, including $220 million for the accel-
erated Mahaweli Program. The grant element of aid commitments is currently
around 63% and is expected to improve further. The debt service ratio in 1979,
excluding Fund repurchases, stood at around 8.0%, declining from 15.0% in 1977
and 10.0% in 1978, due to improved export earnings and the decline in outstand-
ing short- and medium-term borrowings.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
21.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$72.9 million (net of cancellations)
and 21 credits totalling US$266.5 million (net of cancellations and exchange
adjustments) in support of 27 projects. About 44% of Bank Group assistance has
been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development), 17% for
power, and the remainder for development finance company operations, highways,
a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw materials for industry),
water supply, road transport, small and medium industries and technical assis-
tance. Eight loans and eight credits have been fully disbursed so far. During
FY80, IDA credits for a total of US$56.0 million have been approved for a
Technical Assistance project and a Road Passenger Transport project. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of February 29, 1980,
together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the Devel-
opment Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and an IFC non-revolving line of
credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for on-lending
to private small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises were approved in
FY78. IFC also approved an investment of US$2.32 million in a synthetic
textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing plant in
FY79. IFC has very recently approved an increase in equity investment of
about US$51,000 equivalent in DFCC.
23.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, incomes



- 8 -
and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to sup-
port industry and basic infrastructure are also included. In addition to
providing financing for the ongoing Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II,
the Bank Group is assisting the Government of Sri Lanka in accelerating the
implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program (para 12) principally
through the coordination of external assistance for project preparation and
implementation. It is expected that significant investment opportunities
for IDA and other Aid Group members will flow from this effort. Projects in
water supply and sewerage, rural development, power transmission, and telecom-
munications also are being prepared for possible IDA financing.
24.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.3% (IBRD, 3.3%; IDA, 7.0%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (almost totally
IBRD) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to 19% by 1985 (with the IBRD's share declining
to 0.7%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline
to about 4% by 1985.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND THE RUBBER SECTOR
The Role of Agriculture in the Economy
25.       Agriculture dominates Sri Lanka's economy, accounting for 39% of GDP,
over 50% of total employment, about 80% of export earnings, and a large share
of public revenue. Approximately 80% of the country's total population lives
in rural areas. Thus, economic growth in the country depends largely upon
the performance of the agricultural sector. During the 1960s, food production
increased as the Government pursued a policy of reducing dependence on food
imports. Paddy production grew at an impressive 7.4% per annum during 1964-70
but growth declined to a mere 0.7% per annum during the 1970-77 period. Apart
from generally poor weather, the decline in yields and cropping intensities
is attributable principally to a sharp deterioration in institutional support
for production programs.
26.       In the early 1960s, the tree crop subsector accounted for over
90% of the value of merchandise exports (against about 80% today). During thle
1960s, production grew slowly at only 1% per annum, and that mainly from
rubber which was reaping the benefit from a substantial replanting program in
the early 1950s. However, after Llhis increase, rubber production stagnated in
the 1970s.  Tea and coconut output has in fact been declining steadily from
the mid-1960s. Erratic weather conditions, declining profitability associated
with low prices and high taxes, and uncertainties associated with the Govern-
ment's long, drawn-out land reformn (1972-75) depressed producer incentives and
hence investment and production.
27.       In the foreseeable future, tree crops exports will continue to be
the main source of foreign exchange earnings. Furthermore, they will continue
to play a vital role in all aspects of the economy, including generation of
employment and Government revenues. Rubber alone accounts for over one-sixtl
of the value of the country's merchandise exports.



-9-
The Rubber Industry
28.       Rubber production in Sri Lanka rose from 97,000 tons in 1960 to a
peak of 159,000 tons in 1970. During the last decade (1969-78), production
fluctuated around 150,000 tons which is about 4% of the world total. The
total area currently under rubber is estimated at 193,000 ha and has declined
by about 16,000 ha since 1972. In 1953, the Government initiated a Rubber
Replanting Scheme with an annual target of about 6,000 ha based on replace-
ment of 3% of the rubber area annually. Under the scheme, replanters receive
advice, and replanting payments financed by an export cess on rubber compris-
ing replanting inputs and some financial assistance to compensate for labor
inputs. The replanting payments have not always been sufficient to provide
adequate incentives for smallholders to replant.
29.       A rubber smallholder having title to registered rubber which is
either over 20 years old, or low-yielding because of disease, damage or
inherent genetic reasons, is eligible to participate in the rubber replanting
scheme and receive replanting payments. The objective of replanting payments
is to induce and encourage the rubber growers to undertake capital expenditures
involved in replanting overaged rubber plants. An analysis of past trends in
replanting rates and payments indicates a strong positive correlation between
the two. The replanting payments have not always been sufficient to provide
adequate incentives for smallholders to replant. These increased from
Rs 2,470/ha in 1953 to the present level of Rs 16,050/ha (introduced in
November) and are now considered satisfactory. The payments are spread over
a six-year period.
30.       The initial operation of the scheme was very successful.  During the
first ten years, 76,000 ha were replanted. However, for reasons outlined above
(para 26) annual replanting declined continuously during 1963 to 1976, from
6,400 ha to 2,550 ha improving to 3,200 ha in 1978. The adequacy of replant-
ing payments appears largely to explain the decline in replanting rates
during 1963-1976 and subsequent improvement.
31.       Much of the current rubber acreage is either over-aged or in need of
rehabilitation to make good the damage which occurred in recent years due to
lack of fertilizers and chemicals. The present backlog of replanting is
estimated to be about 55,000 ha of which 41,000 ha are in the private sector.
Despite the annual replanting target of 6,000 ha set by the Government and a
national need to achieve about 10,000 ha a year, there has been little improve-
ment in rubber replanting in the last two years.
32.       Under the Land Reform Acts of 1972 and 1975, ownership of all private
rubber holdings over 20 ha was vested in the State.  The Government established
two corporations -- State Plantations Corporation (SPC) and Janatha Estates
Development Board (JEDB) -- to manage the nationalized tea and rubber estates,
exceeding 100 ha. Holdings between 20 and 100 ha are also controlled by the
State which controls about 35% of the rubber area in Sri Lanka. Thus the
majority of the rubber land (65%) has remained private, mostly (71%) in the
hands of small producers (less than 4 ha). After an uncertain start, the two
state corporations have embarked on a replanting program in order to catch up
with the backlog by 1985. There is an urgent need to implement a similar
program on private holdings.



- 10 -
33.       The Department of Rubber Control (DRC) was created in 1934 to
control the planting and production of rubber. Its current functions include:
registration of rubber holdings and producers; licensing of dealers, manufac-
turers and nurseries; collection and collation of industry statistics; and
operation of the Rubber Replanting Scheme, including the inspection of small-
holdings and distribution of planting materials and fertilizer. The operation
of the Replanting Scheme has been criticized by many smallholders for its
cumbersome and slow-moving administrative procedures and for its failure to
provide necessary replanting inputs on time and at easily accessible places.
The Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka (RRISL) is responsible for all
aspects of research in rubber husbandry, production and processing. The
Institute has conducted good quality research work in the past and main-
tained links with research in other countries including Malaysia. The
Advisory Services Department (ASD), currently operating as a department
under RRISL, is responsible for extension work including dissemination of
research findings to smallholders and medium sized estates. ASD officers
also assist the Replanting Scheme through inspection and authorization of
replanting payments at the request of DRC. ASD is grossly understaffed to
carry out these operations. All three main rubber development agencies (DRC,
RRISL and ASD) come under the Ministry of Plantation Industries (MPI) which
is responsible for overall planning and development of the rubber industry.
At present MPI does not have the policy and planning capability that would be
required to adequately plan for the rubber industry and to formulate policies
on such questions as levels of producer margins, replanting payments, cess
and duties, and marketing strategies.
34.       The rubber growing area is generally well-served with facilities
for processing latex. About 50% of smallholder latex production is processed
by independent private operators, 40% by smallholders themselves, about
8% directly by factories, and only 2% in Group Processing Centers (GPC).
About 100 GPCs have been established under the supervision of ASD staff, using
Government grants and loans. About 20 to 100 smallholders join together to
collectively process latex into ribbed smoked sheet (RSS) in the GPCs, using
modern equipment and techniques. GPCs are run and operated by a committee
elected by members. Despite low throughput and poor management, GPCs provide
a potentially valuable forum for smallholder rubber development by providing
a center for quality processing and extension activities directed to a group
rather than the individual.
35.       Over 90% of smallholder rubber production is marketed as RSS and
scrap. The Commodity Purchase Department (CPD) under the Ministry of Trade
and Shipping buys RSS from growers and markets it internationally. There are
more than 2,000 licensed rubber dealers and a significant number of unlicensed
dealers, who handle the marketing of about 75% of RSS for delivery to author-
ized shippers in Colombo. CPD handles about 20% of RSS, while about 5% is
marketed through unauthorized middlemen (4%) and cooperatives (1%). CPD fixes
the daily price of all grades of RSS based on the Singapore daily price.
These prices are announced over the national radio network and in daily
newspapers. The announced prices are binding on all CPD depots and serve to
establish a floor price. The co-existence of CPD depots and a wide network of
private dealers has resulted in a relatively efficient marketing system.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project would assist the Government in increasing future rubber
production in Sri Lanka through its support for the acceleration of an ongoing
Government program to replant the backlog of over-aged, low-yielding small-
holder rubber. It would strengthen the agencies involved in smallholder rubber
production and provide adequate replanting inputs and incentives. The project
area is located in the lowland wet zone of southwestern Sri Lanka and consists
of the three administrative districts of Kegalle, Kalutara and Ratnapura.
Rubber is the most important crop in the area, accounting for about 49% of the
total land under cultivation (142,000 ha). Coconuts account for 18%, paddy
16%, tea 15% and minor crops 2% of the agricultural land.
37.       The principal features of the six-year project are summarized below:
(a) replanting of 18,800 ha with high-yielding rubber on about
27,000 smallholdings (below 20 ha). This will replace
about 70% of project area's and 45% of the entire island's
privately owned over-aged rubber. The project would provide
replanting inputs, including planting material, fertilizer,
cash payments and technical advice to smallholder replanters.
Where technically feasible, the project would also encourage
intercropping in order to provide smallholders with addi-
tional income during the immature period;
(b) strengthening of the two major implementing agencies: (i)
Advisory Services Department (ASD) and (ii) Department of
Rubber Control (DRC) through additional staff, training,
technical assistance and equipment. In addition, a Project
Coordination Unit will be created in the MPI for implementing
the project;
(c) construction of three regional offices for DRC/ASD staff, three
regional fertilizer stores and 78 houses for field level ASD
staff. All field level staff would also be supplied with
vehicles to ensure mobility and reduce time lost through use
of public transport;
(d) improvement of smallholder processing standards through
establishment of a Processing Advisory Division within ASD
which would service private processors and 67 existing
Group Processing Centers (GPCs), and, subject to attain-
ment of satisfactory operating norms for existing GPCs,
establishment of 50 new GPCs;
(e) support for research directed particularly to smallholder
rubber production. Vehicles and equipment would be provided
to the Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka to enable it
to serve the smallholders more effectively;



- 12 -
(f) support to the Agrarian Research and Training Institute
(ARTI) to conduct surveys and case studies aimed at evaluat-
ing the project's impact on smallholders. The evaluation
would comprise an initial baseline survey and subsequent
case studies which should result in a better understanding
of the smallholder's viewpoint and help design a more
efficient and attractive replanting scheme; and
(g) expanded training and technical assistance for training,
project evaluation, and improved procedures for the adminis-
tration of the replanting program. About 15 manmonths of
consultants' services would be provided at an estimated
manmonth rate of US$3,500 and manmonth cost of US$6,000
which includes salary, allowances, and travel and transport
expenses. A training center would be constructed and equipped
to provide training to the staff. The center would run both
pre-service and inservice training courses.
Organization and Management
38.       The entire institutional structure of the rubber industry has
been reviewed by the Rubber Masterplan in November 1979 under UK technical
assistance. Pending the review of the Masterplan by the Government and IDA,
major changes in the umbrella or apex organization for the industry are not
proposed under the project. However, the project would bring about minimum
organizational changes required for implementing the project. These organi-
zational changes would be consistent with the Masterplan recommendations.
39.       The project would establish within MPI, a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), which would be responsible for coordination of all aspects of
project implementation. The specific responsibilities of PCU would include:
(a) assistance to DRC and ASD in the preparation of annual work plans and
budgets for project activities; (b) assistance to DRC and ASD in procurement;
(c) monitoring project implementation; (d) preparation and submission of
applications for withdrawal of proceeds from the credit on behalf of the
implementing agencies; (e) collation of progress reports and project accounts
from the implementing agencies; and (f) liaison with ARTI in respect of
project evaluation.
40.       The Project Coordinator (PC) would serve as the PCU executive
officer.  He would be responsible and report to the Chairman of the Steering
Committee, and subsequently to the Rubber Policy Review Committee (para 43)
which would provide the forum for coordination of decisions on project imple-
mentation.  The Steering Committee, which was established to coordinate the
preparation of the proposed project and to guide the Masterplan team comprises:
the Secretary of MPI as Chairman; representatives of DRC, ASD and RRISL; a
representative from the Treasury; a representative from the Ministry of
Finance and Planning; and representatives of SPC/JEDB.
41.       The Advisory Services Department (ASD) now operates as a depart-
ment of RRISL. By January 1, 1981, it would be established and adequately
staffed as a department directly under the Ministry of Plantation Industries
(Development Credit Agreement (DCA, Section 3.07 (a)). In addition to its



- 13 -
role in advising rubber growers on all aspects of rubber husbandry and pro-
cessing, ASD would be responsible for all field-level contacts with rubber
replanters. Its revised responsibilities would include: inspection of
holdings for replanting permits; inspection of replantings for authorizing
replanting payments and inputs; distribution of planting materials and fertil-
izers; and quadrennial checks on registration of rubber holdings. In order
to enable it to perform the expanded duties effectively, ASD professional
staff would be increased from the present 56 to 154 under the project. No
difficulty is likely to be faced in finding qualified persons for these
additional positions.  The proposed training center at Nivitigalakele would
be equipped to train the existing and additional staff.
a         42.        DRC would relinquish its present responsibilities for inspection of
rubber holdings, authorization of replanting payments, production of planting
material, and distribution of replanting inputs. The Rubber Policy and Plan-
ning Unit (RPPU), to be established within MPI, would take over the present
DRC responsibility for setting replanting payments and cess levels. DRC would
continue to collect and maintain industry statistics relating to area, produc-
tion and processing and marketing; register holdings; issue replanting permits;
and make cash payments on authorization from ASD. ASD would inspect and on
the basis of inspection, advise DRC that the replanter is eligible for payment;
DRC would disburse payments on the basis of such authorizations. DRC would
develop simpler procedures for the administration of the replanting program.
A consultant would be retained to assist in this effort.
43.       The success of the project requires that producer margins and
replanting payments are maintained at an adequate level to keep rubber pro-
duction attractive to producers. The replanting targets should also be set by
a body able to take an overview of the industry and with an awareness of the
industry's contributions and costs to the economy as a whole. A Rubber Policy
Review Committee (RPRC) would be established not later than January 1, 1981 to
fill in the abovementioned role (DCA, Section 3.07 (c)). The existing Steering
Committee would form the basis of RPRC. The Committee would comprise:
Secretary, Ministry of Plantation Industries as Chairman; representatives of
Ministries of Finance, Trade, Industry, SPC and JEDB; heads of DRC, ASD and
RRISL; and representatives of private estates, smallholders and rubber traders/
processors. In order to service RPRC, a Rubber Policy and Planning Unit
(RPPU) would be set up in MPI with adequate staff and finance, not later than
January 1, 1981 (DCA, Section 3.07 (b)). The functions of RPPU would include,
inter alia, advising RPRC on the levels of industry cesses, duties, and
replanting payments; replanting targets; and marketing strategies. It would
also carry out research for the purpose of policy formulation.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The total project cost is estimated at about US$28 million equiv-
alent, including taxes and duties of US$0.25 million equivalent, with a for-
eign exchange component of US$7.4 million. Physical contingencies have been
applied to the base cost estimate in the following manner: 15% for planting



- 14 -
material; 5% for fertilizer; and 10% for civil works. Price contingencies
have been estimated assuming annual inflation of 21% for 1980, 15% for 1981,
12% for 1982 and 10% thereafter for domestic costs; and 10.5% for 1980, 9% for
1981, and 8% for 1982 and 7% thereafter for foreign costs. The proposed IDA
credit of US$16 million equivalent would cover the full foreign exchange cost
and about US$8.6 million equivalent or 42% of local costs, and thus would
finance 58% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The rather large
financing of local cost is justified in the context of Government's recent
increased domestic resource mobilization measures (para 11), which has been
carried out in the face of Sri Lanka's deteriorating terms of trade, and a
considerable need for local cost financing in support of a higher investment
effort (para 19). In order to ensure an early start to the project, some
pre-project expenditures incurred after April 1, 1979, would be retroactively
financed out of the proposed credit. Such expenditures would amount to a
maximum of US$0.2 million equivalent.
45.       Rubber replanting payments are financed by a Replanting Fund which
is financed by a replanting cess levied on rubber exports and administered
by DRC. The Fund has not run into deficit in the past but the proposed accel-
eration of replanting during the project period would lead to a substantial
cash deficit in the Fund. This deficit could be met by budgetary intervention
or by increasing the replanting cess. However, an increase in cess would
require a careful analysis of its effects on the producers' margins. The Gov-
ernment would annually review the financial resources of the Replanting Fund
and provide the Fund with necessary budgetary resources to finance the deficits
in implementing the project, and continue the Replanting Scheme at a mutually
agreed rate (DCA Section 4.04).
Procurement and Disbursements
46.       Replanting activities wrould be carried out by individual small-
holders. Replanting payments would cover the costs of (a) planting materials
and fertilizer which would be provided in kind to the planters; and (b) the
cost of other required inputs, including labor.  The planting materials would
be supplied by the two public corporations (SPC and JEDB). These corporations
have the expertise and facility to produce high quality planting material.
Fertilizer would be purchased by the project authorities at Government rates
from either of the two Government corporations dealing with fertilizer or
imported directly. Separate tendlers for the fertilizer requirements would not
be practicable since rubber fertilizer has to be produced by mixing several
inputs; nor would it be in the interest of economy since the corporations, by
tendering for much larger quantities, obtain better prices. ASD would be
responsible for distributing planting materials and fertilizer to the small-
holder replanters.
47.       GPCs offer a potentially useful means for improving smallholder
returns in areas not adequately served by latex processing factories or pri-
vate processors. In view of thei.r potential, the project would assist in
their improvement, and, following the achievements of satisfactory operating
norms, in their expansion.  The efficient operation of GPCs requires that
they have a legal basis for their operation including satisfactory by-laws,
as well as sufficient commitment on the part of potential members. Therefore
all existing GPCs within the project area would be established and organized



- 15 -
under a legal framework by March 31, 1981 and no new GPCs would be established
within the project area unless pledges were obtained from members that they
collectively would provide not less than 100 kg of latex per day (DCA, Section
3.06).
48.       Contracts for vehicles and equipment costing more than $100,000
each would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. All
other contracts, including contracts for civil works, which would be small and
dispersed, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, follow-
ing procedures acceptable to IDA.
49.       Disbursements under the Credit would be made as follows:  (a) 80%
4        of local expenditures on replanting payments to rubber replanters; (b) 80%
of expenditures on civil works; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly
imported or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) on locally manufactured
or 80% of expenditures on locally procured vehicles, equipment and materials;
and (d) 100% of expenditures on technical assistance and overseas training.
Disbursements against replanting payments would be made against certified
statements of expenditures. Disbursements for small contracts for civil
works costing less than SLRs 100,000 (US$6,450) and other procurement involv-
ing expenditures of less than SLRs 100,000 for vehicles and equipment would
also be made against statement of expenditures. All other disbursements
would be fully documented. The institutional capabilities of the implementing
agencies for this purpose are adequate and satisfactory. However, the
current staff strength is inadequate. Therefore, additional accounting staff
required for project implementation would be appointed by the Government by
January 1, 1981 (DCA, Section 4.03). DRC, ASD and RRISL would keep separate
accounts of expenditures made under the project.
Cost Recovery
50.       While providing smallholders with suitable remuneration and incen-
tives, the replanting scheme would also provide Government with an adequate
financial return. Government contribution to the replanting scheme would take
the form of replanting payments and administrative overheads. Its revenues
would include export cesses and duties levied on project rubber output. These
revenues would be sufficient to recover all costs by project year 16 and
thereafter annual surpluses would be about US$15 million. Over the life of
the project (30 years) the financial rate of return to Government would be
about 14%.
Production and Marketing
51.       At full development, the project would increase the annual output
of rubber by about 25,000 tons. The incremental production represents about
15% of Sri Lanka's current rubber production. The demand outlook for elas-
tomers, including both natural and synthetic rubber, is bright. Also, the
competitive position of natural rubber relative to oil-based synthetic rubber
is favorable. Unless investment in natural rubber production increases within
the next few years, growth in consumption of natural rubber will be severely
constrained by supply and in response the synthetic rubber industry will expand



- 16 -
its capacity to produce polyisoprene rubber instead. Projections indicate
continued rapid growth in demand for elastomers with associated high prices.
The present world demand for rubber of about 13 million tons annually (of which
4 million tons is natural rubber) is expected to grow at 4.9% per year between
1980 and 1990 while world market prices are expected to increase by about 15%
during the same period. The incremental project output of 25,000 tons/year at
full development would represent about 0.4% of the projected world demand for
natural rubber and about 0.5% of projected world exports in 1990. Consequently,
Sri Lanka should face no difficulty in exporting the additional project output.
Project Benefits and Risks
52.       The project's major economic benefit would be the increased pro-
duction of rubber resulting from the replanting of over-aged rubber in the
project area, and improvement in the quality of rubber resulting from improve-
ments in processing. Increased exports would strengthen Sri Lanka's balance
of payments with additional foreign exchange earnings of about US$28 million
(in constant prices) at full development. Exports would also improve Govern-
ment budgetary position through increased levies which would bring an esti-
mated surplus to Government revenue of US$16 million at full development.
The balance of revenue from rubber exports would accrue to 27,000 smallholders
whose earnings from rubber alone would eventually quadruple with the result
that almost two-thirds of the 47% of smallholders currently in the poverty
income group would be elevated out of that group. The economic rate of return
(ERR) of the project is estimated to be 23%. Even with a 20% decrease in
rubber yields and prices, the project would yield an ERR of 20%.
53.       The project faces no major risk.  The economic rate of return is
relatively insensitive to variations in the key parameters such as rubber
yields, prices and production costs. The techniques and inputs for replant-
ing and maintenance are all proven. There is, however, a risk that the proj-
ect may over-extend the implementation capacity of the concerned institutions.
Should this occur, replanting targets would not be met and both benefits and
costs would be reduced. The project would, nonetheless, remain viable under
such circumstances. The problem of constrained implementation capacity has
been directly addressed in designing the project. Firstly, it has been
accepted that some 30% of the over-aged rubber now awaiting replanting would
have to be excluded from this first project. Secondly, the annual replanting
targets build-up slowly giving time for the institutions to recruit staff and
to implement the new procedures. Thirdly, the institutions themselves would
be strengthened under the project and their activities would be coordinated
and monitored by PCU. Finally, some 70% of project disbursements are directly
tied to actual replanting achievements providing a strong incentive for the
Government to ensure that implementation capacity does not become a constraint.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association, and the Recommendation



- 17 -
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special Conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The following events of suspension have been added, namely: a change
in the Subsidy Act, the Control Act and any other legislation or regulation
governing the rubber sector so as to materially and adversely affect the
Replanting Scheme, the Replanting Fund or the Project (DCA, Section 5.01).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 16, 1980
c



-18-                                               Annex I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TAELB 3!
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SKEEET
EflRflcR GRoUPS (ADJUS5T0 A LGES
tLAND0 AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IN.)               SRI                             - XQCST RECNT ESTD Z TEI   tE
TOTAL             65.6                                                   SWA         SAME     NM  uzGtu
AGRICULTURAL      24.2                                MOST RCZET       EOGEAPIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  l     1970 t ESTIMATE          REGIOt S    GROUP LQ     GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        100.0    190.0            191.1      209.6       467.5
ENERGt CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQDIVAIUCT)     107.0       133.0     106.0             69.1       83.9       262.L
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YAR (MIXLLIONS)      9.9         U2.5      14.1
U1N POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9           21.9      24.3            13.2       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROOJTI0NS
POPULATION IN *ZAR 2000 (MILLIOES)                      21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        30.0
YEA! ST.'IONARY POPMLATION IS REACHED                 Z070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. ZX.                      151.0       191.0    215.0              86.6       49.4        45.3
PER Sq. M34. AGRICULTURL LAD    507.0        518.0     583.0            330.Z      252.0       L49.0
iOPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.1        41.9      38.0             44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                         54.3        5435      58.0            52.4        53.2        51.9
65 YUs. AD AbOVE                    3.6         3.6       4.0              3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROVIS RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.5         2.4       1.7              2.4        2.4         2.7
11AM                               4a.8        4.3       3.7              4.1        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BtR7,   RATE (PER THOUSAND)   36.0        30.0      26.0             46.A       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DeATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.0         7.0       6.0             16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.5         2.3        1.8             3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANING
ACCEPTORS, ANNAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        55.3     113.0
SBERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOM4)    ..         8.0      44.0              7.9       12.2        13.2
FOO0 AND NURITION
INDeX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.2       103.0     120.0             99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMRTS)                    98.0        94.0      91.0             93.0       93.3        94.7
PMOTEINS (GRASIS PER DAY)         46.0        43.1      42.6             56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.7        11.8       8.9             10.4       t3.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NORTALIT  RATE      7.0         3.0        2.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0        67.0      69.0             49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           63.0        51.0      47./Li             ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
MOTAL                               ..        21.0      20.0             31.5       26.3        34. 4
LTRBAN                              ..        46.0      45.0            63.9        58.5        57.9
RRAL                                ..        14.0      13.0             20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRNTA DISPOSAL (PECENT
oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .        64.0      59.0             15.7       16.0        40.8
5B3AN                               ..        76.0      6S.0             66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..        61.0      55.0              2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4500.0          ..   6230.0/R          7107.9    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION ?ER NURSING PERSON     4150.0      2730.0    2240.0          12064.0     5352.4      1522.1
'OPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            330.0       330.0     330.0           2738.4     1417.1       726.5
MPRAN                               .,       130.0     140.0                       L 197.3     272. 7
RURAL                               ..       570.0     600.0               ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        54.0      51.3               ..       24.8        '7.5
BOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
'OTAL                              5.6f        5.8        ..              ..         5.3         5.4
'RBAN                              6.3/f       6.3        ..              ..         4.9         5.1
RURAL                              5.5/f       5.         ..              ..         5.4         S.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.2ff       2.5         ..
JTtBAN                             Z. :/f      2. 7       ....
RURAL                              2.0/f        25         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICI.T (PERCENT
IF )WELLINGS)
TOTAL                              7.5/f        9.0        .               ..       :2.5        :8.
'IJAN                             35.9f7      364.        ..              ..        17.8        -5.1
RURAL                              2.37F       2.3S       ..              ..          ..          .9



-19-                                      Annex I
Page 2 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATDRS DATA SREET
SRI LANKA                  -FEMENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RFENI2T ESTIMATE) -
SM.E       SAME      RErF HIGHER
MOST RECENT     QOCRAUIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 b      1970 lb ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c   GaRou  /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTeD NaROLLMEi RATIOS
PRIMARY,    TOTAL                 95.0        99.0      77.O0/          59.5       63.3        82.7
MALE                100.0       104.0      80.so           74.9       79.1        87.3
FEMALE               90.0        94.0       3.0            43.7       48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  IOTAL                 27.0        51.0      55.0            19.5       16.7        21.4
BALe                 38.0        50.0      54.0            27.8       22.1        33.0
FEnALE               16.0        51.0      56.0            10.0       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   ..          1.0       1.0             1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHU RATIO
PII'fARY                          31.0          ..      29.0            42.2       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                           ..          ..        ..              ..       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCZNT)       75.0/h      77.6      78.1            25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
IASSNGEaR CAS PER TW0CSAND
PODULATOW                          L.0         7.0       6.6             2.3        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEQIES FM  SOUSAD
POPULATION                        36.0          ..      3.0             15.5       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIPRS PM TROUSAM
POWLATo                             ..          ..        ..              ..        2.4        13.5
NUSPAPER ("UAILY GENERAL
NTsEsr) CUCULATION PU
THOUSAND POPULATION                 36.0        49.0        ..             6.2        5.3        18.3
CUEMA ANnAL ATENDANCE P  CAPIrTA  3.0             ..       4.0              ..        1.1         2.5
tAORM FORCE
WEAL LABOR FORCE (TROuSAM)        3391.0      418A.0    4707.0
FALE (ECErT)                      22.6        23.7     2r.5             21.4       24.8        29.2
ACRICULTUIR  (PE.CEwr)            56.3        55.1      56.0            66.3       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.5        14.4      15.0             9.6       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERENr)
TOM                                 34.3        33.5      36.6            35.8       36.9        37.1
HALE                                50.8        49.2      86.2            52.3       52.4        48.6
FEMALE                              16.2        16.5      20.3            IS.?       18.0        2O.4
SCoINC DruENCY RATIO                   1.3         1.4       1.2             1.3        L.2         1.4
tIcole DISTEMImTON
PCENS OF PtrAvt  INCaOK
RECEtIED 8Y
IHCHEST S 5PCKNr OF 1OUSELOLDS   26.4          ..      16.6                    ..             15.2
UICEST 20 PERcMNT OF HUSUW LDS  52.1          43.4      42.8              4. 8.2
LOWEST 20 pERCEVr Or NUSENOLDS    4.3          7.5       7.3                                    6.3
LOWEST 40 PCENT Of 8OURPLDS   13.7            19.2      19.3               .          .        16.3
POVERTY TARGfT GROUPS
WrMATED ABSOLUTE POVRTY o   Nco
LSNtL (USS P CAPITA)
Ufa"                                ..          ..        ..           S6.5        9.2        241.3
UJCAL                               ..          ..        ..             4. 2      73.9       136.6
ESTUUATED RATIVE lOvRe?? IXCucE
LEVEL (USS SU CAPIA)
URAN                                ..          ..        ..              ..       91.9       179 .
URAL                                ..          .         ..            50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELDO POVERTY
INCOME !.EVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..                       4.3        44.1        24.d
RURAL                                .          .         .             52.4       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not appllcable.
NOTES
la   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted gometric aeons  excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country La each group. CDverage of ccuntries among the
tndicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.
fb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; tor 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic    South Asia;  .'d  .ow Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower 4iddle Iacome (5281-550 per capita,
1976);  'f  1963; Aj  Registered;  /h  1962;  i  1973;  U  public education only.
Most Recent Estimace of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-20-                                                                       Annex I
UIsITISO OF ADCIAL MICATOaS                                                           Page  3 of  6 pages
Note:  Athough the data are draw  from souce  generally judged the most  stioritatire and reliable, it ahou.Ld also he noted that they may not he intern-
ticosli  osprahle be-ans  of the inch of stndnrdi-ed definitions sod o-n-pt. used by different coutries in coiertng the data. The dats ar, o-tnetbles,
usflto denoih  orders of magnitude, indl.-to trendn, sd charaterize certain major differences hetnee coutrie..
The1 d94   t,d grosp  -Ere   fcr eac  iodl-ntcr ar  populatio-wighted geomtric men,ecudn  the entrem   calu- oftie  indicator sd the soot pnpanted
nowctry In eac  gru.P.Re to l1nk of datn, grop aae  of all indicators for Cnpital Surplus Oli (pnrters and of idicator  of Acces  to Wate  sod hi-crta
Disposal, Houing, incom   Distri1boti-o nod Psoerty for other coutry rouPs  -r PoPelatio-seighted ge tftri  -en  noont -00e -iuiu  of the  -ote-  ralue  sod
ths sotpoPulted rocetry.  Sinc  the  ce.           eo  coontrina amon  the  aians   mnso  acilbihi otfy  dap:tasdi  oc-.fr,  a                                ot h.e o-ris-d
tAr ASNA (thunsand sq.hm.(                                        Access to Flerta D~istsl  (per-en  cfpoultion) - tooli  aria, and rural
~tfl    oal srfae arnc-pris ion land are  and inland enters.                         Nbrofpol  (totl, uran  sod rua) s-rre  by encta diepusal a
Z9Eenra-Sa  recet estimate cc sgrc-1turnara  use.d tempurl-1Y                      prcetages of their r-spe-tire populations. Ou--t  disposal may "Inclde
or per-etly for crpe, pasture, -rkct and ditchen garden  cr to                            the  _cliectic  and disposal1, nith or  itbout treat-rt, of huma  e__.t
lefalo.                                                                                 and anste-at-e by eaterb-hm   synt-a  c  the u-  of pit prici-s and ouilur
GNPPZRCAPTA  W$)- I[P Per capita eimteacurnt-              mrht pkrIec                Pp,on,lati    pe    syinian  - Ppoplation dici1dedby c-h- of practicing physician
e-LMselaeby    e cocescemthoda  Ard  BanE Atla  (1.9,678 bass;                              qaiie    r amdica  school atuiest                y    -leel
1960, 19170, a.d 19T8 data.                                                               Petnlatico  Pec Nusn     .Pro  - Populatioo dicided by oute  of Prartiriog anI
UhRIlY CWU        PR fAPITA - A-Ioun      . ccnptin of c--rrini enrgy                    a,, re_ale grsduate nurses  p-mticat   --se, sod  -niotmct  --re
9eoal and hiaie  peroem oturn1 gnu and hydro-,  -Icea  and g.                              Poplation per Ht..nital1 Bed -total, urban  and  rurn  - PopuIntion  (ctotl, urt-,
theemai eleoriolty  to hiugrenoof coal c quonie-t per -npitn;  9o                  and  -urI) dicided by terrnetienmrcfhstahdsniabrn
1910, and i976 data,                                                                        public and pri-ate goealad spcialiu-dthcotpita  sd. rohnlli tnticno-t-r.
Hospitals arc estblish-teo   per--etly otaffed by at leant cor phy'nician
POPUIATION AND VITAL STTISTICS                                                                EstabIlshments pr-oding pri-oipaly cutod ial cae -r  Oct included  hrn
Toa rnegla.tlo  WM7yeaKilli.oo) - Au of July 1; I95o, 1970, and                         hsias   oee,icuehat   n    ein   etr    c   eanol    tf
1977 dm0..                                                         ~~~~~~~~by a physician  (hut byameica sistant, curse  midnife, ec-.) ohch   ffo
Urban pgsattsg (peren  oftta).Rtio of urban to totn1 popuattot;                              in-patient noc-adation and procide    alted rage of medical fnilitie.,
difeet  efntin    of urba  ors   m ff-ot  -p-nebility of datn                   AdmIsion.1  neI, honibta  Bed - Total nube f  disei.c.. tc or di-h-ngr- f...
aman  c-utrisa; i960, 1970, and 1975 dntn.                                                hpital  dicided hy the outer of  ed-.
Pr24a.tium]iw..- Cretp    oto    rcicco ur  insd on                                   cHOUSIst
1975 tubal Popla-tion by ae an  se-ad        thireoilty sod fertility                 A-"rageSine ofA-huebod (pers..ons er bouo,hld "I   total,  chan  and  -ori-
rate. fojeoton posmeconfor _rtailty  -st- coapoine of th-e                      A n huhoil coninto of a ; aco        fMtl iod-nl  sho  ht-  liclug ibatoad
lesacmlglife _upec tany St birth in--ning cith  -outrp'n                       thrir main  eal.  A hoardelr ccicdg-r sy or ssy not tn i-1iuocd in  O
Per caia       -os  Ieoe, and f-ele life  -npetany etsbiliing at                        hoshold foe staistieal purpose.
P77.5 Year.  The paramters for fertility rnte also Onc  thre  1-leeds.. Acegeubrof person  pef r ra  -_total   -Iban  and rural -iAcerge conic
ansusng decline to fertility accod:mg to iccm   tece  and pant                          uPprosprro1nubn   n   un   -rcpied c--retion d d.ii0c,,
family olasoha  perfrmanr. Eooh coutry Is  hnnsge n   f obese                           repeti-ely.D-selirgs eslde non-permanet ut-utues and unoc-pied parlo.
nie=imati-n  orfmotality and fertility tre-            o   rjcinAue  tc Electrict   preto   ntig      ttl   ra,adrrl-2c
httl"   ~Ilato.b-    a tntio..nry popuintion ther  Is no groetl                    total, urha, and rurnI doeltgo  re-peticely.
_tqrb . rat  in  .uI to the dcnth rate,ad also the nge
steoct-r  rl_is constant. Thi in I obi_ced coy  fte  fertility rates               EDsJlATION
deotine to  h  replacennt le-elof not t-tt reprodu-tion, rate, shin                   Adunod inrLset Ontiot
ench gneraton of 0mm  rPIn_r   itefeatl.Th  stino..sy p'pu-                     Primauy schoolJ - total, male and finle    G r-s  total, sale an  femal  -cr1i-
latice sine Zn   ftinated on thc bnoin 1of"thr"pro-jected charateriti-n                   sot of ad1 gee nO the prionry lec-1    per-etaen of re-p-ti-r primary
cf the poplati-c to the  -or 000, sod thOc into or deOi- or f-rtility                     u:h.,t-ug  ruIntionn    --rli  ieoides  -bidre  age  6-11 yearn but
rate tn relanemeot lord.                                                                  adjuotd for diffrenOt i-ogtho of pri.asry  duatico; I. Or-outri,'  niti
Year sttoar      -oointion In r-nhed - The year hbm  tetaio..ry pptlati-n                   unor        ducatioc enolmet map enced 100 percet nie   nn  pupilt,
sine hn bscore-rbd.                                                                       ar   eun aoe  h    ficia  school  ge
Per as.km  - Mid-yea  pouistico per squar  hilomt-r (iC) h.tectc) of                        ed_cti. coconiron ot leat fou- er  ofaprce    ri-y   otulc;
to talre                                                                                  procie  grealcotionn,   Ortace   rann   iontrui i                      rP,. i
Prrso   hI nirlua  1sd - ..Oepted an  ho-e for mgrti-torl lend                              oaly of7 12 n   7raso   ag.......ocrureniecicrn 
only.                                                                                     enolu.ded.
Poisla-tius A&e Structure ler-t) -  bhildron (0-t4 yean)  arhigag-Otioal  nrui'Me    (peer-t of neondary) - V-otioc-I i-:tit-ti-noinr d,d
(5-1,-d  years),6and reired (615 yearn and 00rEnpretgnNfmdya                                 ecncl   ootia, or other program   hbich oP-rto  indepe-en                   ors
populatin;I95,1910, and 1977 data.                                                          depsrtmentu of -ec.ndary institutions..
Pseoltico Ir-th Rate )percet  - total   Annual --tb eaten cf total aid-                     Ppnil-tesohr ratio -primary. and .....od-   - Totn1ti            - ocu1oo cro ici 
yerppltiosafo   15b,1907,sd1970-77.                                                   primacy and se-odney le-el  dicided by  -uner  cc tenoh-r in tich oro
Po=nltit.. Glrwt  Rate (pec-t) - sebn-  AnnualIEroath r-t-n   f urban                          spooding 1-e.
poplaions for 1950-60, 195-70' -an  1970.75.                                            hAL.t literacy rate (percent  -Liitn-teadubtc a irl  to rroan   nlcn
2-d.Birt  Rt.(p.rthousan) - A..ua  lire hirith  per thoeand of nil-                     o po_rttg   of total adult populotti-o pucd 1", y-_r andoer
cYea.   ouain  19 0  1971, ad1917 data.
-d7D..th Fr ('thousand)  A- Anul-ctbo per tbouoand c, i 0y-yer                   COOP 
popoittoiof%9791d,iiid 1977 dam                                                    Panege Cu    per tbc--ad populatioc) - Pson-g-r -nr  -oprio- st.,:rn
iros  PeecduetnnRat.      org   ubro  daughter     uca        Icl  bear                nestinglens than right p-oeson; cooloden anbut-o-o  coase   sol   Yl
:5 her normal -spr-du-tt- period if ohe-pe-i--ce   percet ae                               ciio
specific fertility estee; uoonlly fir-y-a  -orrg- e-diog it  960,                       Radi.iR-ci_r  (per tbouod ppnlation(    011l typro- If r--i-rr  for  -di,-
t_d    d d'_.                                                                                            b      r970, and 1975.  br-ad-nto to genera  pblic per tbouoand of pplc  -c;cldesun1irenud
pniyP55g - A_Poetrs   ooal1 (thcue-ds(. -n.-l  -unh- of                              r    -icrn inatee i and in year  sh-  -gi toton  -c of raid:   -to eon in
acoptors cf birth-conrol decic  undcc  -upi-e  ot naticoel fse,iiy                        effect; data for recet yenro tsp not be  oprtnccra    countrie
planning pr-gran                                                                          abolshed bi-eosbg.
finaly Plaeitn  - IIsern (pecet of earnd~~ -oso -  Percetag  of mnrrxd                    fTV  er-iorr  (per thoonand population) -V f -ilo r00  or brod-tu  t  g-n-rn
-ne  nr ebb id-hearig age (15-l4b yasoho unbirth-ootroi Ocoice                            public Pe tI usndposttie  co  udoolirod TV0 rec  ,en    Ic coucti-
to ni  married  -os  In n-c  g grcp.ad in year sobee reistato   ofTVet   s   c  fe
RespaerCicuaton(pr tulad D              tfiatio) - Sh-i  tthcrgc;oinn
FOOi ANDI NihITfIOCoUPlI111%1.11,   1    Ii                                                                                                                             dlt
of 'dily   enerl inerestnenoapor, de Ine  01apridos   ubiaion
Inde  of rand re'duetin  per Capita (1p96-7t.iDi( -Indeu of per c-pita                      de-ted prisuity to  -ec-ding genealnec              It in  __eidere~dl tcl be  dal
naea.pout_o of alfood p       d_ 'I_o  Production  -n lOe.  -00  sod               if it appear  at leant fou   ieaeo
fedan 1s caedar yea  b-nin.."Coeodi ti- co-e  prisnoy goods                     CInema Annua  Atteodo  per Capitu  -c  Yar - Hooe  -o Oth  number -f nii'kcn
(r.g. egraeised of sugar  chOh ore edible and -cotnin  otriet-n1d during  tb  Year, iloidingncloi tn :dric-io  ci--u  and ceoble
(e.g. coff-cand teanc_uo1uded).  uggregate prndotioe ofen-hcouery                        goindt
is hase d on -atinsa  aIeg  prducer pric    eihs
Per casita supply  f calorics (peroet of requir-net) - Computed fros          FaO Robo
energy eqsicaleo  of net food supiren eca:'tablein country per  apIta  Total labr PFnc-  (thnusands( - iConomicIly action peru...s, isoodin  arcd
prday.   oaia.ble supplies  -cpriur do-eutic pr-d-tioo, imports' tn                   froe  and unmlyed bot oclding hc--i-o, utdonts, etc- Befi,~t ii-
enports, and change  inat.  t ik~nt -uppli- enetlde  nnul feed, neds,                   in  -aIc-  countries are.. nob  upar.hl-
quatities used In food proces:ig, and Ilo...n in diutribution. nRquir-                          eret      eaelao   oc   npreneeo   iclubor f-ro.
mot5e    simated by FAO'b hae  n   hsilgca   rdofrnoml                        9g      8~Ltu_   pucet  - labo  force  fcfrmn . fo try, bunting and
act.iity.and health conidering ocrcet   tenp-rtu-, body unighto,                        fishing an pe-etage of total labor for-r
ag  ad asdistributions of population, and alonbug 10 p,rrcet for                    Industry (per-et) - Lbhi r forc  io  enn,  ourc ion,   ufot-ring  and
naste at househoid  ee-I.                                                               elcticity, eater an  gas no pecetgeo t           cca  is     7fre
Pr capita sueply ofpoen(rm    c   s)-Poe oto   fpr                                      PriiainRt  pret     oa,ml. and create- Partiipationo
capita net  ap     ofrdpeis. tint supply of food Is deliord an                          Aticity rates are coputed as total, male, and femal  isbor force as per-
ahore  Rlmquirm-tsfor all coutries eotsblinhed by U1DA prucide for a                     -etage  of total, .slo and femal  population of all age  reapeoichy
Inisiso"  liwan  of 60 grsm   of total protein Per day and 20 gees  of                  196o, 1910. and 1915 datn.  Thes  nr-  IICn participation  ratesrrfet;ig
animal and puls  prote in, of  hbiob 101gree   htonid he animal petb.                   age -se  at_u tore of the  ottio,ad I-,o tII  treod.  A few entote
Thes  standadartuethnto                  f 75 grna  of total protein  ant               ar  frm  ontioa  sources.
I  gas  faimlpo tei  ananaerg   for the anrld, proposed by rhAO               gennamin Desaey Ratio -_Ptio  of popuintion under 15 and i  sod  -ce  to
in the Thir'd Iord Food lurcey.                                                         the lborplee  Is  g  groupof' 15-64 pines.
Percapta  roeinsuplyfro  soea  and pul1r - Prutein supply of food
donned fro  aImastn'        uie  10  ro    e  dsp.                                  tINtO  DISTBIRYICNI
ebl   aesiu4 otaiyPt  (nrtouadI - lAn     d-atbo p-r thoun-d                       P-rpet%&e of Priat Inno~me (bomb11 incah and kind) - OR-e-d by richest
io age  op ibyan  tooidroi  thIn age grcup; for eost decci-                               5 psenant, rinhest P   e_eu, poret  0 per-et, and poores  401ecn
oping c-utri-n data de-t-   froe life tablen.                                             of hnuaeho.da.
HEALHI0                                                                                   POVERTY' TARGIrC GOUOPS
Ilif  uP,cae S-- t Birth 'year) - A-rsg  cober of year  of life                           istimate.d Abslt  ideert  Inom   lecl  oi  nor caia)-uba  an -rraI
reann   t birh;1  I0 17, and 1917. data.                                            Abouepnryicm   ee s  hticm   re   ooeibaminml
lofant Mortality Rate (per thousand) -A-nul d-atbo of iofanta under c-                      nutritionlly adequate diet plunr.. eetIaI. non-food requir--nt  in cot
pea  of age per thousad lice births.                                                      affordable.
Acces  to lafe Water (percent of Popolation  - total urban  and rua. -                    Esti.sted RelaM ~tio  Pneto inom        ce -       prapi)   urban sod rura
Number of people(tctal, uran  sod rural itb raeonahis acestoToa r..ntlat ioepcetIom   enti i.-hrdo    eaePer osIt
nfe ester suppl  (ieilden  nrcnted suf ac -ut_er   orunreatd bt,                          personal moose of itb  -otnY. Orban l-e  Is derod fro  toe rur-.l teen
osotaml-ted mater n-h an that frcn protected horehcle, springs,                        sub  ndjustment for higher cost of ltinig In ubanaros
sod  anitary wells) as pe-cetuge  of the ir renp-tice popultius. In                     istimated Popla tionl Rein Abelune,t  P-ety incoe lce    ernt( - urban and
anuban are  a public fountain or stadpoet Iccated oct mor  thanrrl-Preto   Poplation  (urban and rual-                                          ac  r   sbnont  pr
ou meter  fromah.use may beonIdered as being  itbin reaonble
access of  at  hous,  inrua  area  r-Iebesoesaud imply
that the h-.-"if.ormebers o  the bosboli do not be 0. spend aEb-nic and Social Data Dieloto
dls-p-ooeio...te part uf the day in fetching the famly'. snternee..da                                                         onoci  haysto anIrjctoslpa-tmet
Auut 1979



Annex I
- 21 -                           Page 4 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                          EST
1965      1970      1976      1977      1978      1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT 1975 PRICES)
Cross Domestic Product                 1783.0   2354.0   2747.3   2811.4   3020.7   3187.7
Gains from Terms of Trade               539.7    242.2    185.1    413.4    362.6    389.6
Gross Domestic Income                  2322.7   2596.2   2932.4   3224.8   3383.3   3577.3
Imports                               1189.8   1017.3    913.5    999.3   1272.8   1587.3
Exports - Volume                       -670.2   -662.9   -660.5   -694.5   -754.8   -790.8
Exports - TT. Adjusted               -1209.9   -905.1   -845.6  -1107.9  -1117.4  -1180.4
Resource Cap - TT. Adjusted             -20.1    112.1       67.9   -108.6    155.4    406.9
Total Consumption                      2055.9   2239.0   2563.6   2648.2   2891.1   3152.8
Investment                              246.8    469.4    436.8    468.0    647.6    831.4
National Savings                        244.3    297.9    350.7    570.6    511.1    470.4
Domestic Savings                        266.9    357.3    368.9    576.6    492.3    424.5
CDP at Cturrent uS$                    1686.6   1870.6   2424.2   2821.3   2546.3   3313.5
SECTOR OUTPUT
(SHARE OF COP AT 1975 PRICES)
Agriculture                             0.444    0.422    0.376    0.387    0.322    0.306
Industry                                0.171    0.211    0.217    0.201    0.260    0.269
Services                                0.385    0.367    0.407    0.412    0.418         0.425
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export Price Index                      65.65    56.86    95.16   119.13   125.63         144.54
Import Price Index                      36.37    41.64    74.33    74.67    84.86          96.83
Terms of Trade Index                   180.52   136.55   128.02   159.53   148.05         149.27
CDP Deflator (US$)                      94.59    79.47    88.24   100.35    84.30    103.95
Annual Average Exchange Rate             4.76      6.85    10.88    11.06    15.61         15.61
Growth Rates        1978 Share
1965-77             of GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product                              3.9               100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade                                              12.0
Gross Domestic Income                               2.8               112.0
Imports                                            -1.4                42.1
Exports - Volume                                    0.3                25.0
Exports - TT. Adjusted                             -0.7                37.0
Resource Gap - TT. Adjusted                                             5.1
Total Consumption                                   2.1                95.7
Investment                                          5.5                21.4
National Savings                                    7.3                16.9
Domestic Savings                                    6.6                16.3
GDP at Current US$                                  4.4
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export Price Index                                  5.1
Import Price Index                                  6.2
Terms of Trade Index                               -1.0
GDP Deflator (US$)                                  0.5
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1965-77
ICOR                                                4.37
Import Elasticity                                  -0.39
Average National Savings Rate                       0.11
Marginal National Savings Rate                      0.32
Imports/CDP                                         0.44
Investment GDP                                      0.16
Resource Gap/GDP                                    0.04
1/ Components may not add up becauise of rounding.



- 22 -
SRI LANKA                                Annex I
Page 5 of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1973     1974    1975      1976    1977    1978       1979
EST.
A C T U A L
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Exports (incl. NFS)          424.3    570.4   628.2    628.5   827.3   948.0    1143.0
2. Imports (incl. NFS)          445.3    731.7   798.8    679.0   746.2  1106.0    1537.0
3. Resource Balance            -21.0   -161.3  -170.6    -50.5    81.1  -158.0    -394.0
4. Net Factor Service Income  -17.3    -16.6   -18.4    -20.1   -15.0   -15.0          -15.0
.1 Net Interest Payments      -14.7    -14.7   -15.9    -18.6   -14.0
of which on PUB M&LT Loans-15.5    -16.5   -20.6    -23.1   -22.1
.2 Direct Investment Income   -2.7       -2.0    -2.4      -1.5    -1.1
.3 Workers Remittances (net)    .0         .0       .0        .0      .0
5. Current Transfers (net)         .2      -.2      2.8       6.6    10.5    21.9       48.0
6. Balance on current account -38.1   -178.1  -186.2    -64.0    76.6  -151.0    -361.0
7. Private Direct Investment       .5      1.3      -.2        .0     -.3      1.5      36.0
8. Grants & Grant-like Flows   13.0       42.0    77.0      58.0    60.8    57.7       124.0
PUBLIC M&LT LOANS
9. Disbursements                 83.8    146.3   157.4    210.4   150.1   235.7         177.0
10.Amortization                 -39.1    -52.4  -117.7   -103.8  -101.9   -43.1        -57.0
l1.Net Disbursements             44.7     93.8    39.7    106.7    48.2   192.6        120.0
OTHER M&LT LOANS
12.Disbursements                   .0        .0      .0        .0      .0      0.5         .0
13.Amortization                    .0        .0      .0        .0      .0       -          .0
14.Net Disbursements               .0        .0      .0        .0       .0     0.5         .0
15.Use of IMF Resources          -1.4     33.3    27.9      11.1    46.9    20.2         67.0
16.Short-term Capital
Transactions                 -9.8      13.2    -2.8    -22.6       6.5    18.2       -3.0
17.Capital Transactions NEI    28.2       62.3   -12.0    -31.8   -56.9    10.9        130.0
18.Change in Reserves
(- = Increase)       1/     -37.1      56.8    56.6    -57.4  -183.0   -94.0        -46.0
19.Net Foreign Exchange-
Reserves (end of period)   -11.0    -67.8  -124.4    -67.0   116.0   210.0          256.0
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Official Grants               21.1     37.0    76.0       53.1   104.3   123.7  )  660.0
2. Total Public M&LT Loans       92.1    233.1   285.8    221.8   167.6   324.9
.1 IBRD                          .0        .0       .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
.2 IDA                          6.0      24.0    29.5        .0    41.2    25.5        68.0
.3 Other Multilateral            2.8      2.5    30.0       8.1    49.7    83.2        42.2
.4 Governments                 58.4      72.9   196.6    140.9    69.7   192.8
.5 of which CentraLly Planned
Economies 2/                  2.6     21.4    56.1       4.2      1.7    10.0
.6 Suppliers                   25.0    133.6    29.7       72.7      7.0    23.4
.7 Financial Institutions         .0       .0       .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
.8 Bonds                          .0       .0       .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
.9 Public Loans NEI               .0       .0       .0        .0      .0       .0        .0
3. Other M&LT Loans (where
available)                      .0       .0       .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant Element of Total
Commitments                45.000    27.100   55.700  39.800  64.400   62.686         67.521
2. Average Interest Rate         .037       .051     .029    .040    .021       .024        .020
3. Average Maturity (years)  23.700    13.600   28.800  20.500  35.400   29.529          39.715
--------------------------------------_.-
1/ Net Foreign Assets: US$ Equivalent of Line 31, IFS.
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, Peoples Republic of China,
North Korea, North Vietnam.
February 27, 1980                     .. figures not available



- 23 -                                        Annex I l
Page 6 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL                                   EST.
1973        1974      1975       1976        1977       1978        1979
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD End of Period)              484.8       587.3    598.0       702.3       787.0      974.5      1,197.6
Including Undisbursed                                  680.1        875.7    997.0   1,103.8   1,217.9   1,428.1           1,702.5
Public Debt Service                                     -54.6       -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0          -94.9       -102.9
Interest                                               -15.5        -16.5    -20.6       -23.1      -22.1       -22.8        -35.5
Other M&LT Debt Service                                    .0           .0        .0         .0         .0          .0
Total Debt Service                                      -54.6       -68.9   -138.4    -126.8       -124.0       -94.9       -102.9
'1              DEBT BURDEN
Debt Service Ratio                                       12.9        12.1      22.0        20.2       15.0       10.0           9.0
Debt Service Ratio 1/                                    13.5        12.4      22.4        20.4       15.1       10.1
Debt Service/GDP                                          2.7         2.7       5.2         5.2        4.4        3.7           3.1
Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                   15.7        10.0      19.0        20.0       23.5       14.7          13.5
TERMS
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                           3.2         2.8       3.4         3.3        2.8        2.3           3.0
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                             11.3        11.7      23.1        18.1       15.8        9.7           8.6
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT
Gross Disb./Imports (Incl. NFS)                          18.8        20.0      19.7       31.0        20.1       24.1          11.5
Net Transfer/Imports (Incl. NFS)                          6.6        10.6       2.4        12.3        3.5       15.4           7.6
Net Transfer/Gross Disb.                                 34.9        52.9      12.1        39.7       17.4       63.6          66.1
EXPOSURE
IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                              6.5         3.4       3.6        1.6         1.3         .7            .7
Bank Group Disb./Gross Total Disbursements               12.4        10.9      12.2         4.0        8.7        5.6           7.8
IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        6.6         5.8       6.1         5.1        4.4        3.3           2.7
Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                  9.5        10.0      12.5        11.3       11.3       10.3           9.7
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      8.0         7.4       4.0        4.7         4.9        6.1          5.9
Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                8.1         7.5       4.2         5.0        5.2        6.5           6.5
OUTSTANDING DECEMBER 31, 1977
EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                                  AMOUNT               PERCENT
IBRD                                                                                34.3                4.4
Bank Group                                                                          89.0               11.3
Other Multilateral                                                                  43.8                5.6
Governments                                                                        574.9               73.0
Of Which Centrally Planned Economies 2/                                          52.8                 6.7
Suppliers                                                                           79.2               10.1
Financial Institutions                                                                .1                 .0
Bonds                                                                                 .0                 .0
4             Public Debt NEI                                                                        .0                 .0
Total Public M&LT Debt                                                             787.0              100.0
Other Public M&LT Debt                                                                .0                 .0
Other M&LT Debt                                                                       .0                 .0
r              Total Public Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                       1,217.9               154.8
Total M&LT Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                         1,217.9               154.8
DEBT PROFILE
Total Debt Service 1978-82/Total DOD End of 1977                                    63.5
1/ Including Net Direct Investment Income
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, People's Republic of China, North Korea, North Vietnam
Figures not available
February 27, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 29, 1980)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                      Amount (net of
Credit                                                       cancellations)
No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed            72.9   66.8
504     1974   Sri Lanka         Dairy Development               9.0      6.9
666     1976   Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation                 5.0      4.4
701     1977   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development II               19.0    18.8
709     1977   Sri Lanka         Water Supply                    9.2      4.4
742     1977   Sri Lanka         DFC -- Industrial IV            8.0      3.5
818     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Reha-
bilitation (Tea)             21.0    20.2
819     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Diver-
sification (Tea)              4.5     3.1
891     1979   Sri Lanka         Kurunegala Rural
Development                  20.0    19.6
900     1979   Sri Lanka         Road Maintenance               16.5    16.5
931     1979   Sri Lanka         Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research        15.5    15.5
942     1979   Sri Lanka         Small and Medium
Industries                   16.0    16.0
979     1980   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Technical Assistance          3.0      3.0
1980   Sri Lanka        Road Passenger Trans-
port:_                       53.0    53.0
Total,                                                   72.9  266.5   184.9
of which has been repaid                              40.2    -
Total now outstanding                                    32.7  266.5
Amount sold,                               3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                        32.7  266.5
Total undisbursed                                         Nil  184.9
la   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of February 29, 1980)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                               -      0.1       0.1
1978  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking       2.0     -        2.0
1979  Cyntex                      Textiles                  1.9      .4      2.3
1979  Mikechris Industries        Polypropylene Bag          .9      .1      1.0
1980 Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon  Development Banking          -       .05       .05
Total Commitment now held by IFC                4.8      .65     5.45



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date:  February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the
Coconut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
X         assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
rearing and pasture management systems and to provide processing equipment
to the National Milk Board.  However, progress was severely constrained by
the poor supply of cattle available for supplying to project borrowers. The
poor supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of
the national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to reformulate the project. Before proceeding with refor-
mulation, the Government was requested to provide appropriate incentives to
the dairy sector by raising the producer price of milk and stabilizing feed
prices. Appropriate action was taken in November, 1978, and the climate for
dairying has improved accordingly. The revised project would focus on
what was a small component of the original project -- support to dairy co-
operatives. Under this component, dairy farmers would be organized in a
manner similar to the successful Anand pattern of Dairy Cooperatives in
India. The National Dairy Development Board (India) helped in the prepa-
ration of the reformulated project. Under this reformulation, the supply
of inputs and services would become key activities which would include pro-
vision of technical assistance and credit to farmers and support for milk
collection, transport and marketing. The successful ongoing pilot calf/heifer
rearing and pasture programs have been expanded. The number of beneficiary
farm families would be substantially increased (current estimate approximately
10,000 vs. 2,400 in the original project) and the project would contribute to
a considerable increase in income of existing landless and small farmer dairy
producers. A review mission visited Sri Lanka in July, 1979, and reported
good progress.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers five tank areas, serving a total cultivated area
of 31,500 acres. The project includes: (a) construction works for improving
irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) improvement of farm roads; (c) provi-
sion of farm equipment for land preparation and plant protection; (d) strength-
ening of agricultural supporting services, particularly extension; and (e)
technical assistance for improving the operation and maintenance of the irri-
gation systems. The construction program continues to lag behind the revised
schedule by about one year. In August 1979 IDA approved the procurement of
about US$1.5 M of additional construction equipment under the Credit as a means
of improving construction progress and the quality of the work. The construc-
tion program for two of the tanks, Mahakandarawa and Mahawilachchiya, is fairly
well advanced; completion of the major part of this work is expected by the end
of 1980. Work is in the initial stages on the other three tanks. The quality
of project management has been a serious constraint to effective implementation.
A new management team is to be provided. Also, it has been agreed with the
Government that a three-member consulting team, funded under the IDA credit
or the U.K. grant, would be provided for up to two years to assist the Irriga-
tion Department in the design and supervision of the project. IDA provided a
design engineer for about six weeks during February/March 1980 to review and
assist in the design of irrigation works to be undertaken early in 1980 until
the consulting team is appointed. With these measures, project implementation
(measured both in terms of time and quality) is expected to improve signifi-
cantly. A study has been undertaken on 120 ac in the project area to train
farmers in making use of rainfall for land preparation and early cultivation,
thus conserving tank water for yala cultivation. This technical assistance
program is to improve water management and water use efficiencies in the
project area and appears to be successful. The T&V system of agricultural
extension is not yet operating efEectively. However, the Secretary, Ministry
of Agriculture is taking a speciaL interest in the program and is confident
that he can make it successful.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; E.ffective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Credit will help finance construction of irrigation and drainage
schemes on 40,000 acres of new land in the Mahaweli Ganga dry zone, together
with providing O&M facilities and equipment, production support in the form
of necessary tilling power and implements, marketing, transport and processing
facilities for 71,000 acres and improved agricultural extension services for
106,000 acres. Cofinancing arrangements have been made with Canada, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and the EEC. Considerable
progress has been achieved in the construction of the irrigation system and
the outlook for completing the project about 1-1/2 to 2 years ahead of schedule



ANNEX II
Page 4
remains good. The settlement of many areas has begun. A total of about
2,600 farms out of a total of about 13,500 had been settled by early 1980 and
settlement of all areas is scheduled for completion by late 1980. On-farm
development work has been completed for about 1,000 farms but is not keeping
pace with settlement. The completion of social infrastructure is lagging far
behind other project components but steps are being taken to accelerate this
work. Water issues were started in November 1979 in some of the recently
settled project areas and water charges have been initiated in adjoining
areas of System H completed previously (a total of about Rs 120,000 had been
collected by mid-November 1979).  A feeling of optimism is prevalent among
project staff. Quality control measures and the quality of completed works
continue to improve but are still not up to desired levels. Much of the work
t            is only partially completed and considerable cleanup remains in areas where
construction work is essentially complete. The agricultural extension program
is adversely affected by inadequate staffing and morale and discipline of
extension staff are low. The Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture is personally
taking steps to rectify these conditions. A farmer training program (organized
in part of System H) is achieving excellent results and will be expanded over
the total area. Disbursements are still far behind schedule but are expected
to increase significantly with the approval of several requests for withdrawal
early in 1980.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977; Effective
Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This credit will help finance improvement of existing piped water
supplies to Colombo and five adjacent towns south of Colombo. In addition,
the project will provide piped water to five adjacent towns north of Colombo
and Ambalangoda and Kalutara on the southwest coast of Sri Lanka. It also
includes provision for expenditures on spare parts and equipment, technical
assistance and training. An additional credit of Canadian $5.0 million from
Canadian funds administered by IDA is assisting in financing this project.
Recently, an EEC Special Action Credit Agreement of US$7.0 million has been
signed. Actions were taken in implementing some institutional changes, intro-
ducing a new bulk water tariff, and establishing new accounting procedures
both in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and in local authorities.
Despite initial delays, the WDB has made good progress during the past year,
particularly in procurement. Thirty three contracts have been awarded,
resulting in a commitment of about US$13 million out of the credits.
Cr. No. 742 -  Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements for lending to private sector industrial
projects and tourism. Subprojects for US$7.8 million have been authorized.



ANNEX II
Page 5
DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of
activity, which could increase further provided that DFCC's staffing problems
are overcome as well as the constraint caused by the low equity base.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The credit would assist the Government in improving the economic
efficiency of the tea industry by lowering production costs and improving
tea quality in the project area, as well as in stemming the decline in tea
output. Project progress is satisfactory. Procurement is under way; all
tender documents have been issu(ed. In the case of housing, awards have been
made and construction started. Field works, replanting and infilling, are
on schedule. All other project components, namely health component, training
component and tea area measurement, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
This credit would help the Government in its initial effort in a
long-term program to rehabilitate, diversify and settle degraded mid-country
lands, mainly nationalized tea estates. The National Agricultural Development
and Settlement Authority, the project executing agency, has developed into a
mature development organization which is operating efficiently under capable
management. Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in
field work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarca-
tion are nearly complete and soil conservation work (bench terraces, lock and
spill drains, graded stone terraces) well under way and accelerating. Founda-
tions for about 500 houses have been laid and these houses are at various
stages of construction. The project has now reached a stage where the more
difficult social part of the project, namely transport of non-citizen labor
to other estates, settler selection, and land allocation will have to be
tackled.
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project aims to assist the development of the District of
Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards and to develop a replicable model
for rural development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The project will
provide for rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes accompanied by
improved water management practices to fully exploit the irrigation potential,
and for programs for replanting/underplanting, intercropping and fertilizing
of smallholder coconut plantations. The project will also strengthen agri-
cultural extension services, improve the supply of input services such as



ANNEX II
Page 6
fertilizer distribution and seeds supplies, and lay the foundation for a
viable agriculture credit system. These directly productive investments
will be complemented by investments in transportation, health, education,
water supply and rural electrification. Subsidiary loan agreements with
participating banks have been signed and the project unit set up. A super-
vision mission reviewed the project in August, 1979 and reported good
progress.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date:  December 19, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30,
1984
The project aims to improve the highway system of Sri Lanka by a
program of enhanced periodic and routine maintenance. It would assist the
Government in the rehabilitation of 112 miles of road, resurfacing of 150
additional miles and strengthening, repairing or replacement of 30 bridges.
The project would also provide plant and equipment for workshops and strengthen
the road maintenance services of the Department of Highways. Consultants have
recently been appointed and started their work.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help Sri Lanka to (a) introduce a Training and
Visit (T&V) extension system throughout the entire country, (b) strengthen
adaptive research, and (c) improve and expand training of extension officers.
The project would establish a link between research and extension and enhance
the intensity, coverage and the content of agricultural extension services.
A unified extension system would be developed, under which extension workers
would receive biweekly training, visit farmers according to planned schedules,
and transmit extension messages.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million, so
as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. The project would
have two main components - credit and technical, management and marketing
f            services.  Under the credit component, it is proposed to establish a fund in
the National Development Bank (NDB) to provide refinancing of subloans made to
small and medium industries by commercial banks and the Development Finance
Corporation. The technical services component would be implemented by the
Industrial Development Board, Department of Small Industry, Department of



ANNEX II
Page 7
Textile Industries, and the National Institute of Management, and directed at
specific subsectors - rubber products, light engineering, subcontracting
exchanges, handlooms, coir products, and rice milling.
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US3.0 million;
not yet effective
The project is to provide technical assistance for: (i) preparation
of a reconnaissance-level study of plans for conveying and utilizing surplus
Mahaweli Ganga water to develop land in three alternative areas in order to
select the best plan for a transbasin diversion project; (ii) ongoing review
of designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Transbasin Canal, and
preparation of final designs ancd tender documents for construction of civil
works and social infrastructure for part of System C in the Mahaweli Basin;
and (iii) support for other studies and designs of projects in the Mahaweli
Ganga Development Program. Training of local staff is included throughout
the project. An EEC Special Act-ion Credit of US$2.0 million equivalent has
been provided to assist in financing consultants services for the ongoing
review of the designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Transbasin
Canal and the preparation of final design and tender documents for System C.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53 million; not yet
effective
The project would improve the availability and reliability of public
road passenger transportation services throughout Sri Lanka. It would intro-
duce improved maintenance standards, thereby improving fuel efficiency. It
also aims to improve the financial condition of Sri Lanka Central Transport
Board and Regional Transport Boards (RTBs), and progressively reduce and by
1983 eliminate Government subsidies for public bus operations. The project
provides for the purchase of 2,100 bus chassis, which will be assembled at
the assembly plant in Sri Lanka. It also includes improvements of bus main-
tenance facilities and practices in RTBs, traffic engineering measures to
improve bus flows on roads, and technical assistance and training for the
execution of the project and institution building.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
1 year
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Plantation Industries with assistance
from FAO/CP
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
March 1979 - July 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 15, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
April 4, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
August 15, 1980
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Advisory Services Department would be established
as a department directly under the Ministry of
Plantation Industries, not later than January 1,
1981 (para 41);
(b) a Rubber Policy Review Committee and a Rubber Policy
and Planning Unit would be set up not later than
January 1, 1981 (para 43);
(c)  Government would provide the Rubber Replanting
Fund with necessary budgetary resources to finance
any deficit in implementing the project (para 45);
(d) all GPCs would be established and organized under a
legal framework by March 31, 1981 (para 47); and
(e) additional accounting staff required for project
implementation would be appointed by January 1, 1981
(para 49).



BRD 14733R
MOARChi 1905
t0-00'                                                                   8Con-                 r
SRI LANKA                                                                5pae 'Mby                    \
th aeavsni,c   1, a.d        \   I N  D I A
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                             v.'u,"  
Proposed Group Processing Centers
Existing
*      Group Processing Centers                                                                                       o13
*      Commodity Purchase Depots                                                                                        1>
*      Planting Matericl Nurseries                                                                                                    r  S I\LANK.u
Kegalle District (16)
Kolitara District (10)
Ratnapura District (7)
0      District Offices
-7-30'                                    Di-    -    District Boundoaries                                                 30'
-    Division Boundaries                              N
Main Roads
-     Railways
Rivers
KILOfAAETERS       5       10      15       20      25
MILE0             5                                                                                     LLE 
Awistwll9<     *\\                   \KANDY
COLOMBO
00' COLOMBO                                                            t
iV0  A NV
KALUTARA       k4iU  
6'30'                                                                                                                                                                        '3'
GAL  E GAOLoLcE
$0. 00 \                                       uol                                           0' 30'



