Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2827-CE
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 15, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USSi           =   Rs 15.5
Rs 1               US$0.065
Rs 1 million  =   US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND K,ASURES
1 metric ton (mt)   =   0.934 long ton = 2,204 lb
1 kilogram (kg)      =   2.2 lb
1 hectare (ha)       =   2.47 ac
1 kg/ha                  0 O.89 lb/ac
1 meter (m)          =   3.3 ft.
1 kilometer (km)         0.62 mi
1 sq. km             =   0.3:3 sq. mi
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARTI     -     Agrarian Research and Training Institute
ASD      -     Advisory Services Department
CIDA     -     CanEadian Tnternational Development Agency
CFC      -     Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation
CPD      -     Commodity Purchase Department
CRI      -     Cost Recovery Index
drc      -     dry rubber content
DRC      -     Department of Rubber Control
DREO     -     Divisional Rubber Extelision Officer
EO       -     Extension Overseer
ERR      -     Economic Rate of Return
GCE A    -     General Certificate of Education A Level
GCE 0    -     General Certificate of Education 0 Level
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
GMO      -     Group Marketing Organization
GOSL     -     Government of Sri Lanka
GPC      -     Group Processing Center
ICB      -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -     International Development Association
IRR      -     Internal Rate of Return
JEDB     -     Janatha Estates Development Board
M        -      Million
mt       -     metric ton
MPI      -     Ministry of Plantation Industries
NII      -     Net Income Increase
NPV      -     Net Present Value
ODM      -     Overseas Development Ministry
PAD      -     Processing Advisory Division
PA       -     Processing Advisor
PCU      -     Project Coordination Unit
PY       -     Project Year
RAO      -     Regional Advisory Officer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REO      -     Rubber Extension Officer
RIDA     -     Rubber Industry Development Authority
RPPU     -     Rubber Policy and Planning Unit
RPRC     -     Rubber Policy Review Committee
RRISL    -     Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka
RRS      -     Rubber Replanting Scheme
RSS      -     Ribbed Smoked Sheet
Rs       -     Sri Lanka Rupees
SD       -     Supplies Division
SPA      -     Senior Processing Advisor
SPC      -     State Plantation Corporation
SRMC     -     State Rubber Manufacturing Corporation
TSR      -     Technically Specified Rubber
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     SECTOR  BACKGROUND  ......................................                                         1
General  ................................................                                         1
The  Role  of  Agriculture  in  the  Economy  .................                                   1
The  Tree  Crop  Sector  ...................................                                      2
The  Rubber  Sub-Sector  ..................................                                       3
IDA's  Role  in  the  Tree  Crop  Sector  .....................                                  6
II.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  .......................................                                       7
Physical  Characteristics   ...............................                                       7
Socio-economic  Characteristics   .........................                                       8
Social  Infrastructure  ..................................                                        9
Supporting  Services  and  Institutions  ...................                                      9
The  Replanting  Scheme  .............................                                    9
Research  ..........................................                                      9
Extension  .........................................                                      9
Department  of  Rubber  Control  ......................                                 10
Rubber  Processing  .................................                                   11
Rubber  Marketing  ..................................                                   12
Government  Rubber  Estates  .........................                                  13
III.      THE  PROJECT  ............................................                                       13
General  Description    ...............                  ..       ..................            13
Detailed  Features  and  Project  Activities  ...... ..                          .......        14
A.      Replanting  Scheme  .................................                                   14
B.      Institutional  Support  .............................                                   19
C.     Processing  Component  ..............................                                    20
D.     Research  Component  ................................                                    22
E.     Project  Evaluation  ................................                                    23
F.     Technical  Assistance  ..............................                                    24
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Sri Lanka in October 1979 and included G. Hayes, I. Girardot-Berg (IDA) and
C. Brookson and S. Swaminathan (Consultants).



-2-
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ...........................            24
A.   Cost Estimates ....................................            24
B.   Proposed Financing ........................                   26
C.   Procurement .......................................           28
D.   Disbursements and Audits ...........................          28
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................            29
A.   Background ........................................            29
B.   Project Organization and Management ....        ...........   31
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation .........................           37
VI.   PRODUCTION ASPECTS .         .....................................  38
A.   Present Situation ...............   ..     ................    38
B.   Project Replantings:  Inputs and Yields ....       .......    39
C.   Intercropping .................   ..     ..................   40
VII.    DEMAND, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY                41
Demand, Prices and Marketing .41
Financial Returns to Smallholders .43
Financial Return to Government and Cost Recovery                   44
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .45
Project Benefits .45
Project Beneficiaries .46
Employment .47
Environmental Effects .47
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests .47
Project Risks .49
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................            50
ANNEXES
1.   Technical Aspects and Project Monitoring
2.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
3.   Local Procedures for Project Funding
4.   Supporting Tables and Charts
5.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File



-3-
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS
ANNEX 1
Table 1 - Per Hectare Replanting Costs for Rubber
Table 2  -  Yield Profiles and Tapping Systems
Table 3  -  Intercropped Bananas:  Inputs and Yields
Table 4  -  Estates Producing Planting Material for 1981
ANNEX 4
Table 1  -  Project Participants by Size of Holding
Table 2  -  ASD Incremental Staffing Costs
Table 3  -  Training Component
Table 4  -  Investments and Other Operating Costs (ASD)
Table 5  -  DRC Regional Offices.  Capital Expenditures,
Staffing and Other Operating Costs
Table 6  -  Costs of Project Coordination Unit
Table 7  -  Costs of Processing, Research, Project Evaluation,
and Technical Assistance Components
Table 8  -  Group Processing Centers (GPC):
8.1 GPC Direct Processing Cost
8.2 Financial Returns to GPC Members from a Successful GPC
8.3 Financial Returns from GPC Processing
8.4 Economic Returns from One GPC
Table 9  -  Summary Project Costs
Table 10 -  Yearly Replanting Costs and Proposed Payments
Table 11 -  Cash Flow of the Rubber Replanting Fund
Table 12 -  Disbursement Schedule
Table 13 -  Detailed Disbursement Categories
Table 14 -  Financial and Economic Rubber Prices
Table 15 -  Share of FOB Returns from Rubber Exports
Table 16 -  Financial Returns to Smallholders
Table 17 -  Replanting Payments per hectare
Table 18 -  Cash Flow Analysis for Three Types of Farm
Table 19 -  Government Project Cash Flow
Table 20 -  Income Levels of Project Participants and
Project Impact on Poverty Income Group
Table 21 -  Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
Table 22 -  Conversion Factors
CHARTS 1.  Implementation Schedule
2.  Proposed Project Organization
3.  Proposed Organization of Advisory Services Department
MAP    14733R






SRI LANKA
GLOSSARY
BUDDED STUMP    A green or brown budding which has been pulled from the
nursery and which has had the seedling stem trimmed off
above the budgraft, the lateral roots trimmed to about
seven cm and the tap root trimmed to about 40 cm. Such
budded stumps can be packed and transported for planting.
BUDDING          The operation of grafting a bud onto a stock.  Brown and
green buds can be grafted onto brown stocks of up to four-
teen (14) months; only green buds can be grafted onto
green stocks.
BUDWOOD          The result of growing a bud for multiplication for planting.
Budwood can be brown (15 to 18 buds per meter) or green
(2 or 3 buds per stick).
CLONAL SEED     Open pollinated seed collected from monoclone or polyclone
plantings.
CLONE            All plants derived vegetatively from an individual source
plant thus having the same genetic composition.
CREPE           Processed rubber prepared by a number of passes, while
washing, through patterned rollers revolving at unequal
speeds, which macerate the rubber into laces. Latex
crepe is prepared from freshly coagulated latex and is
a premium product. It can be laminated into sole crepe.
Scrap rubber, off-grades, and clippings can be cleaned
in the above manner and made into brown crepe. All crepes
are air-dried, either at ambient temperature or arti-
ficially. Crepes are visually graded.
CRUMB RUBBER    A processed rubber prepared by hammer-milling or by extru-
ding and chopping, drying, and pressing into 32 kg blocks.
The highest grades are prepared from fresh latex, but
auto-coagulated rubber, scrap, off-grades, and earth scrap
can be cleaned and improved by this process. Prepared from
latex, certain of the physical characteristics (such as
viscosity) can be altered. Crumb rubber is graded on the
basis of its technical characteristics rather than its
visual appearance.
CULTIVAR         Cultivated varieties, either clonal seedlings or clones.
CUPLUMP         Late drippings of latex that autocoagulate in the cup after
collection of the main crop has been made. Collected daily
in tapping.



DRY RUBBER       The amount of dry rubber that latex is estimated to con-
CONTENT        tain.  A measurement required for payment of tappers
(drc)         and owners.  Usually estimated by a "Metrolac".  In some
other countries, a "chee" is used.
EARTH AND        Overflow from the tapping cut onto the bark and the ground.
BARK SCRAP    Usually contaminated by dust and dirt.
METROLAC         A hydrometer used to estimate the drc.  It is accurately
calibrated to only one reading and should the drc (for
various reasons) be above or below this, it will exaggerate
the difference.
NURSERY          An area set aside for preparing planting material.  Nurseries
are used to multiply buds (budwood nursery) or to grow seed-
lings for stocks for budding (seedling nursery).
RIBBED           A processed rubber prepared from latex by dilution, coag-
SMOKED         ulation with formic acid, milling with smooth and marking
SHEET (RSS)   rollers, washing, and drying in a smokehouse.  The rollers
revolve at the same speed; the marking roller impresses
ribs to increase the surface area to aid drying. The sheets
are dried in a smokehouse. RSS is visually graded.
STIMULANT        An ethylene-releasing substance which increases yield when
applied to the tapping panel.
SUCKER           Adventitious shoots or clumps of ILeaves used for vegetative
reproduction of bananas and pineapples.
TECHNICALLY      Rubbers, mainly crumb, from which adequate samples are taken
SPECIFIED      by a competent authority for testing and quality control for
RUBBERS        specification before shipping.  The main parameter is dirt
content which, in parts per million identifies the rubber
(5, 10, 30, 50). Other parameters are the plasticity reten-
tion index (a measure of possible oxidation), viscosity,
nitrogen content, volatile matter, ash and magnesium con-
tent. Other rubbers (crepe, RSS), if properly prepared
and blocked, can be submitted for testing and qualify as
a TSR.
TREE SCRAP       T-he band of latex that coagulates on the tapping cut after
dripping occurs. It displays sometwhat different physical
properties, when compounded, from the other scrap rubbers.



I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
General
1.01      Sri Lanka, with a population of 14.5 M (1978) and a total land area
of 65,607 sq. km. has a population density of about 220 per sq. km. Approxi-
mately three-quarters of the population live in the wet zone in the southwest
quadrant, comprising 23% of the country. The population density reaches
700 per sq. km. in that region, contrasting with only 80 per sq. km. in the
dry zone (64% of the country). While output and employment have grown slowly
over the past 20 years, the relatively rapid population growth of almost 2%
has resulted in slow per capita GDP growth (1% annually), and increasing
unemployment. The present per capita GDP of Sri Lanka is estimated at about
US$200 and about 22% of the population is estimated to have annual incomes
below the absolute poverty level of US$76 per capita. 1/
1.02      Sri Lanka, nevertheless, compares favorably with neighboring
countries in provision of social services for education, health, other
social welfare, and rural communications. Consequently, poverty in Sri Lanka
does not take the extreme form found in some other South Asian countries.
Life expectancy and the literacy rate are high, and nutrition level is generally
adequate. The population growth rate is declining aided by emigration; it
is currently 1.7% per annum.
The Role of Agriculture in the Economy and Government's Development Objectives
1.03      Agriculture plays a major role in the economy of Sri Lanka, account-
ing for 39% of total GDP, over 50% of total employment, and almost 80% of
export earnings. The processing of agricultural output and supply of inputs
provide further substantial indirect contributions to the economy. In rural
areas, dependence on agriculture is almost total with over 95% of the rural
population either directly or indirectly involved in agriculture.
1.04      Sri Lanka's wide variations in precipitation, topography, and soils
permit cultivation of a wide range of crops. Out of some 2.24 M ha under
permanent cultivation (34% of total land area), paddy accounts for 0.65 M ha,
coconuts 0.50 M ha, tea 0.24 M ha, rubber 0.19 M ha, and other perennial
crops 0.04 M ha.  The remaining 0.62 M ha comprises mixed rainfed farming,
mostly as small gardens around homesteads. An additional 1 M ha are under
shifting cultivation.
1.05      Tea and rubber are the major export commodities and jointly account
for 60% of total export earnings and 40% of government revenues raised through
export taxes and duties. Coconut, after having satisfied the substantial
local demand, is also exported. Paddy and most other food crops are grown
solely for domestic consumption. Domestic production of rice, sugar, and
subsidiary food crops fall short of demand, and are supplemented by imports.
1/   World Bank estimate, 1979.



- 2 -
Foreign exchange earnings from tea and rubber exports assist in financing
these food imports. 1/
1.06      The objectives of the Government of Sri. Lanka (GOSL) with respect
to agricultural development are based on the recognition of the pivotal role
of agriculture in stimulating the country's economic growth. The major objec-
tives contained in GOSL's medium-term plans for agriculture are to increase
agricultural employment, income, and self-sufficiency in basic food items,
and to expand agricultural exports.
1.07      The GOSL strategy for achieving these objectives emphasizes better
use of the existing potential through institutional and policy improvements
as well as rehabilitation of the production base where necessary. GOSL has
given high priority to accelerated programs for the rehabilitation of the
tree crops amongst others. The proposed project is consistent with the
development objectives and strategy of GOSL.
The Tree Crop Sector
1.08      The tree crop sector is second only in importance to the food crops
sector within Sri Lanka's agricultural economy. In recent years, tree crops
accounted for 772 of total export earnings, provided some 45% of all agri-
cultural employment, and contributed about 38% of the value added by the
agricultural sector. They also provided some 47% of agriculture's contri-
bution to governrient revenue in the form of taxes and levies. The health of
Sri Lanka's economy thus reflects to a large degree the economic condition of
the tree crop sector.
1.09      Unfortunately, the tree crop sector has been neglected in the past.
The neglect has been most obvious in the failure to replant which has led to
over-aged low-producing plantations of tea and rubber. The prime causes of
past neglect have been the failure to provide adequate incentives to producers
and the protracted nationalization of private estates. The potential of the
tree crop sector to contribute to the economy has thus been seriously eroded.
Bank projections 2/ are that the sector's growth rate for the period 1978-83
would decline to 4.9% p.a. compared with the 9.0% achieved in the period
1970-77. (This high growth between 1970 and 1977 was entirely due to
high prices for tea; rubber showed a negative growth averaging -5.4% p.a.
over the same period). More importantly, the tree crop sector is expected
to provide only 66% of total exports, down 14% on its achievements during
1970-77. The net contribution of the sector to government revenue would
fall more than proportionately because of the substantial need for govern-
ment funded re-irvestment.
1/   Since 1950, Sri Lanka has maintained a barter agreement with the People's
Republic of China, under which rubber has been exchanged for rice.
2/   Sri Lanka:  Medium Term Investment Strategy 1979-83.  Aide-Memoire to
the 15th MeeLing of the Sri Lanka Aid Group. April, 1979.



-3-
The Rubber Sub-Sector
1.10      Rubber is the second most important tree crop after tea.  In the
period 1970-77, rubber accounted for 18% of total export earnings, provided
some 8% of all agricultural employment, and contributed about 5% of the value
added by the agricultural sector. Duties and cesses levied on rubber exports
in 1979 accounted for some 12% of government tax revenue.
1.11      The total area of land currently planted with rubber in Sri Lanka
is reported 1/ to be 193,000 ha representing 11% of the total cultivable land
and 20% of the tree crop area. The main rubber growing districts (Kalutara,
Kegalle, Ratnapura, Galle and Colombo) are all situated within the Wet Zone
in the South West quadrant of Sri Lanka. Rubber is also cultivated to a
limited extent in districts within the northern margin of the Wet Zone.
Official records of rubber area are based on registration of rubber holdings
with the Department of Rubber Control (DRC) which indicate an area of some
263,000 ha. The discrepancy in area estimates reflects the fact that registra-
tion records are out-dated and have not been corrected for change of land use
since initial registration. The discrepancy of some 70,000 ha probably over-
estimates the contraction in rubber area which has taken place over the past
decade. Nonetheless, at least 16,000 ha of rubber have been removed since
1972-74 2/ owing to perceived higher profitability of alternative land uses
(primarily coconuts and tea), uncertainties associated with land reform,
and the lack of incentives or assistance for rubber replanting.
1.12      The ownership of rubber land is predominantly private (65%) with
35% owned by the State following the nationalization of private estates
between 1972 and 1975. Under the Land Reform laws of 1972 and 1975, private
holdings were limited to a maximum of 20 ha. Land in holdings larger than
100 ha is now owned by the state and operated by two government corporations -
the State Plantation Corporation (SPC) and the Janatha Estates Development
Board (JEDB) 3!. Land in holdings between 20 and 100 ha has also been taken
over by the State but most of such land is to be transferred to the Agro-
Industrial Corporation. A small proportion of State-owned rubber land has
been used for settlement of previously landless people, but most is held and
operated as commercial estates. Within the private sector, all holdings are
classified as smallholdings. The holding size distribution is considerably
skewed as indicated in Table 1.1; 39% of the total land area is owned by only
5% of landowners. Holdings less than 4 ha comprise 98% of the total private
holdings and 71% of the total area of private holdings. Holdings less than
1 ha account for 88% of the total but only 46% of the area. Thus the industry
is dominated by very small producers for whom rubber is commonly one of
several crops grown.
1/   Report on the Rubber Industry Masterplan.  Commonwealth Development Cor-
poration, September 1979. Area estimate is based on survey results.
Throughout this report this document is referred to as the Masterplan.
2/   Masterplan estimate.
3/   Recently, SPC and JEDB have been formed into separate ministries, with
regional corporations performing the same functions.



-4-
Table 1.1 PRIVATE HOLDINGS: SIZE DISTRIBUTION /a
% of Total             % of Total Area of
Holding Size (ha)       Private Holdings             Private Holdings
0 -   0.5                   67                          23
0.5 -  1.()                  21                          23
1.0 -  2.0                    7                          15
2.0-  4.0                     3                          10
4.0 - 10.()                   1.4                        14
10.0 - 20.0                    0.4                         8
20.0 +                         0.2                         7
/a Based orL Masterplan survey results.
1.13      Replanting of over-aged rubber first received direct Government
assistance in 1953.  In that year, GOSL initiated a Rubber Replanting Scheme
(RRS) with an annual target of 6,073 ha (15,000 ac) based on replacement of
3% per year of the then current rubber area. The scheme was initially financed
by a GOSL grant supplemented by a cess on rubber exports. The export cess was
suspended in 1957 owing to low world prices for rubber; the scheme was funded
from general revenue until 1975 when the cess was reintroduced. The scheme
continues to be financed by the cess. Under the scheme, replanters receive
advice, replanting inputs and some financial assistance to purchase other
inputs including labor during the immature period. The replanting payments to
smallholders have increased in nominal terms from Rs 2,470/ha in 1953 to the
present level of Rs 16,050. 1/
1.14      The initial operation of the scheme was highly successful.  During
its first ten years 76,000 ha was replanted island-wide. From 1963 to 1976,
the area replanted annually declined continuously from 6,400. ha to 2,550.
This decline in replanting rates has resulted in an over-aged national stand
which has reduced both present rubber production and the production potential
for the next ten years. The total area now requiring replanting is estim-
ated 2/ to be 55,000 ha, about 28% of the current rubber area. Some 41,000 ha
of this total are in private hands and the balance controlled by the State.
Since 1976, the replanting rate has shown some improvement reaching 3,200 ha
in 1978 and a projected 4,000 ha for 1979.
1.15      The failure to replant rubber at a rate sufficient to maintain an
even distribution over the past decade reflects the lack of producers' incen-
tives, particularly in the form of inadequate levels of replanting payments.
The level of replanting payments (in constant terms) since 1960 follows a de-
clining trend until 1976 when this trend was reversed. 1/  Replanting payments
1/   The payments were Rs 2,470 1953-63, Rs 2,964 1963-67, Rs 3,705 1967-75,
Rs 4,940 1975-77, Rs 7,410 1977-79, Rs 9,880 to November 1979, and
Rs 16,050 from November 1979. In constant (1979) values, in terms of
replanting costs, these payments would be Rs 12,630 (1963), Rs 10,740
(1967), Rs 7,140 (1975), Rs 6,820 (1977), and Rs 16,050 (1979).
2/   Masterplan estimate.



- 5 -
accounted for 50% of replanting costs in 1956 and about 25% in 1975. (Since
1975 there have been several increases in the replanting payments and the
current level is adequate). The strong simple correlation between replanting
rates and replanting payments as well as multiple correlation between replant-
ing rates and replanting payments, producer prices (in real terms), and
adjustments for the structural change due to land reform as well as the
uncertainty preceeding it show convincingly that the level of the replanting
payment has been the principal determinant of replanting rates in Sri Lanka.
The analysis shows further that the level of producer margins, though less so,
also contributed significantly in this respect. Thus, the steady decline in
rubber producer prices (in real terms) in Sri Lanka, which generally followed
world prices down but improved following the devaluation of the rupee in 1977,
contributed further to the decline in replanting activity. In addition, the
replanting scheme has been hampered by cumbersome administrative procedures,
exacerbated by staff shortages, which have resulted in excessive delays in the
processing of requests for assistance, and in failure to provide replanting
inputs when required. This has further constrained replanting and has probably
encouraged some of the change in land use referred to above (para 1.12).
1.16      Sri Lanka's rubber production is currently about 155,000 metric
tons (mt) p.a., down 3% from the record production of 159,000 mt in 1970.
In the mid 1950s, Sri Lanka's production of about 100,000 mt constituted 5%
of the world total. By 1968, production in Sri Lanka had risen to 149,000
mt reflecting the boost from replanting prior to 1960; Sri Lanka's share of
world production was then at its highest at 5.5%. Since 1968, Sri Lanka has
become an increasingly minor rubber producer, and now accounts for barely 4%
of the steadily increasing world total. Since 1968, production has averaged
148,000 mt annually and despite marked annual savings, overall growth has been
negligible at 0.3% p.a. During the past decade, some 97% of Sri Lanka's
production has been exported, mainly to the People's Republic of China under
a barter agreement which has accounted for some 45% of exports. Since 1970,
local consumption of rubber has grown at an average of 10% p.a.; the 1978
consumption was 9,100 mt. Most of the local consumption is used in the
manufacture of vehicle and tractor tires which are now exported by Sri Lanka.
1.17      The medium term outlook for the rubber subsector is poor, reflecting
the erosion of production potential caused by failure to maintain an adequate
replanting rate over the past decade. 1/ Assuming that replanting rates in
the private sector can be increased to 8,200 ha annually and sustained at that
level from 1984 to 1990, thereafter declining to about 3,000 ha/year by 2005,
private sector production will decline about 40% to 55,000 mt by 1987. There-
after, production will increase fairly steadily at an average annual rate of
5% to reach 143,000 mt by 2005. The current private sector production level
(90,000 mt), will not be achieved again until the mid 1990s. The outlook for
the estates sector is relatively better since much of its replanting backlog
has been removed by concerted action over the past few years. Nonetheless,
production from this sector is also projected to decrease from its present
1/   This outlook is based on Masterplan estimates.



- 6 -
42,000 mt to a low of 39,000 mt in 1982. Thereafter, production would increase
at an average annual rate of 3% to reach 84,000 mit by 2005. The total rubber
production in Sr-i Lanka is thus expected to decline about 35% to 101,000 mt in
1986 and thereafter to increase at an average annual rate of about 4% to reach
227,000 mt by 2005.  The record 1970 production (159,000 mt) is unlikely to
be surpassed before the mid 1990s. These production projections are based on
rather crude data and may overstate the magnitude of the production decline
by inter alia undlerestimating the capacity for ccntrolled slaughter tapping
of old trees. Nonetheless, a sharp drop in qut-pubt w-ill occur during the next
five years.
1.18      Although rubber prices are projected to remain buoyant during the
next decade (para 7.02), it is unlikely that price increases would completely
offset the declining production. The rubber subsector will thus contribute
much less to exports and to government revenue than it has done in the past.
The proposed project replantings comprise almost two thirds of what is con-
sidered as a feas,ible national target for the private sector island-wide for
the period 1981-85 1/. Without this early acceleration of replanting and
the enhanced capacity for future replanting which the proposed project would
create, the outlook for the rubber subsector would be bleak.
IDA's Role in the Tree Crop Sector
1.19      IDA has financed a total of ten projects in Sri Lanka's agriculture
sector since 1968. The majority of these has been directed towards increasing
food-crop production, mainly paddy, to reduce Sri Lanka's dependence on food
imports. IDA's interest in providing support to Sri Lanka's main export crops
(tea and rubber) developed as the need for significant investments to arrest
the decline of the tea and rubber industries became evident. However, in the
absence of a policy framework for the development of these industries, IDA's
direct involvement materialized in two relatively small and urgently needed
projects for tea rehabilitiation and tea diversification (Credit 818-CE,
US$21.0 M and Credit 819-CE, US$4.5 M approved in May 1978). The progress in
implementation and general performance of both these projects has been highly
satisfactory. Meanwhile at IDA's suggestion, GOSL requested assistance for
two policy studies. CIDA initiated its tea masterplan study in January 1978
and ODM its rubber masterplan study in January 1979. Following the release of
the Tea Masterplan in July 1979, an IDA subsector mission visited Sri Lanka in
August/September to help identify an investment program for the tea industry
which is now being considered by GOSL. The Rubber Masterplan has only recently
been released (December 1979). Because of this delay, the proposed project,
the first which IDA would finance in the rubber subsector, has only a limited
scope and is intended to meet the most urgent needs of the industry. It is
nevertheless envisaged that the Masterplan will iclentify a substantial invest-
ment program for the rubber subsector which will provide further opportunities
for external assistance.
1/   The Masterplan suggests that a feasible replanting target over the
period would be 30,000 ha constituting some 73% of the 41,000 ha already
over-aged.



-7-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01      The project area is located in the lowland wet zone of south western
Sri Lanka and consists of the three administrative districts of Kalutara,
Ratnapura and Kegalle (Map 14733R). Rubber is its most important crop,
accounting for 49% of the total agricultural area of about 290,000 ha. The
balance comprises coconuts 18%, paddy 16%, tea 15% and minor crops including
cinnamon, cardamom, cocoa and coffee, 2%.
Physical Characteristics
2.02      The project area includes some of the best rubber growing land in
Sri Lanka, and 68% of the country's total rubber. The climate is monsoonal
with 2,000-5,000 mm of annual rainfall associated largely with the southwest
monsoon (April-June) and the northeast monsoon (October-December). Depending
on location, between two and four months of the year have a 75% probable rain-
fall between 25 and 75 mm. Since the soils are not excessively shallow or
sandy, this relatively brief dry season does not restrict rubber yields signi-
ficantly. The rainfall distribution conforms with the requirements for rubber
cultivation. The main adverse effect of rainfall is the restriction of the
number of tapping days to between 160 and 200 per year. Monthly mean tempera-
tures range from 26 0C to 30 C with no cold season and relative humidity
averages 70% throughout the year: both are ideal for rubber cultivation.
2.03      The terrain varies from rolling to steep with more extreme slopes
in Ratnapura district. Although rubber grows best on flat or only moderate
slopes, it can be grown satisfactorily on slopes of up to 180 provided suit-
able soil conservation measures are taken. More than half the rubber island-
wide and within the project area is grown on hilly to very hilly land. Most
rubber is restricted to elevations below 370 m above sea level since yields
are constrained by low temperatures and disease at greater altitudes.
2.04      The soils of the rubber growing areas in Sri Lanka are generally
stony, often with visible rocky outcrops; even the better loamy soils commonly
contain many rocks. Fortunately rubber trees can adapt well to such soils.
The soils of Sri Lanka have been mapped at the reconnaissance level and the
rubber growing soils provisionally classified into six series. 1/ These
rubber growing soils vary in texture from silty to gravelly loams. The Rubber
Research Institute of Sri Lanka (RRISL) has developed fertilizer recommenda-
tions specific for each soil series; in practice, one broadly based fertilizer
mixture is used successfully on all of the soils. Despite the steep terrain
and high rainfall over much of the project area, soil erosion is not a major
problem since there is widespread recognition of the need for soil conservation
measures, with silt pits and bunds commonly used where required. In areas
with lower erosion potential, the widely established leguminous ground cover
reduces soil disturbance and the many rocky outcrops serve both to hold
soil and to impede runoff.
1/   Handbook of the Soils of Sri Lanka.  J. Soil Sci. Soc. of Ceylon, II,
1972-73.



Socio-Economic Characteristics
2.05      The total population of the project area is about 2 M or some 14%
of Sri Lanka's total. Fifty percent, or about 1 M are over 14 years old and
potentially economically active.  Of the estimated 0.6 M people regularly
employed, about two thirds work in agriculture, mainly on rubber and tea
holdings. Apart from agriculture, employment opportunities are limited
primarily to the tertiary sector, there being little secondary industry.
Rubber cultivation entails a labor input of about 260 workdays/ha/year; each
hectare of rubber thus provides approximately one full-time job. On small-
holdings, the workforce generally comprises the husband and wife assisted by
one of their children. In many cases the husband may find employment as a
laborer off the smallholding and the wife manages the rubber enterprise.
Women are also employed as tappers on large smallholdings and on Government
estates. Ownership of rubber holdings is predominantly private. The Master-
plan survey data indicate that some 32% of all rubber land in the project area
is state owned or controlled, with 68% in private 'hands. Some 90% of the many
small landowners have clear title to their land.
2.06      Estimates of holding size are available from a number of sources 1/
and differ somewhat according to their bases. Mission estimates 2/ for the
project area suggest that some 46% of the private holdings are less than 0.8
ha and account for about 14% of the private rubber area. Holdings between 0.8
and 4.0 ha account for a further 49% of holdings and 57% of the private rubber
area. Thus smallholdings below 4 ha account for some 95% of all private
holdings and 71% of the private rubber area.
2.07      Land use within the project area is relatively intense and diver-
sified, especially on the smaller holdings. Very few 3/ producers grow only
rubber; other crops grown in order of decreasing importance include coconut,
paddy, tea, spices, and vegetables.
2.08      Various surveys have collected data on smallholder income sources
which, while showing variation between surveys, indicate that many small-
holders earn significant off-farm income. Data from the Masterplan survey of
126 holdings indicate that 38% of owners of holdings less than 4 ha reported
off-farm earnings and the corresponding figure for holdings above 4 ha was
63%. The relatively high proportion of smallholders having off-farm employ-
ment explains in part why some 47% of smallholders with less than 4 ha hire
some labor. Within the 0-4 ha group, the smaller Smallholders generally do
not hire labor and it can be surmized that many such smallholders have few
off-farm employment opportunities.
1/   MPI survey of 1,389 holdings in Kalutara and Ratnapura 1978; Inventory
study and socio-economic survey by Masterplan team, 1979; and DRC records.
2/   Details in Project File.
3/   Some 15% according to Masterplan survey.



-9-
Social Infrastructure
2.09      The project area is adequately served by all weather roads.  Rail
service connects the three administrative centers to Colombo and there are
frequent aiid cheap bus services throughout the area. Postal services are
prompt and reliable. The literacy rate is high, newspapers are readily avail-
able, and radio broadcasts can be received throughout the area. Government
health and educational facilities are adequate. Produce for local consumption
is sold from roadside markets ("fairs") on a regular schedule.
Supporting Services and Institutions
The Replanting Scheme
2.10      The GOSL Rubber Replanting Scheme has been described previously
(para 1.13). Replanting within the project area has accounted for about 70%
of island-wide replanting since 1953, but only 36% since 1970.
Research
2.11      The Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka (RRISL) is responsible
for all aspects of research into rubber husbandry, production and processing.
Its main station is situated at Aglawatta within the project area. It also
operates a sub-station in Ratnapura District and carries out field experiments
throughout the rubber growing area and has maintained some contact with
research institutes of other rubber producting countries. RRISL has provided
a good service to the rubber industry in the past but requires strengthening
to better service the smallholder sector. Whilst improvements in research
capability are both feasible and desirable, and are being considered by
bilateral donors, the present level of research support available from RRISL
is sufficient for the successful implementation of the proposed project.
Extension
2.12      The Advisory Services Department (ASD) is responsible for the com-
munication of research findings to smallholders, and to the medium size estates.
ASD officers also assist in the operation of GOSL's replanting scheme by
inspecting rubber for registration purposes and for authorizing replanting
payments at the request of DRC. In addition, its staff are responsible for a
program to establish and supervise Group Processing Centers (GPCs). ASD is
currently operated as a department within RRISL and has its headquarters in
Colombo. For administrative purposes, the rubber growing areas have been
divided into three regions each of which is the responsibility of a Regional
Advisory Officer (RAO) stationed in the field. Each region comprises three to
four divisions, there being 11 divisions covering the entire rubber area. A
Divisional Rubber Extension Officer (DREO) is responsible for ASD services
within each division. Finally, each division is sub-divided into six or seven
ranges which are each the responsibility of a Rubber Extension Officer (REO).
The 72 REOs are thus nominally responsible for some 196,000 private holdings
with 134,000 ha of rubber. In fact, ASD staff devotes most of its attention
to smallholders' replanting or new planting. Even with this reduction in
responsibilities, ASD is grossly understaffed: each REO deals with 1200 -
2500 holdings accounting for 900 - 1300 ha of planted rubber. A reasonable



- 10 -
target would be 900 - 1000 holdings per extension officer which implies a 300%
staff increase if all 196,000 smallholders were to be adequately serviced.
2.13      Within the project area, there are six DREOs and 41 REOs whose work-
loads tend to be higher than the country-wide averages presented above. The
understaffing is exacerbated by lack of transport for REOs and by the distance
many officers must travel from their homes to their range. The work of the
REOs is primarily directed towards assistance to smallholders planting rubber
and the major components of this work are as follows:
(a) recording details of holdings for registration
purposes and certification that replanting is
justified;
(b)  contour lining and design/specification of soil
conservation works;
(c)  advice to replanters on replanting practices and
general husbandry of immature rubber; and
(d)  inspection of work carried out by smallholders (weed
control, girth increments, stand density, etc.) as the
basis for authorization of staged replanting payments.
Very little assistance is directed towards improving the husbandry of mature
smallholder rubber. The inspection activities (d) institutionally are a
responsibility of DRC which has its own staff of inspectors. However, since
the workload has f-ar exceeded DRC capabilities, DRC has requested REOs to
carry out inspect:ions for a fee (Rs 30 per visit). This inspection work is
normally outside t:he control of ASD and its irregularity leads to problems of
work:Load scheduling.  In cases where DRC officers retain their responsibility
for authorizing replanting payments, REOs have difficulty in convincing
smallholders to act on their technical advice on replanting procedures.
Department of Rubber Control
2.14      DRC was established in 1934 to control the production and planting
of rubber. In 1953, DRC undertook responsibility for the Rubber Replanting
Scheme (RRS) (para 1.13). The major functions of DRC are: registration of
rubber holdings and producers; licensing of dealers, manufacturers, and
nurseries; collection of industry statistics; and operation of the RRS includ-
ing distribution of planting materials and fertilizer. DRC is headed by a
Rubber Controller and its operations under the RRS are guided by a Rubber
Replanting Advisory Board.
2.15      The work of DRC is organized on a regional basis with the exception
of replanting payments. 1/  Each of the seven regions is the responsibility of
an Assistant Controller who reports to the Senior Assistant Controller. Within
1/   The regions do not correspond to those of ASD nor to administrative
districts.



- 11 -
each Assistant Controller's region, work is functionally organized (registration,
replanting and new planting). In 1977, DRC opened a regional office in Kalutara
and has plans to decentralize operations further by opening an office in Kegalle
and Ratnapura. To date, replanting payments are still made from the head office
in Colombo but it is the intention to decentralize this responsibility to
regional offices also.
2.16      The total staff of DRC is about 220 including 17 inspectors, 13 of
whom carry out inspections for replanting payment authorization. DRC relies
heavily on ASD to conduct most of the inspections for replanting payments.
The current procedures followed by DRC in administering the RRS are described
in the Project File. The operation of the RRS has been justly criticised by
smallholders for its cumbersome and slow moving administrative procedures, and
for its failure to provide necessary replanting inputs when and where required.
DRC operations have been subject to a thorough study conducted as part of the
Masterplan which has recommended some new procedures to improve operation of
the RRS. It is understood that DRC would receive assistance from the UK gov-
ernment to implement these Masterplan proposals.
Rubber Processing
2.17      The project area is generally well served with facilities for pro-
cessing smallholder latex (or coagulum) virtually all of which is processed
in the form of Ribbed Smoked Sheet (RSS). In periods of high prices for crepe
rubber such as have been experienced during 1979, the few smallholders close
to crepe factories deliver latex to these factories.
2.18      Independent private operators process some 50% of the output on a
custom basis for smallholders. The quality of RSS produced by private pro-
cessors is quite high by smallholder standards. 1/ The private processor is
patronized primarily by smallholders with less than 2 ha. Some 40% of small-
holder latex is processed on holdings using the smallholder's own rollers most
of which were purchased secondhand from estates or acquired long ago. The qua-
lity of output tends to be low. 2/ An estimated 8% of latex or field coagulum
is sold directly to factories for manufacture into crepe, crumb rubber or
finished products. There is one crumb rubber factory in operation at Mawanella
which takes latex from about 2,500 smallholders within a 20 km radius. In
addition, many of the Government estates have surplus processing capacity and
accept smallholder latex. Finally, 2% of smallholder latex is processed in
Group Processing Centers (GPCs).
2.19      About 100 GPCs have been established including 67 within the project
area. The GPCs have been established under the supervision of ASD staff using
grant and loan funds provided by GOSL through RRISL. They offer a potentially
useful means of improving smallholder returns in areas inadequately served by
latex processing factories or private processors. The principle of the GPC is
that 20 to 100 smallholders join together to collectively process and market
their latex as RSS using modern equipment and techniques. Each GPC has a daily
processing capacity of some 225 kg drc. The GPCs have not been operating
1/   Averaging 50% of RSS1, 25% RSS2 and 25% RSS3.
2/   Averaging 50% RSS2, 25% RSS4 and 25% RSS5.



Y
- 12 -
satisfactorily primarily because of low throughpuc-, poor management, and
absence of a legal basis for operation. GPCs with low throughput must charge
members a high processing fee to defray fixed staEf costs and this discourages
new members. Poor management reflects the fact that office bearers are unpaid
and often without managerial skills -- the employed 'managers' are in effect
laborers since the position pays too little to atltract capable managers. The
lack of legal status leads to problems of securitv of assets and to general
distrust amongst members; it also means that there are no generally accepted
rules of conduct. 1/ Despite these problems, some 25% of GPCs operate effi-
ciently and profitably in the smallholders' interests. GPCs do provide a
valuable focus for smallholder development by providing a forum which
facilitates group extension activities and enables the smallholders' views to
be noted. The quality of output from well-managed GPCs is comparable to or
better than that from private processors. The processing fee GPCs charge
members ranges between Rs 0.28 and Rs 0.33 per sheet and includes a nominal
Rs 0.04 to repay the loan which GPC members have t:aken. Many, but not all
GPCs, gain further benefits for their members by selling relatively large
consignments (4-6 mt) of graded, high quality RSS.
Rubber Marketing
2.20      Some 90% of smallholder production is marketed as RSS and scrap.
GOSL operates a monopoly in the marketing of RSS (grades 1-3) and has, since
the early 1950s, 'bartered this rubber for rice with the People's Republic of
China. 2/ The Ministry of Trade and Shipping administers the China Contract
through its Commodity Purchase Department (CPD). Although CPD is the only
agency empowered to market RSS internationally, most of the purchasing,
handling and shipping is carried out on behalf of CPD by registered private
sector individuals in return for handling charges. CPD also operates 51
buying depots at which it buys directly from smal]holders. Within the project
area, there are about 24 depots and two new depots are scheduled for con-
struction in 1980. By regulation, CPD depots are required to accept all RSS
offered to them for sale but often intake is limited by lack of storage space.
Furthermore their staff rules, which make field managers bear the cost of any
accidental overgrading, put their buyers under strong pressure to undergrade.
Although many GPCs sell their RSS to CPD, this is by no means universal since
some GPCs have found they could obtain better gradings from private dealers.
2.21      CPD fixes its prices of all RSS grades daily and these are widely
reported. Private dealers generally pay the same prices as those announced by
CPD.  One price is given for Colombo and another f'or outside Colombo, with a
difference of Rs 0.15 per kg to cover the handling and transportation cost to
Colombo. CPD bases its prices on the Singapore daily price and deducts
cesses, duties and handling charges to arrive at producer prices. Export duty
1/   Most GPCs have no legal status except for a f'ew registered as cooper-
ative societies. The cooperative society ordinance is unsuited to a
production enterprise and a more appropriate legal basis is being
sought.
2/   Under this so-called China Contract, Sri Lanka receives a premium of some
Rs. 0.1/kg over the prevailing world price.



- 13 -
is fixed by the Customs Department once a week, based on the London Weekly
Average CIF Quotation for RSS1. Duty is then levied on the basis of a slid-
ing scale. Smallholders receive the RSS price announced for that day for the
grade to which their crop is allocated. At current prices, smallholders
receive about 50% of the fob value of rubber.
2.22      There are more than 2,000 licensed rubber dealers in the project
area and a significant but unknown number of unlicenced dealers. Most small-
holders sell their RSS to the nearest dealer who transports it to Colombo to
the authorized shippers where it is sorted and packed. Some 75% - 80% of RSS
is marketed in this way. CPD purchases between 15 and 20% of the total RSS
production and ships it to packing centers in Colombo and Galle for export.
About 4% of RSS is sold to unauthorized middlemen and then resold to dealers.
About 1% of RSS is sold by cooperatives. The private dealers also purchase
lower grade sheet (RSS 4 and 5 and unsmoked) and scrap which are freely marketed
outside CPD and generally processed into crepe.
2.23      The price smallholders receive for their output is a function of
quality and the extent to which buyers unfairly downgrade the quality of their
output. The only effective remedy to downgrading is to strengthen the position
of the seller by group marketing of relatively large lots. The prices received
by smallholders using private processors, GPCs, or selling latex are about the
same. Prices received by home processors are some 30% lower owing both to
poorer quality and buyer downgrading.
2.24      In summary, the smallholder rubber producer faces few difficulties
in marketing. The operation of CPD, though much criticized because of its
limited capacity and tendency to downgrade, serves a valuable purpose in
establishing a floor price. The coexistence of CPD depots and a widespread
private dealer network has resulted in relatively efficient marketing without
the dangers inherent in a completely government managed purchasing scheme.
Given some improvement in grading practices, CPD could continue to ensure an
efficient and fair marketing system.
Government Rubber Estates
2.25      Within the project area, SPC and JEDB control some 32% of the rubber
area. GOSL has recently encouraged greater integration between estates and
smallholders and many estates now accept latex from neighboring smallholders
which is then processed into crepe at the estate's factory. Other opportuni-
ties for closer integration exist and are being developed although SPC and
JEDB are to remain as commercially operated corporations. Under the project,
selected estates within the project area would supply planting material for
smallholders at commercial rates.
III. THE PROJECT
General Description
3.01      The proposed six year project would increase Sri Lanka's future
rubber production through its support of an on-going GOSL scheme to replant



- 14 -
the backlog of over-aged, low-yielding smallholder rubber. The project would
accelerate replanting under this scheme within the project area.  It would
achieve this obj(ective by reorganizing and strengthening the agencies respon-
sible for replanting and by the provision of adecLuate replanting inputs and
incentives. Concomitantly, the quality of smallholder rubber output would
be improved and the capacity for future replantirng expanded. The major
components of the project would be:
(a)  replanting of 18,800 ha with high yielding rubber on
about 27,000 smallholdings (below 20 ha) over five years
to replace about 70% of the project area's, or 45% of the
island-wide total of over-aged privately owned rubber;
(b)  institutional support for the two major implementing agencies
(Department of Rubber Control [DRCI and Advisory Services
Department [ASD]) comprising reorganization and strengthening
through recruitment, training, and provision of equipment
and civil works, and the creation of a Project Coordination
Unit w:ithin MPI;
(c) improvement of smallholder processing standards through
establishment of a Processing Advisory Division within ASD
which would service private processors and 67 existing
Group Processing Centers (GPCs). And, following the attain-
ment of- satisfactory operating norms for existing GPCs,
establishment of 50 new GPCs;
(d) support for research directed towards the smallholder
through the provision of vehicles and equipment for the
Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka;
(e)  support: to the Agrarian Research and Training Institute
to conduct surveys and case studies aimed at evaluating
the project's impact on smallholders; and
(f)  provision of technical assistance for training, project
evaluation, development of improved procedures for admin-
istration of the replanting scheme, and for the estab-
lishment of the Processing Advisory Division.
An implementation schedule for the project is presented as Chart 1 (Annex 4).
Detailed Features and Project Activities
A.   Replanting Scheme
3.02      Sri Lanka has permitted the replanting rate to decline dramatically
over the past ten years resulting in an over-aged national stand and declining
rubber production (para 1.17). Failure to replant has been caused by lack of
incentives owing to low rubber prices and inadequate replanting payments, and
to an inefficient replanting scheme which failed to provide sufficient re-
planting inputs when required and which was hampered by staff shortages and



- 15 -
complex administrative procedures. The project would directly address each of
these constraints other than price. The problem of low producer prices would
be addressed indirectly by proposing that a mechanism be established for
maintaining adequate producer margins through variation in tax and cess levels
(para 5.25). The specific improvements to the replanting scheme to be in-
corporated in the proposed project are described below (para 3.03-3.13).
3.03      Selection of Replanters.  Participation in the project would be
open to any smallholder having title to registered rubber which is either
over 20 years old or particularly low yielding because of disease, damage, or
inherent genetic potential. These conditions already apply for smallholder
participation in GOSL's replanting scheme. It is expected that some 27,000
smallholders or about 30% of the project area total, would replant 18,800 ha
with high-yielding rubber over the project period. Table 3.1 provides a
summary of proposed replanting under the project. Details of the assumed
holding size distribution of project participants are presented in Annex 4,
Table 1.
Table 3.1: PROJECT PLANTING SCHEDULE
Project Year        Area Replanted (ha)        Proposed District Share (%)
Kalutara   Ratnapura   Kegalle
2                    1,600                 50           25          25
3                    2,800                 42           28          28
4                    4,000                 50           25          25
5                    4,800                 46           25          29
6                    5,600                 36           28          36
Total                 18,800                  44          26          30
3.04      Publicity.  Many smallholders are currently unaware of the extent
and nature of the replanting assistance available and some postpone replanting
believing old restrictions still apply. The project would include a publicity
campaign to ensure that smallholders are aware of the assistance available
and the new procedures. In each of the three administrative districts within
the project area, a publicity unit would visit about 220 villages each year
following a schedule prepared by the RAO. The mobile unit would comprise a
long wheel base vehicle equipped with a portable generator, public address
system, still and movie projectors, screen, films and slides. The local
REO would advise smallholders of the date each village would be visited.
Demonstration films, prepared by the RRISL film unit would be shown together
with a local commercial film to attract a wide audience. In addition,
leaflets describing the assistance available for replanting would be widely
distributed and notices would be periodically carried in local newspapers.
3.05      Issue of Replanting Permits.  Smallholders must be issued with a
replanting permit by DRC before becoming eligible to receive assistance under
the replanting scheme. Apart from meeting the requirements outlined above



- 16 -
(para 3.03) the smallholding must be registered with DRC prior to issue of a
replanting permit. In the past, the issue of permits has been a slow process
with delays caused both by failure of the smallholder to understand his
obligations and by DRC's inadequate registration data base. The system of
registration and issue of permits would be maintained under the project since
it provides a check against fraud and valuable statistical information but it
would be facilitated by a number of changes. The smallholder would be made
aware of the procedure and his specific obligations by the publicity campaign.
Application forms for permits would be readily available from ASD staff who
would assist the smallholder with the replanting permit application. DRC
would streamline its procedures for checking registration details and would
process permit applications promptly (Annex 2, Appendix 1).
3.06      Provision of Replanting Inputs.  The inputs required by the small-
holder replanter include technical advice, high yielding planting material,
fertilizers and cash payments for purchase of other inputs (including labor).
Under the project, all of these inputs would be provided in a form and manner
convenient to the replanter. In the past this has not been the case.
3.07      Technical advice has not always been provided in the past because of
staff shortages within ASD. The capacity of ASD r:o provide technical advice
to replanters would be greatly expanded under the project. Firstly, ASD would
benefit from much closer integration of its activities with those of DRC,
which would share its regional offices with ASD staff. ASD would use DRC's
records on replanters to schedule field staff activities and to ensure that
all replanters were regularly visited and invited to group discussions on
various aspects of replanting. ASD staff would direct particular attention
towards replanters lagging behind in their replanting program as indicated
by non-authorization of annual replanting payments. Secondly, ASD staff would
use the opportunity presented by their involvement: in distribution of planting
material and fertilizer to conduct group discussions for replanters at the
various distribution points. Thirdly, and most importantly, ASD professional
staff would be increased from the present 54 to 154 and would be better
trained and equipped to carry out their responsib:ilities. This staff increase
would mean that on average each field level extension officer would deal with
a total of 175 new replanters over the six year project.
3.08      Planting material has been supplied by DRC but often the supply
was insufficient to meet demand and smallholders had to postpone planting or
seek alternative and often unreliable sources of supply. The supply and
distribution of planting material would be improved under the project.
Smallholders with replanting permits would automat.ically receive planting
material without having to make prior application, The clones to be used are
discussed in Chapter VI (para 6.05). DRC would estimate planting material
requirements based on replanting targets which would be set by the Rubber
Policy and Planning Unit of MPI (para 5.24). These requirements would be esti-
mated 30 months before expected delivery. All planting material would be
produced by SPC and JEDB estates under contract to DRC (para 6.04). ASD would
distribute planting material using its own vehicles and contract carriers as
necessary. Within each range (the administrative zone of a REO), about ten
input distribution points would be selected after consultation with small-
holders. These distribution points would include the office of the REO, CPD



- 1 7 -
depots, GPCs, Agrarian Service Centers, Cooperative Stores and Gram Sevaka
offices. Each smallholder would nominate one distribution point for all his
inputs. ASD would arrange schedules for delivery of planting material such
that the REO would spend one day at each distribution point. Each REO would
distribute material to about 10 smallholders per day throughout the 3 week
planting period.
3.09      Fertilizer supply has been the responsibility of DRC in the past
but supplies have been insufficient, partly because of difficulties in obtain-
ing fertilizer from the Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation primarily due to import
restrictions existing at the time, but also because of inadequate forward
planning. Import liberalization policies and DRC's ability to also acquire
fertilizer through direct imports has essentially estimated this problem.
DRC uses the CPD depots as distribution points for fertilizer and for plant-
ing materials. In cases where DRC is unable to supply the specially mixed fer-
tilizer, 1/ the smallholder is authorized to purchase such fertilizers locally
using a cash advance from his replanting payment. Unfortunately, supplies of
the appropriate fertilizer mixture are often unavailable locally. It has been
estimated that only 20% of the required quantities of fertilizer has been
applied to replanted rubber in recent years. This under-fertilization has
prolonged the immature period of replanted rubber and reduced the ultimate
production potential. Fertilizer distribution would be improved under the
project. Total fertilizer requirements for all replantings would be calcu-
lated by DRC and orders would be placed with the two major GOSL fertilizer
companies some six months in advance, for delivery over the year or imported
directly by DRC. DRC would provide ASD with lists indicating the fertilizer
entitlement of individual replanters. ASD's Supplies Division (SD) would use
its own trucks plus contractors where necessary to transport fertilizer from
Colombo to three regional fertilizer stores where it would be stored under ASD
supervision before distribution to smallholders by SD twice per year. All
replanters would receive fertilizer in kind and there would be no cash pay-
ments in lieu. Details of application rates are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
The distribution points used for planting material would also be used for
fertilizer as would be the system for scheduling distribution. Each REO would
be required to distribute fertilizer to about 35 smallholders per day over the
fertilizer distribution period. The maximum quantity of fertilizer to be
distributed would be about 5,700 mt per distribution in project year (PY) 8
which would be equivalent to about 7 mt/range/day.
3.10      The inspection of holdings for authorization of replanting payments
and supply of replanting inputs has been the responsibility of DRC. The 13
inspectors in DRC have been unable to cope with the volume of inspections and
DRC has authorized ASD staff to assist by carrying out inspections for a fee.
This has led to various problems described previously (para 2.13). Under
the project, the inspection of holdings for authorization of replanting
payments would be the sole responsibility of ASD. The schedule of inspec-
tions and the criteria for authorization of payment and further supply of
inputs is discussed in Chapter VI. Staff of ASD would be provided with a list
of all replanters in their range by the regional office of DRC/ASD. Based on
1/   The fertilizer most commonly used is R462 Mg.  The analysis is
9:5:3:1::N:P:K:Mg.



- 18 -
this list, each REO and EO would prepare an inspection program which would
ensure that each replanter was visited annually ior inspection during the
period May to mid October to keep the interval between payments as close as
possible to 12 months. The smallholder would be notified in advance of
the proposed date of the inspection visit, and could request an earlier
or a later inspection under exceptional circumstances.
3.11      Cash payments are disbursed by DRC following satisfactory inspection
and debited to each replanter's replanting payment account which is also
debited with expenditures on planting material and fertilizer. These payments
are for the purchase of inputs not supplied in kind such as agro-chemicals and
fencing material, and for the smallholder's labor inputs. Although the cash
payments may be made either by cheque or money order and mailed to the small-
holder, in practice the smallholder has often had. to visit DRC in Colombo to
secure the release of the payment. Under the project, the disbursement of
cash payments to replanters would be fully decentralized and procedures
streamlined. Smallholders would nominate their preferred form of payment
(money order or cheque) and their local bank or post office when applying for
a replanting perrnit. Payments would be made promptly following receipt of a
satisfactory inspection report from ASD indicating that specified standards
had been achieved (Annex 1). The number of inspections of the immature rubber
would be increased to eight to ensure that the trees were not opened for
tapping prematurely.
3.12      Ombudsmen  The operation of the replanting scheme would be further
improved under the project by the creation of an ombudsman position in each of
the three administrative districts of the project area. These ombudsmen
would receive ancd investigate complaints from smallholders relating to the
functions of DRC and ASD. Where complaints were found to be justified, the
ombudsman would refer these to the Secretary of the Ministry of Plantation
Industries for action. Further details are given below (para 5.28).
3.13      Intercropping.  In the past, DRC has prohibited the cultivation of
any crop other than leguminous covers between the rows of immature rubber
trees. This prohibition reflected past industry bias toward estate-type
production goals where the objective was to maximize rubber production per se.
The objective of the smallholder, and particularly the smaller smallholder, is
more to maintain adequate cash income levels and to maximize returns per
hectare. Intercropping offers the opportunity to do this during the immature
period, and is therefore attractive to the smallhDlder. Intercrops can be
grown successfully with rubber with little or no adverse effect on long term
rubber production provided that the crop is adequately fertilized and certain
other precautions are observed (para 6.12).  DRC has recently permitted
intercropping in suitable circumstances. The project would encourage wider
adoption of intercropping through various means. Firstly, the publicity
campaign would include information on intercrops to create smallholder interest
and awareness. Secondly, ASD would distribute leaflets describing appropriate
cultivation techniques for the major approved intearcrops (bananas, passionfruit
and pineapples). Thirdly, smallholders would be given the opportunity to
order planting material at the time of applying for a replanting permit. DRC
would aggregate the planting material requirements so identified and pass
these estimates on to local Department of Agriculture farms which have agreed



- 19 -
to supply the planting material at cost. Finally, ASD staff would stress the
need to apply adequate quantities of fertilizer to the intercrops and would
indicate to the Agrarian Service Department the expected demand for intercrop
fertilizer from each of the project area's Agrarian Service Center. In view
of the high and prompt cash returns from intercrops, and the adequate replant-
ing payments provided to replanters, it would not be necessary to provide
intercrop inputs on a grant basis as had been originally considered. An agree-
ment was obtained that adequate supplies of planting material would at all
times be available to meet project requirements.
B.   Institutional Support
3.14      In order to execute the replanting scheme outlined above, and to
expand the capacity for replanting in the future, the project would assist in
the strengthening and reorganization of the two major implementing agencies,
ASD and DRC. In addition, the project would establish a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU).
Support for ASD, DRC and PCU
3.15      Details of the responsibilities of ASD, DRC and PCU, and of the
recruitment and training of their staff, are given in Chapter V. The project
would provide civil works and equipment to improve the functioning of these
implementing agencies.
3.16      Civil Works.  The project would construct a permanent training
center for ASD staff at Nivitigalakele near RRISL. The center would comprise
a lecture hall, classrooms, office, dormitory, kitchen and living facilities.
It would accommodate 30 residential trainees in addition to teaching and
support staff, and would be constructed early in project year 1 to facilitate
training of incremental staff. (Cost details in Annex 4, Table 3). Three
regional offices would be constructed, one in each district to be used both
by DRC and ASD staff. Each office would accommodate about 50 DRC staff and
4 ASD staff. Plans for these offices would be prepared by architects commis-
sioned by PCU. Construction would commence mid PY1 and be completed by end
PY2. (Cost details in Annex 4, Table 5). Three regional fertilizer stores
would be constructed adjacent to the regional offices. Each store would hold
about 2,000 metric tons, sufficient for the peak fertilizer demand from re-
planters in the project area. A total of 78 houses would be provided for all
field level ASD staff above the level of EO, to minimize the considerable
staff time currently lost in travelling to work. Each house would be centrally
located within the officers' administrative area. The houses for REOs and
DREOs would include a small attached office and store. Designs for the
houses would conform with GOSL standards. (Cost details for houses and fer-
tilizer stores are in Annex 4, Table 4).
3.17      Equipment.  The project would provide 108 bicycles for EOs and
92 motorbikes for REOs and PAs which would meet incremental staff needs and
provide necessary replacements during the implementation period. ASD
officers would be required to purchase bicycles and motorbikes and would
receive a loan for this purpose under the standard terms currently applying.
The loans would be repaid from the proceeds of the travelling allowances



- 20 -
paid to these staff. An agreement was obtained that GOSL would periodically
review travel allowances in relation to vehicle operating costs and would
undertake to ensure that project vehicles are fulLy utilized. Four wheel
drive vehicles would be provided for: RAO (3); SPA (3); DREO (9); Assistant
Controllers (3); the PCU (1); the training center (1); and for the ASD head
office (3). Since these vehicles are expensive in relation to staff salaries,
they would remain the property of the implementing agencies and would be
driven and maintained by the agencies' drivers. Three mobile publicity
units would be provided to ASD for use in the project area.  Three passenger
cars would be provided for the ASD head office and one for the PCU. Three
microbus type vehicles would be attached to the training centers to transport
trainees to and from courses and on tours. Ten trucks would be provided
to distribute fertilizer and planting materials.
3.18      The project would also provide required office equipment for the
PCU and for all ASD and DRC offices in the project: area.
3.19      ASD staff would be provided with field equipment consisting of pro-
tective clothing including motorcycle helmets, ancL measuring tapes and levels
for contour lining. Each range would be provided with three tree pullers
(small winches) which would be loaned to smallholclers to facilitate uprooting
thus permitting more smallholders to earn substantial cash income through the
sale of old rubber trees.
3.20      Further details including the costs of equipment for ASD, DRC and
PCU for training and for other activities, are provided in Annex 4, Tables 3,
4, 5 and 6 respectively.
C.   Processing Component
3.21      By providing technical advice the project would improve the quality
of output from both private processors and GPCs arid, by strengthening and
expanding the GPCs, would provide alternative processing channels to reduce
the proportion home processed. This action would be in support of ASD's
general approach to processing which is firstly tco encourage smallholders
to sell latex for crepe or block production wherever geographically feasible;
secondly to improve processing standards in the private sector; and thirdly to
establish GPCs where there are no factories or private processors. The cost
of the processing component is shown in Annex 4, Table 7.
3.22      Processing Advisory Division.  A Processing Advisory Division (PAD)
would be established within ASD to provide technical and managerial advice to
both private processors and GPCs. Details of the staffing and training of PAD
staff are given in Chapter V.
3.23      Each Processing Advisor (PA) would supervise all the existing GPCs
in his division, taking over from the REO who has had this responsiblity in
the past. On average, each PA would be responsible for about 8 GPCs which he
would visit on a regular basis. The frequency of visits would depend on the
need of each GPC. Initially the PAs, with the assistance of the Senior Proces-
sing Advisors (SPA), would survey the existing GPCs to define and record their



- 21 -
characteristics (membership, throughput, financial status, etc.) and to iden-
tify their problems. After completion of this survey, ASD would develop a
strategy to improve the performance of the GPCs. It is envisaged that this
strategy would include: provision of a sound and appropriate legal basis for
operation of the GPCs; development and institution of financial controls based
on a revised record keeping system; expansion of membership through recruitment
drives and offer of incentives such as daily advance payments; improvement in
quality of output through attention to technical procedures and improvement
of facilities; and improvement in sale prices through greater use of group
marketing.
3.24      PAD would also provide advice to private processors.  All private
processors within the project area would be contacted by mail and requested to
fill in a questionnaire concerning their equipment, processing methods and
quality achievements. The questionnaire would be accompanied by a leaflet
introducing the new service and explaining its potential benefits to processors.
Processors would be invited to contact their local PA for advice on processing
methods likely to improve quality. In addition, staff of the PAD would
compile a list of the larger private processors and visit these processors
routinely. It is envisaged that the major thrust of the advice to private
processors would concern improvements in the design and operation of smoke-
houses since much of the quality deterioration is caused by incorrect smoking.
3.25      The Group Processing Centers.  The GPCs offer a potentially useful
means for improving smallholder returns in areas not adequately served by
latex processing factories or private processors. In view of their potential,
the project would assist in their improvement, and, following the achievement
of satisfactory operating norms, in their expansion. To date, only a small
proportion of existing GPCs have realized their potential for reasons outlined
above (para 2.19). The project would address the technical and managerial
weaknesses through the efforts of the processing advisors.
3.26      The project would also support physical improvements to existing
GPCs. These improvements would include a tiled bulking tank, a dripping rack
to prevent uneven enzyme darkening, a working table for coagulation pans, and
an additional supply of 100 coagulation pans. Existing GPCs would be eligible
to borrow up to Rs 6,000 from ASD to meet the full cost of these improvements.
Loans would be available only to GPCs meeting the following conditions:
(a)  that they had an adequate legal basis for their operations
including satisfactory operating by-laws (MPI is currently
studying alternative forms of legal association and is
expected to propose an adequate basis in the near future);
(b)  that they obtain pledges from members to collectively
provide a satisfactory minimum input of latex not less
than 100 kg/day; and
(c)  that a satisfactory system of accounting and auditing was
followed.
The project would provide for the rehabilitation of the 67 existing GPCs in
the project area once these conditions were met.



- 22 -
3.27      Once existing GPCs have become financiaLly viable following the
improvements referred to above, the project would support an expansion of
GPCs in areas where existing processing facilities were inadequate. During
negotiations an assurance was obtained that: (i) GOSL would establish a legal
basis for the operation of GPCs satisfactory to II)A not later than March 31,
1981, and (ii) that no new GPCs would be established in the project area until
the potential members pledged to collectively supply not less than 100 kg of
latex per day of operation. ASD has already idenl.ified 50 potential sites 1/
in the project area however detailed studies would be required before sites
are finally chosen. The new GPCs would be similar to existing GPCs but would
incorporate various improvements. Details are given in Annex 2, Appendix 3.
The cost of each GPC is estimated at Rs 50,000 including Rs 5,000 working
capital. It is recommended that ASD should re-examine the design and con-
struction standards to identify the scope for reducing capital and operating
costs. It is proposed that Rs 20,000 would be provided as a grant, with the
balance in the form of a loan at 10% interest over 12 years. For GPCs oper-
ating at 75% of capacity, the loan repayments would amount to 10 cents/kg.
Details of the financial and economic returns expected from GPCs are presented
in Annex 4, Table 8. The operators of GPCs would be employed by the members
and would receive training from ASD in addition tc) the advisory service
provided by PAD.
3.28      The project would also encourage group miarketing of output.  Group
sales are currently used by most GPCs but smallho]ders outside the GPCs almost
invariably sell their output individually. If such smallholders formed a group
marketing organization (GMO) which could offer large lots of graded rubber to
buyers it would tend to reduce downgrading and thus provide a better return to
GMO members. The GMO could also be used as a nucleus for the purchase of latex
for crepe or block manufacture. The staff of PAD would investigate the feasi-
bility of establishing GMOs which would require very little capital since they
would use existing processing facilities. PAD would also investigate the
marketing of scrap rubber all of which is currently sold at a low price by
individual producers. GPCs and GMOs could accept, dry, segregate, and grade,
tree scrap, cup lamp, and earth scrap and sell in bulk lots. Such sales would
provide additional income for members.
D.   Research Component
3.29      The Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka (RRISL) carries out
research which is of potential benefit to smallholders. Work on cultivar test-
ing, disease control, nutrient requirements, husbandry, intercropping, and
small scale processing are of immediate importance to smallholders. In addi-
tion, officers from RRISL serve as subject matter specialists for the extension
staff of ASD. The conduct of field trials and frequency of advisory visits by
RRISL staff is constrained by a lack of vehicles within RRISL.  In view of
the wide range of soil types and micro-climates represented within the rubber
1/   Twenty each in Kalutara and Ratnapura, ten in Kegalle.  The Mawanella
block rubber factory in Kegalle already collects smallholder latex from
a 20 km radius thus reducing the need for new GPCs in Kegalle.



- 23 -
growing area of Sri Lanka, it is important that RRISL have the mobility to
conduct field trials over a wide area. RRISL laboratory work is constrained
by a shortage of support equipment. The recently completed Masterplan has
identified major investment requirements for RRISL and it is understood that
the UK government would provide financial assistance for such investments.
The project would therefore limit its support for RRISL to the provision of
transport and some ancillary equipment to enable the Institute to better serve
the smallholder sector of the industry.
3.30      The project would provide RRISL with 16 small conventional vehicles
and two four wheel drive vehicles.  It would also provide fifteen 1.5 HP air
conditioners and six 0.5 HP dehumidifiers.  These would be installed in
recently completed laboratories and would provide a suitable environment for
the operation of costly existing equiment such as an autoanalyzer, and atomic
absorption spectrophotometer and direct recording balances.  The lack of
air-conditioned laboratories has restricted the use of such equipment in the
past. Finally, to assist the publicity and training units within ASD, the
project would provide equipment for the photographic unit of RRISL. The
equipment would include slide and movie cameras, projectors and ancillary
items. Provision would also be made for specialized aspects of film making
which would be carried out under contract by the established cinematographic
industry in Sri Lanka. These provisions would be sufficient for the production
of two, 20 minute demonstration films and would save foreign exchange while
providing extension material tailored to the particular circumstances of the
smallholder in Sri Lanka. Details of the cost of the research component are
presented in Annex 4, Table 7.
3.31      The project would also provide for five 12 month post-graduate
fellowships for selected RRISL staff. These fellowships would assist RRISL
in countering the heavy attrition of its better staff through promotion to
other organizations. The five fellowships offered would include Soils
Chemistry, Plant Pathology, Genetics and Plant Breeding, and two other fields
to be selected. The cost of these fellowships has been included in the
training component (Annex 4, Table 3). Present rules require persons receiv-
ing fellowship training to enter into a bond to serve the Government for a
stipulated period. This period often amounts to one year of service for every
month of fellowship training received with a maximum of 7 years. During
negotiations agreement was obtained that persons receiving training under the
project would remain with their current employer at least for the period of
the bond.
E.   Project Evaluation
3.32      The proposed project would attempt to reverse the trend towards
declining replanting rates over the past decade by addressing the major
apparent causes of low producer prices, inadequate replanting payments, and
a poorly administered replanting scheme. In view of the many factors which
are likely to influence the smallholder's decision to replant, it is probable
that a better understanding of the smallholder's viewpoint would reveal oppor-
tunities to make the replanting scheme more attractive to smallholders and



- 24 -
more efficient. It is therefore proposed that the project be evaluated during
its implementation in the belief that the results of such an evaluation would
permit fine-tuning of the replanting scheme so as to best serve the small-
holders and the economy.
3.33      To avoid the risk of partiality, the evaluation would be carried
out by the Agrarian Research and Training Institute (ARTI). ARTI is an estab-
lished national research organization with considerable experience in evalua-
tion of agricultural projects. It is currently conducting similar evaluations
for projects financed by the Asian Development Bank and IDA. The evaluation
study has been discussed with ARTI which has agreed to the proposal that the
project would meett ARTI staff and operating costs associated with the conduct
of the evaluation. A consultant would assist ARTE in the design and initial
implementation of the study (para 3.34). It is envisaged that the evaluation
would comprise an initial baseline survey of smalLholders in the project area
which would be ccmpleted together with a report by December 1980. In subse-
quent years, case studies would be conducted as indicated in the terms of
reference for the consultant (Annex 2, Appendix 4) which give further details
of the nature of the studies. ARTI would consult with IDA on the details of
project evaluation. Details of the cost of project evaluation are presented
in Annex 4, Table 7.
F.   Technical Assistance
3.34      Whilst Sri Lanka has considerable experience and expertise in most
aspects of the rubber industry, the project would introduce several new
approaches not previously undertaken by the project agencies. The project
therefore would provide about 15 manmonths of consultant input to supplement
resources within the implementing agencies. Details of this technical assist-
ance are provided in the draft terms of reference (Annex 2, Appendices 1, 2,
3 and 4). An assurance was obtained that the project consultants would be
retained for the above assignments in accordance with the implementation
schedule and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The cost of the
technical assistance component is presented in Annex 4, Table 7. The average
cost of consulting services is estimated at US$6000 per man-month 1/.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the six year project is estimated at US$28.0 M of
which US$7.4 M or 26% would be foreign exchange and US$0.25 M duties and taxes.
Details of costs, summarized in Table 4.1 below, are in Annex 4, Table 9.
1/   Consisting of salary US$3,500, allowances, US$1,200, travel US$800, and
miscellaneous, US$500. The consultants are expected to be nationals of
South East Asian countries.



- 25 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
-----Million Rs------   ----Million US$----    % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Base Cost
Replanting Costs
- Budded stumps         22.1    1.1       23.2    1.43   0.07   1.50
- Fertilizer            12.8   51.2       64.0    0.82   3.30   4.12
Labor and other
inputs              104.9    2.2    107.1    6.77   0.14   6.91
Total replanting
costs             139.8   54.5    194.3    9.02   3.51  12.53          73.8
Institutional Support
Advisory Services
Dept. (ASD)
Investments
- Civil works            8.8      3.0    11.8    0.57   0.19   0.76
- Equipment              0.6      7.7      8.3    0.04   0.50   0.54
Staffing                15.8       -      15.8    1.02    -       1.02
Operating Costs          2.8      5.0      7.8    0.18   0.32   0.50
Total ASD             28.0    15.7    43.7    1.81   1.01   2.82          16.6
Dept. of Rubber
Control (DRC)
Investments
- Civil works            0.6      0.2      0.8    0.04   0.01   0.05
- Equipment              0.5      0.6      1.1    0.03   0.04   0.07
Staffing                 5.2       -       5.2    0.34    -       0.34
Operating Costs          0.8      0.6      1.4    0.05   0.04   0.09
Total DRC               7.1      1.4      8.5    0.46   0.09   0.55         3.3
Training
Investments
- Civil works             0.9      0.5    1.4      0.06   0.03   0.09
- Equipment               0.2      1.1    1.3      0.01   0.07   0.08
Training Courses          1.7      2.3    4.0      0.11   0.15   0.26
Total Training            2.8      3.9    6.7      0.18   0.25   0.43         2.6
Technical Assistance       0.2      1.2    1.4       0.01   0.08   0.09        0.5
Processing Component       1.7      1.2    2.9       0.11   0.08   0.19        1.1
Research Component         1.3      2.2    3.5       0.08   0.14   0.22        1.3
Project Coordination       1.2      0.6    1.8       0.08   0.04   0.12        0.7
Project Evaluation         0.2       -      0.2      0.02    -      0.02       0.1
Total Base Cost          182.3    80.7  263.0    11.77   5.20  16.97    100.0
Physical Contingencies   6.2        2.0    8.2       0.40   0.13   0.53        3.1
Price Contingencies
and rounding           131.2    31.6  162.8       8.46   2.04  10.50        61.9
Total Expected
Project Cost           319.7   114.3  434.0    20.63   7.37  28.00    165.0



- 26 -
Cost estimates for equipment, civil works, staffing and technical assistance,
are based on recent actual costs for comparable items or services in Sri Lanka
adjusted to November 1979 levels. Replanting costs represent the full cost
of all replanting inputs provided to smallholders by GOSL under the Rubber
Replanting Scheme (Annex 4, Table 10). Staffing and other operating costs for
ASD and DRC include those recurrent costs directly attributable to project
activities. The physical contingencies included in the estimates amount to
3.1% of base costs and include 15% for planting material, 10% for civil works
and 5% for fertilizer. Contingencies included for subsequent price escalation
over the project period amount to 60.0% of base costs plus physical contingen-
cies. Price contingencies for local costs have bieen estimated on the basis
of the following estimates of domestic inflation Eor the years 1980 to 1985
respectively: 21%, 15%, 12%, 10%, 10%, and 10%. Price contingencies for
foreign costs have been calculated using the following estimates of inter-
national inflation for the years 1980 to 1985 respectively: 10.5%, 9%, 8%,
7%, 7% and 7%.
B. Proposed Financing
4.02      Project Financing.  The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 M would
finance about 58% of the project cost excluding duties and taxes. It would
cover the full foreign exchange cost (US$7.4 M) and about US$8.6 M equivalent
of the local costs. GOSL would finance the balance of project costs including
taxes and duties (US$12.0 M). Funds would be made available to the implement-
ing agencies in the form of budgetary allocations, The proposed project
financing is summarized below:
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$'000)
Total Project Costs
Components                   GOSL      IDA    including Contingencies
Replanting Costs /a
-  Replanting Payments    2,207    13,271               15,478
-  Fertilizer Subsidies   5,559          -               5,559
ASD                         2,967      1,551             4,518
DRC                           848        139               987
Training                      158        427               585
Technical Assistance          -           96                96
Processing                     48        237               285
Research                       17        253               270
PCU                           168         26               194
Project Evaluation             28         -                 28
Total                12,000    16,000              28,000
/a   The replanting cost includes fertilizer subsidies which would
be funded by GOSL.  These subsidies together with the replant-
ing payments made under the Rubber Replanting Scheme, are
fully recovered from rubber growers by GOSL (para 7.10).



- 27 -
4.03      Retroactive financing is proposed for pre-project expenditures
required to achieve the 1981 rubber replanting target. These include training
of newly recruited extension staff, early construction of the training center,
and procurement of some urgently needed vehicles and equipment. The amounts
involved would be small and IDA's share of the retroactive financing would not
exceed US$0.2 M.
4.04      Financing of the Rubber Replanting Fund.  Rubber replanting payments
are financed by a Replanting Fund which is financed by a Replanting Cess
levied on rubber exports. The Rubber Replanting Fund is administered by DRC.
At the end of 1979, the fund had accumulated cash reserves of about US$3.1 M.
Financial constraints have not restricted the rubber replanting program in
the past but the proposed rapid acceleration of replanting over the 1980-85
project period would lead to a substantial cash deficit in the fund. As shown
in Annex 4, Table 11, the replantings both within and outside the project area
would entail cash disbursements from the fund of US$39.1 M 1/ while total
revenues over the same period would amount to only US$18.6 M assuming the cess
remained at its current level of Rs 0.35/kg. 1/ Expenditure on replantings
would fully exhaust cash reserves of the fund by end PY2; thereafter the fund
would accumulate a deficit estimated at US$17.4 M by PY6. During the subse-
quent five-year period, the annual deficit of the fund would be of the order
of US$5.5 M. 1/ IDA's proposed direct contribution to the Rubber Replanting
Scheme of US$13.3 M would meet 47% of the expected accumulated fund deficit
of US$28.4 M in current dollars (equivalent to US$17.4 M in constant 1979
dollars) over the project period. The shortfall of US$15.1 M, as well as the
annual deficits thereafter, would have to be funded from government resources.
GOSL's commitment to finance the fund's impending deficits during and beyond
the project period would thus be crucial to the implementation of the accel-
erated replanting program.
4.05      The deficits could be funded through budgetary provisions as indi-
cated in Annex 4, Table 11. Alternatively, the replanting cess could be
increased to generate additional revenue for the fund, in which case a Replant-
ing Cess of some Rs 0.80/kg would be required. The latter approach, however,
would reduce the producers' margin unless the export duty were reduced by an
amount corresponding to the increase in replanting cess. A decision on the
method by which the fund deficits would be financed would be reached during
negotiations. In view of the importance of funding the accelerated replanting
scheme adequately, and of the danger of eroding producer margins through indis-
criminate increases in the cess, the following assurances were obtained at
negotiations. GOSL would (i) provide the Replanting Fund with the resources
necessary to finance deficits involved in implementing the project and sustain-
ing the island wide replanting scheme at the optimum replanting rate of about
8,100 ha per year; and (ii) annually review and submit to IDA the financing
requirements of the Fund to carry out the replanting scheme: such review
would include an analysis of the impact of financing arrangements on producer
margins.
1/   In constant 1979 prices.



- 28 -
C. Procurement
4.06      Replanting activities would be carried out by individual smallholders
using family or hired labor. Replanting payments for such work would cover
the costs of (i) planting materials (US$1.50 M) ard fertilizer at the subsi-
dized rate applicable to all fertilizer sales in Sri Lanka (US$1.51 M) which
would be provided in kind to the planters; and (ii) the cost of other required
inputs and of hir:Lng labor (or otherwise compensating the smallholder for his
own labor) (US$6.91 M). Nursery works to provide planting materials would be
carried out by force account on State rubber estates (JEDB and SPC). This
approach is preferred both on grounds of quality and cost; the estates have
the expertise necessary to produce high quality planting materials, and they
have a large, under-utilized work force. Fertilizer would be purchased by the
project at government rates from either of the two government corporations
dealing with fertilizers or imported directly by the DRC. Separate tenders
for the project requirements would not be practicable since rubber fertilizer
requires mixing of several inputs (themselves ingredients of other types of
fertilizer); nor would it be in the interest of economy since the government
corporations, by tendering on much larger quantities, would obtain more
competitive prices. Contracts for civil works (US$0.99 M) would be small and
widely dispersed (one training center for US$0.09 M, three regional office
buildings for US$0.06 M, three fertilizer stores for US$ 0.06 M, 78 houses for
US$0.70 M and 50 GPCs for US$0.08 M). Such works would not be suitable for
ICB contracts and would be let following local competitive bidding amongst the
numerous local contractors. Contracts for vehicles and equipment (US$1.02 M)
costing more than US$100,000 would be let following ICB: a preference limited
to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the import duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
All other contracts would be let following local competitive bidding in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. There is an adequate
representation of foreign suppliers in Sri Lanka. Items purchased under
contracts costing less than US$5,000 and specialized research equipment, would
be procured through prudent shopping. The balance of project costs would
comprise staff salaries and other administrative expenditures (US$ 2.08 M),
technical assistance and overseas training (US$0.23 M), local training
(US$0.12 M), fertilizer subsidies (US$2.6 M) and contingencies (US$11.03 M).
D. Disbursements and Audits
4.07      Disbursements from the proposed credit are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1986, approximately six months after the end of project implemen-
tation. The estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 4,
Table 12.   Disbursements under the Credit would cover:
(a) 80% of replanting payments made to rubber replanters (US$11.20 M);
(b) 80% of expenditures for civil works (US$'.15 M);
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment,
(d)  100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) ior locally manufac-
tured equipment and materials following competitive bidding
procedur es,



- 29 -
(e) 80% of local expenditures for vehicles and equipment locally
procured without competitive bidding procedures (US$1.10 M); and
(f) 100% of the cost of technical assistance and overseas training
(US$0.25 M).
The unallocated portion of the credit (US$2.30 M) would be reallocated to
the above categories as required. No disbursements would be made against
salaries and related administrative expenditures or against local training.
Details of disbursements for each component are given in Annex 4, Table 13.
4.08      Disbursements against replanting payments referred to in para 4.07
would be made against quarterly certified statements of expenditures. All
payments under small civil works, vehicles, and equipment procured through
local contracts, the value of which would not exceed Rs 100,000, would be
made against statements of expenditures. Documentation for these expendi-
tures would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by DRC,
ASD, and RRISL, and made available for inspection by IDA on request. Full
documentation would be required for all other disbursements. Although the
implementing agencies' accounting procedures are adequate, the accounting
units require additional staff which the project would provide to enable the
agencies to prepare adequate project accounts and statements of expenditures.
During negotiations an assurance was obtained that the additional staff
required would be appointed not later than January 1, 1981. Project accounts,
including those related to statements of expenditures would be maintained in
the manner described in Annex 3 of the report. The estimated schedule of
disbursements is presented in Annex 4.
4.09      Assurances were obtained that DRC, ASD and RRISL would keep
separate accounts of expenditures made under the project irrespective of
whether these would be eligible for IDA disbursements. These accounts would
be audited annually for each fiscal year in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied. Accounts would be submitted for audit within
four months 1/ of the end of the financial year, audited not later than ten
months 1/ after the end of such year, and the audit report submitted to IDA
within twelve months. Statements of expenditure would be audited at least once
every six months and the reports furnished to IDA. Such reports would show,
inter alia, that the funds withdrawn were used for the purposes intended, that
funds have been received or work performed, and that payments have been made.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Background
5.01      Two ministries within GOSL are directly concerned with the rubber
industry. The Ministry of Plantation Industries (MPI) is responsible for
1/   These requirements follow GOSL standing regulations for the routine
audit of government agencies' accounts.



- 30 -
all aspects other than trading, while the Ministry, of Trade and Shipping
regulates and participates in rubber trading. A third ministry, Industries,
is indirectly involved with rubber through its responsibility for industrial
development which includes rubber processing. ThE. key ministry for the rubber
industry is MPI. Agencies responsible to MPI include the Department of Rubber
Control (DRC), the Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka (RRISL) and its
subordinate Advisory Services Department (ASD), and the recently established
State Rubber Manufacturing Corporation (SRMC) which implements the processing
development program of GOSL. The State Plantation Corporation (SPC) and the
Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB), formerly under MPI, have now become
two separate ministries and together operate public sector estates. Details of
the operations of DRC, ASD and RRISL have been presented previously (para 2.11
et seq).
5.02      The Ministry of Trade and Shipping regulates the export trade
through its Commoclity Purchase Department (CPD). CPD exercises a monopoly on
the marketing of RSS grades 1, 2 and 3 (para 2.20), licenses shippers,issues
export permits, and supervises the grading of shipments.
5.03      A fourth ministry, Finance and Planning, is peripherally involved
with the rubber industry through its financing functions which include the
collection of cesses and duties on rubber exports by the Department of Customs.
5.04      The present system of management of the rubber industry has a major
weakness in the area of policy formulation and planning. Although these are
responsibilities of MPI, it does not have the capability to carry out these
key functions effe!ctively with the result that there has been no consistent
policy for rubber development. A further weakness related to the policy area,
is lack of clearly defined responsibilities for the concerned institutions with
some areas of overlap in both regulatory and executive functions. This latter
weakness suggests the need for some changes in the industry's organizational
structure.
5.05      The Masterplan has proposed extensive reorganization of the industry.
The report was released in December 1979 and its recommendations are currently
under consideraticn by GOSL. The Masterplan has proposed that a Rubber Indus-
try Development Authority (RIDA) be established within MPI with responsibility
for all aspects of the industry, including planning.  It proposes that RIDA
operate through two executive boards; one for research and development, the
other for rubber manufacturing and marketing. RIDA would be headed by a
Director-General with executive power over all agencies within RIDA. He
woulc be responsible to and guided by a Board with members drawn widely from
the industry and the concerned ministries.
5.06      The Masterplan was originally scheduled for completion by mid 1979
and its delayed release has meant that the overall organizational structure
of the rubber industry has yet to be formulated. IDA proposes to continue to
discuss this aspect with GOSL and has meanwhile indicated to GOSL what it
regards as the critical elements of the overall organization. These critical
elements comprise a minimum package of organizationial changes which would be
required in any overall organizational restructuring and which at the same
time, would be sufficient to ensure successful implementation of the project.
They consist of the establishment of a Rubber Policy and Planning Unit (RPPU),
a Rubber Policy Review Committee (RPRC), and a Project Coordination Unit (PCU),



- 31 -
and the separation of ASD from RRISL. MPI has agreed in principle with these
changes which are in general conformity with the Masterplan proposals.
B. Project Organization and Management
5.07      The project would be implemented by three existing agencies:  ASD,
DRC and RRISL. Overall coordination of the project would be the responsibility
of a Project Coordination Unit to be created under the project. Project
evaluation would be carried out by ARTI (para 3.32). The overall project
organization is presented graphically in Annex 4 Chart 2.
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
5.08      PCU would be established within MPI and located in the MPI offices
in Colombo.
5.09      Responsibilities.  The PCU would coordinate all aspects of project
implementation and would serve as the contact point between the implementing
agencies and IDA. Its specific responsibilities would include:
(a) assistance to ASD and DRC in the preparation of annual
work plans and budgets for project activities. These
would be prepared at least six months prior to the start
of each financial year;
(b) assistance to ASD and DRC in project procurement including
preparation of tender documents, issue of tenders, evalu-
ation of bids and recommendations for awards;
(c) design of progress reporting procedures for ASD, DRC and
RRISL in conjunction with staff of these agencies;
(d) monitoring of project implementation through formal
(progress report review) and informal means (field
visits and personal contacts);
(e) preparation and submission of applications for with-
drawal from the proposed credit on behalf of ASD, DRC
and RRISL;
(f)   collation of progress reports and project accounts from
ASD, DRC and RRISL, and preparation and submission to
IDA of Quarterly Progress Reports and Annual Project
Accounts and;
(g)   liaison with the Agrarian Research and Training Insti-
tute to coordinate and facilitate the evaluation study.
5.10      Staffing.  PCU would have a professional staff of three with nine
support staff (Annex 4, Table 6). It would be headed by a Project Coordinator
(PC) who would be responsible to and report to the Chairman of the Steering
Committee or its successor, the Rubber Policy Review Committee (RPRC) following
its formation. The RPRC would provide the forum for decisions on project
implementation. A satisfactory Project Coordinator has already been designated



- 32 -
and agreement is being reached on his terms of reference. An agreement was
obtained during negotiations that the position of Project Coordinator would
at all times be filled by a person whose qualifications and experience were
satisfactory to IDA.
Advisory Services Department (ASD)
5.11      ASD would be transferred from RRISL and would become a department
in its own right. During negotiations an assurance was obtained that ASD
would be established as a separate department and fully staffed not later
than January 1, 1981.
5.12      Responsibilities of ASD would be revised under the project and
would comprise:
(a)  provision of advice to smallholders and estates on all
aspects of rubber husbandry, exploitation practices,
disease control, and the transmission of research
findings;
(b)  provision of technical and managerial advice to RSS
producers comprising both private processors and group
processing centers;
(c) all field level contacts with smallholder replanters
including inspection of holdings for issue of replanting
permits, inspection of replantings for authorization of
replanting payments and inputs, and distribution of
replanting inputs; and
(d) systematic quadrennial field checks on rubber holding
registration details to update the industry records on
extent, age, and condition of rubber on smallholdings.
Details of the monitoring system ASD would use are given in Annex 1.
5.13      Staffing.  To enable it to carry out these activities, ASD would
be reorganized and its staff increased substantial:Ly. The proposed internal
organization of ASD is indicated in Annex 4 Chart 3. ASD would be headed by
a Director who would be assisted by a Deputy Director for Field Services and
a Deputy Director for Administration and Training. Field Services would
comprise three divisions: Extension, dealing with replanting and general
advisory work; Processing, dealing with advice to processors; and Supplies,
dealing with the distribution of replanting inputs to smallholders. The
Training Division would be located at the training center. Administrative
staff would be located at ASD headquarters in Colombo and would include a new
accounts section. ASD professional field staff serving the project area would
be increased from 47 to 139 by recruitment and promotion over a period of four
years. Head office professional staff would be increased from 8 to 15 includ-
ing the staff of the Training Division.  Details of incremental staff are
presented in Annex 4, Table 2.



- 33 -
5.14      Staff of the Extension Division would be increased threefold.  The
three new RAOs would be either experienced graduates or senior field staff
without university qualifications and the three new DREOs would be promoted
from REO ranks. The existing cadre of 41 REOs would be expanded to 54 by
recruitment of high school graduates with GCE A level qualifications. The
position of REO is eagerly sought after and there would be no difficulty
selecting suitable staff. The bulk of the incremental staff in ASD would
comprise 108 Extension Overseers (EO) who would be locally recruited. The
qualifications for this new cadre would be high school graduate with GCE 0
level. Competition for these positions is expected to be intense.
5.15      The Processing Advisory Division (PAD) would be established within
ASD under the project. Its staff would comprise three Senior Processing
Advisors (SPA) located at the regional offices, and nine Processing Advisors
(PA) who would be located in the field. Each SPA would supervise all PAs in
one region and would assist them in field activities. The SPAs and PAs would
be recruited in project year 1 and would participate in a one month training
course to be given at the ASD training center early in year 2 after the more
urgent training of new ASD recruits had been completed. All recruits would
be required to have had extensive experience in RSS production and should pre-
ferably be experienced in bookkeeping and accounting. Academic qualifications
of SPAs and PAs would be the same as for REOs. It is envisaged that some of
these positions would be filled from DREO/REO ranks and the rest by recruit-
ment outside ASD. The Supplies Division (SD) would be a new division within
ASD with responsibility for supply of replanting inputs to smallholders. Its
head would be located at the head office and he would operate through the RAOs
at regional offices. The Training Division would also be established within
ASD under the project. It would have a professional staff of seven including
the publicity unit and its staff would operate from the training center. The
Administrative Division would comprise an administrative officer, an accoun-
tant, and 14 clerks, and would include a new accounting unit.
5.16      Training.  The project would support a greatly expanded training pro-
gram for ASD staff which is summarized in Annex 4, Table 3. All formal train-
ing courses would be conducted at the ASD training center under the supervision
of the Training Division. Teaching staff would also be drawn from RRISL, DRC
and SPC/JEDB as required. Newly recruited REOs would undergo a three month
induction course and EOs a two month induction course. Refresher courses for
existing REOs would last one to two weeks. Courses would also be conducted
in rubber processing: the new cadre of processing advisors would be trained
in year 2 and regular courses conducted twice yearly from year 2 onwards for
private sector processors and GPC members. These regular courses would cover
both the technical aspects of processing, and the managerial and financial
aspects of GPC operations. The training courses in processing would be
designed by senior ASD staff working in conjunction with the processing con-
sultant. A consultant would assist ASD in developing curricula for the various
courses. Two senior ASD staff would participate in a six week pre-project
study tour to Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia, to review the operation of
replanting programs in those countries. Two officers from DRC and the Project
Coordinator would also participate in the study tour. Three RAO's from ASD
would join three Assistant Controllers from DRC for a three week study tour
to Malaysia in year 1. From year 2 onwards, three selected ASD field staff



- 34 -
would visit one country to be decided for a three week study tour. The project
would also provide two fellowships for postgraduat:e studies for ASD staff.
5.17      Funding.  ASD would be funded by Budgetary allocation following
normal GOSL procedures as outlined in Annex 3.
Department of Rubber Control (DRC)
5.18      DRC would be strengthened under the projlect and would revise some
of its procedures for the administration of the replanting scheme. These
revised procedures would be necessary to continue its decentralization to
regional offices, and to increase its processing efficiency to enable it to
service increased numbers of replanters. DRC would establish three regional
offices in the project area which would also accomodate the regional staff of
ASD, to improve inter-agency coordination.  One regional office has already
been established in Kalutara, and the other two offices would be occupied as
soon as construction is completed.
5.19      Responsibilities. DRC would relinquish t:o ASD its present responsi-
bilities for inspection of holdings, authorizatioa of replanting payments,
and distribution oDf replanting inputs. It would also hand over its respon-
sibility for production of planting material to SFIC/JEDB. Its previous
responsibility for setting replanting payments anc, cess levels, would be
assigned to the Rubber Policy and Planning Unit in MPI (para 5.24). An agree-
ment on a satisfactory timetable for the transfer of these responsibilities
has been obtained. Within the project area, DRC operations would be fully
decentralized with one regional office servicing each region. The regional
offices would register holdings, issue replanting permits and make cash pay-
ments on receipt of authorization from ASD. DRC would continue to collect
and maintain industry statistics relating to rubbe!r area, production, process-
ing and marketing. DRC would estimate replanting input requirements and
procure these inputs. It would retain its inspectors to verify a sample of
the inspections carried out by ASD officers.
5.20      Procedures.  DRC would develop simpler procedures for the adminis-
tration of the replanting program (Annex 2, Appendix 1). These procedures
would be fully developed under the project after DRC staff had studied pro-
cedures in Malaysia and Thailand. A consultant would assist in the develop-
ment of such improved procedures (para 3.34). It is envisaged that DRC would
reach a decision on procedural changes by end PYI and would implement these
changes gradually over the subsequent years of the project. In the interven-
ing period, DRC would continue to follow its present procedures but the staff-
ing proposals outlined below would enable it to speed up its handling of
replanting assistance. The Masterplan includes de!tailed recommendations for
procedural and organizational changes within DRC. It has proposed that future
DRC operations makie extensive use of a computer to speed up its work but it
has also proposed an alternative manual system.  Ihe UK Government is expected
to provide additional assistance, 1/ to DRC to further improve its capacity to
I/   Such assistance is expected to include computer facilities and technical
assistance.



- 35 -
service replanters and to maintain industry statistics. There is a clear
need to ensure conformity between the responsibilities of DRC under the
project, and those that may be envisaged for DRC under the anticipated UK-
financed project referred to in the Masterplan. Therefore, during nego-
tiations, an agreement was obtained that GOSL would consult with IDA concern-
ing any proposed changes to its procedures for the administration of the
replanting scheme.
5.21      Staffing.  Despite the reduction in its responsibilities, DRC would
require some additional staff to reduce the time taken to process the paperwork
for replanting assistance. The total personnel required to staff the regional
offices would be 162, of whom all but 11 would be clerks or support staff. The
staffing has been based on work norms suggested by senior DRC officers and
would be subject to revision after details of improved administrative proced-
ures are decided. Staff requirements would be reduced if DRC proceeds with a
proposal to use a computer-based data retrieval system. Details of the staff
requirements are presented in Annex 4, Table 5.
5.22      Training.  Two senior DRC staff would participate in a pre-project
study tour to Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia, to review the operation of
replanting programs in those countries. In addition, the three Assistant
Controllers in charge of the regional offices would study the administrative
procedures of one national replanting program for a period of three weeks in
year 1. All other training of new and existing staff would be carried out on
the job in Colombo and the regional offices.
5.23      Funding.  In the past, DRC administrative costs have been met from
a number of cesses with resulting complications in maintaining accounts which
allocate costs to the appropriate cess. The increased workload of DRC under
the project would result in increased administrative costs necessitating
increases in the cesses. However, since DRC's operations on behalf of rubber
producers are comparable to those of ASD which are funded by budgetary alloca-
tion, it has been proposed that DRC operations would in future also be funded
by budgetary allocaton from MPI, and only replanting payments themselves be
met from the replanting cess.
Rubber Policy and Planning Unit (RPPU)
5.24      RPPU would be established within MPI to develop appropriate policies
for the rubber industry and to plan their implementation. It is envisaged that
RPPU would have a staff of about 10 comprising a senior economist, an econome-
trician, two graduate assistants and the staff of the Economic Research Unit
currently under RRISL. In addition, RPPU would co-opt the services of special-
ists in particular areas requiring technical knowledge beyond that of its staff.
5.25       RPPU would serve in an advisory role and would submit its policy
and planning recommendations via the Secretary, MPI to the Rubber Policy Review
Committee whose compostion and functions are described below (para 5.26). The
specific concerns of RPPU would include the following:



- 36 -
(a) Replanting Targets -- these would be fonnulated by RPPU
based on the age structure of the national stand, exploit-
ation rates, and projected demand prospects. Data for this
analysis would be drawn from DRC registration records, aerial
surveys, and specific studies as required;
(b) Replanting Payment Levels -- the level of replanting payments
would be adjusted in future according to movements in the
costs of labor and material inputs which RPPU would monitor;
(c) Producer Margins -- RPPU would monitor the costs of produc-
tion of rubber for producers of differing holding sizes
in order to recommend appropriate levels of producer margins
and thus to define the surplus available for export duties,
taxes and cesses;
(d) Processing Capacity -- RPPU would review market prospects
for alternative forms of processed rubber and recommend
levels of processing capacity appropriate to such prospects.
These recommendations would form the basis on which licences
would be issued for capacity expansion. RPPU would also
recommend what level of incentives, if arLy, would be required
to induce private enterprise to expand processing capacity;
and
(e) International Organizations -- RPPU would represent Sri
Lanka in its dealings with the Association of Natural
Rubber Producing Countries (ANRPC), the International
Rubber Study Group (IRSG) and other similar organizations.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that a Rubber Policy and Planning
Unit would be established within MPI not later than January 1, 1981, with
staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA which would include, inter
alia, responsibility for advising the RPRC on levels of industry cesses,
duties, and replanting payments.
Rubber Policy Review Committee (RPRC)
5.26      RPRC would review all policy proposals produced by RPPU.  Its
function would be to ensure that policy recommendations to the Minister MPI
reflected adequately both the views of the various interests in the rubber
industry and those of the three other ministries concerned with rubber. The
membership of RPRC would thus necessarily be broad. The existing Steering
Committee, established within MPI to coordinate the preparation of this pro-
posed project and to guide the Masterplan team, would form the basis of RPRC.
Additional members would be drawn from the other ministries and from rubber
producers and processors. The proposed composition of RPRC is indicated in
Chart 2 of Annex 4.
5.27       RPRC would meet as required to review policy proposals from RPPU.
Those proposals endorsed by the Committee would be conveyed in the form of



- 37 -
recommendations to the Minister MPI, by the Chairman. Proposals not receiv-
ing the Committee's endorsement would be either submitted to RPPU with sug-
gested amendments, or passed on to the Minister for consideration together
with a report of the Committee's views. The Committee would also review the
proposed workplan of RPPU and suggest areas worthy of detailed analysis. A
further function of the RPRC would be to receive reports from the PCU and to
reach agreement on details of project implementation. At the discretion of
the Chairman, this latter function would be carried out by a working group
comprising those members of RPRC directly involved in project implementation.
During negotiations an assurance was obtained that a Rubber Policy Review
Committee would be established within MPI with powers and composition accept-
able to IDA, not later than January 1, 1981.
Ombudsmen
5.28      The ombudsmen proposed under the project would be appointed by the
Secretary MPI. It is envisaged that the ombudsmen would be respected local
officials such as district court judges and that they would devote up to two
days per month reviewing written or verbal complaints from smallholders con-
cerning the operation of the replanting scheme. The ombudsmen would receive
an honorarium from MPI for their work. One ombudsman would be appointed in
each district for a three year term. Smallholders would be advised of the
services available from the ombudsman and each leaflet produced by ASD and
DRC would include a statement recommending that smallholders with complaints
concerning the services of ASD or DRC should contact their local ombudsman
for action.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.29      The project would strengthen existing internal monitoring systems
in both ASD and DRC and would support the development of a project-specific
monitoring system within PCU. Details are given in Annex 1.
5.30.     The project's achievements would be evaluated throughout the project
period by ARTI. The evaluation would be carried out from the viewpoint of the
smallholder and would seek to identify any potential changes in the replanting
scheme which would make it more attractive to smallholders. It would also seek
to identify any means whereby the work of RRISL could be modified to better
service smallholders. Further details of the evaluation component are given
in Chapter III (para 3.32 et seq) and in the terms of reference for the evalua-
tion consultant (Annex 2, Appendix 4).



- 38 -
VI. PRODUCTION ASPECTS
A.   The Present Situation
6.01      About 30% of smallholder rubber is either currently over-aged or
will be due for replanting within five years. 1/ 'While the average yield
of smallholder rubber is fairly satisfactory (750 kg/ha 1/), the yield from
aged and over-aged smallholder rubber is very low (100-500 kg/ha 1/). 2/
Much of the old rubber is unselected seedling material with low genetic yield
potential. Taken over all age groups, about 70% is budgrafted with relatively
high yielding clones (of which PB86 accounts for more than 70%); 20% is
seedling material, and 10% clonal seedling (mainly Tj 1). Stands are high
(about 440 trees/ha) reflecting both high planting densities and low losses
due to disease or wind damage. Runts are common since thinning is not normally
practiced. Some 70% of smallholder rubber has beea assessed as acceptable or
better in respect to evenness, vigor and weed control. Ground covers are
generally good with adequate leguminous covers established at planting and
satisfactorily maintained. Soil conservation works are also generally ade-
quate; these usually take the form of small platforms at the planting points
rather than continuous terraces. Fertilizer is rarely applied by smallholders
except during the immature period. Even then, only 20% of the recommended
fertilizer is being used.  Disease incidence is geaerally low:  oidium out-
breaks occur in some years, particularly at higher elevations; panel diseases
are uncommon despite high rainfall; white root disease is however, common,
particularly on estates.
6.02      Exploitation standards are variable and could be considerably
improved. Smallholders normally tap daily but not continuously since tapping
is carried out according to convenience rather than system.  Thus there is no
tapping during festivals, paddy planting, fruit harvesting or wet days. Tap-
ping may be discontinued during periods of low rubber prices. On average,
smallholders tap about 180 days per year. Although high level tapping of older
trees is common, it is usually of poor standard with excessive bark consumption.
Unplanned slaughter tapping causes considerable loss of potential crop and has
hastened the need for replanting. Poor exploitation practices, including
premature opening, reduces the life of many plantings by as much as one third
to about 20 years.
1/   Estimates based on surveys conducted as part of the Rubber Masterplan
Study, 1979.
2/   The average yield for smallholder rubber in Malaysia is about 950 kg/ha.



- 39 -
B.   Project Replantings:  Inputs and Yields
6.03      The projected yield from replanted rubber would average about 1,060
kg/ha over the 24 years of tapping with a peak yield of 1,350 kg/ha. The aver-
age yield thus represents a 400% increase of the present yield of over-aged
rubber which itself could only be sustained for about five years. Complete
details of replanting inputs and projected yields are presented in Annex 1.
The major points concerning replanting procedures are described below.
6.04      Planting Materials.  All replanters would be provided with bare root
brown budded stumps produced by selected SPC/JEDB estates. The cost of
production is currently Rs 1.85 per budded stump and the ex-estate price has
been set at Rs 2.50 per stump for 1981. DRC and ASD have selected 33 estates
for planting material production based on the likely geographical distribution
of replanting: the locations are indicated on Map 14733R. Nurseries for 1981
replantings have already been satisfactorily established. An agreement has
been obtained that the terms and conditions of the contract for the production
of planting material by SPC and JEDB would be satisfactory to IDA. A draft
outline of contract conditions for planting material supply has been provided
to MPI.
6.05      The clones used for project replantings would be those recommended
by RRISL. At present, these are PB 86, RRIC 100 and RRIC 103. 1/ Clone PB 86
has been extensively planted and, although not among the highest yielders in
major rubber producing countries, has proved successful under conditions in
Sri Lanka. Clones RRIC 100 and 103 have been tested, but are not yet planted
extensively. It is probable that there would be a considerable smallholder
preference for PB 86. It is strongly recommended that RRISL should consider
using GT1 for part of the project plantings. The Rubber Masterplan has also
recommended the gradual introduction of higher yielding varieties and these
suggestions are being considered by GOSL. A conservative projected yield
profile for project replanting is presented in Annex 1, Table 2. RRIC 130 is
currently being tested and provided its potential by RRISL is proven, it would
be recommended for use by smallholders.
6.06      Land Preparation and Planting.  All felling, uprooting and sawing of
old rubber trees would be manual. The only tools used would be hand winches
and cross-cut saws. Wherever possible, timber would be sold for firewood or
higher use purposes, 2/ otherwise it would be windrowed and burned. Sufficient
branch timber would be retained to obtain an adequate burn of the roots and a
reburn would be necessary. White Root disease is an increasing problem in
replanting, and every effort would be made to remove and destroy all sources
of nutrients for it by following prescribed uprooting practices.
6.07      Planting distances would be 7.3 m x 3.6 m (24 x 12 feet) on flat
land and 9.1 m x 2.4 m (30 x 8 feet) on slopes over 80 or where intercrops are
1/   RRIC refers to Rubber Research Institute of Ceylon.
2/   If properly and promptly treated to resist decay, rubber wood is a useful
lumber for furniture, flooring and structural purposes. The project would
endeavor to expand this use of old rubber trees by notifying potential
users of the availability of supplies.



- 40 -
planted.  All replantings on slopes of over 8 0, wou]d be either on rehabili-
tated terraces or on platforms; both would be aligned on the contour. Drains
would be dug between the rows.  The location and frequency of these and other
soil conservation works would be decided by the REO during lining. Cover crops
would be established as early as possible to prevent erosion; if burning
permits, covers would be established in the pre-plarting period. Pueraria
phaseloides and Desmodium sp. are currently used and would be recommended
under the project. Covers would be established using cuttings and/or fresh
seed, and establishraent aided by the addition of rock phosphate.
6.08      Although planting can be carried out in both May/June and October/
November, the May/June plantings are preferable since the risk of subsequent
drought is much lower than later in the year. The project would therefore aim
to complete all plantings in June although inevitably some plantings would
be delayed until October/November. Supplies (11%) wDuld be made from budded
stumps planted in trenches on smallholdings at the time of the main planting.
6.09      Upkeep to Maturity.  ASD officers would ensure that the RRISL recom-
mendations for disease control, weeding frequency, cover crop and soil conser-
vation measures would be followed. Details of the operations to be carried out
for the life of the plantation are given in Annex 1, Table 1. Fertilizer would
be distributed twice per year, but ASD officers would encourage smallholders
to retain half their allocations to make four applications in the planting and
second years; thereafter, two applications per year would be satisfactory.
6.10      Inspection Procedures.  ASD field officers (REOs and EOs) would
conduct regular inspections of replantings as a basis for authorization of
replanting payments. During the seven year period from uprooting to opening,
eight standard inspections would be carried out; additional inspections would
be required for those replantings failing to meet prescribed standards. Re-
planting payments would be made to smallholders by DRLC following satisfactory
inspection. The inspections would ensure that prescribed replanting procedures
had been followed. Further details of these procedures and standards are
presented in Annex 1. An agreement was obtained that: not later than January
1, 1981, DRC and ASD would jointly issue a revised Advisory Leaflet for small-
holders detailing the revised procedures to be followed for replanting under
the project which wouald be satisfactory to IDA.
6.11      Exploitation. Tapping of replanted rubber would commence in the
seventh year after planting and all trees would be brought into tapping by the
eighth year. The suggested tapping system would be alternate daily although
some smallholders would continue to tap daily. Yield stimulants would be
used only for the last six years of exploitation. Further details of exploita-
tion practices are given in Annex 1.
C.   Intercropping
6.12      The project: would encourage the cultivation of intercrops together
with rubber in those areas technically suited to intercropping. The major
risks of intercropping are that it would compete with immature rubber for



- 41 -
nutrients, light, labor and capital and increase soil erosion. To minimize
these risks, intercropping under the project would be carefully supervised and
permitted only for certain crops which would be adequately fertilized and
cultivated so as to minimize soil erosion.
6.13      The intercrops to be encouraged under the project would have good
market prospects, give a quick return, be shade tolerant, non-competitive,
and require minimal soil disturbance.  In addition, they would be crops which
RRISL had researched and satisfied itself as to their potential.  All rubber
to be intercropped would be spaced at 9.1 x 2.4 meters (30 x 8 feet) which is
standard for the sloping land generally found in the project area.  ASD
officers would indicate the intercrop most appropriate to the smallholder's
circumstances although the final choice of intercrop would rest with the
smallholder. Bananas could be cultivated almost universally throughout the
project area and are expected to be the most common intercrop. A single row
would be planted at the center of the inter-row with 3.65 m spacing within the
row to give 296 plants/ha. The two favored cultivars would be edible types
equivalent to Gros Michel (synonym Ambon) and Cavendish. Planting material
(suckers) are readily available locally. Smallholders would establish a
nursery in the year prior to planting equivalent to 10% of the final area,
to reduce the cost of planting material. ASD staff would ensure that small-
holders applied recommended levels of fertilizer (15:15:5) and controlled
weeds to minimize competition. Banana is subject to few diseases although
there is some Panama disease and bunchy top and a possibility of nematode
build-up after four years cultivation. No plant protection chemicals would
be used. Details of operations, inputs, yields are given in Annex 1, Table 3.
Annex 4 Table 16 indicates the financial returns to smallholders. Details of
operations, inputs, yields and returns for alternative intercrops (pineapples
and passionfruit) are available in the Project File. For the purpose of
economic analysis, it has been conservatively assumed that less than one
third of smallholders would grow intercrops on an area equivalent to 11%
of the total area of holdings.
VII. DEMAND, PRICES, MARKETING, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
Demand, Prices and Marketing
7.01      Demand.  The demand outlook for elastomers, including both natural
and synthetic rubber is bright, and the competitive position of natural rubber
compared with synthetic rubber is now favorable. It has been strengthened by
recent technical and economic developments, such as the strong market penetra-
tion of radial tires that require more natural rubber, and the improvement in
the price competitiveness of natural rubber compared to petroleum-based
products. Data on projected production from the world's existing area of
rubber and on the planting intentions of producing countries, indicate a future
decline in the rate of expansion of natural rubber output. Unless investment
in natural rubber production increases within the next few years, growth in
consumption of natural elastomers will be severely constrained by supply. If
this supply shortfall is not filled by natural rubber, the synthetic rubber
industry will expand its capacity to produce polyisoprene rubber instead. The
proposed project investments are thus most timely and Sri Lanka would have no



- 42 -
difficulty in exporting the additional project output.  This output of about
25,000 tons/year would represent some 5% of the incremental world demand. 1/
7.02      Prices.  The rubber prices used for financial and economic analyses
were derived from the most recent forecast for RSS1 prices in 1990, and used
throughout the project period. Even though the world market demand for
elastomers is highly insensitive to price changes, the incremental project
output will not affect world market prices due to its small size relative to
total world rubber production. The incremental project output represents only
5% of the projected increase in world demand and only 0.4% of the 1980 pro-
duction of natural rubber (or alternatively 0.13% of the total 1980 elastomer
production). Consequently, the possible depressive effect on (projected)
world market prices, due to the project would be insignificant. In the
analysis the economic price for rubber is the world price for RSS1 corrected
for freight costs and quality differentials and expressed as the FOB Colombo
price (Rs 19.45/kg). The farmgate financial price within the project area
(Rs 7.60/kg) was estimated by deducting projected levels of cesses and duties
as well as handling charges and profit from the financial FOB price. 2/ The
basis for estimates of the project's financial and economic prices for rubber
are presented in Annex 4, Table 14.
7.03      Price Structure.  The forecast rubber price of Rs 19.45/kg FOB
Colombo would be shared as follows: GOSL 55% (52.5% from export duty, and
2.5% from cesses;) intermediaries 5%; rubber producers 40% (Table 15 of Annex
4). Duties and cesses levied on rubber would thus ba quite high, in fact the
highest of any ANRPC 3/ country. For example, at the price level forecast for
1990 total government deductions would be only 27% in Malaysia, and about 25%
in Thailand. On the other hand, the Sri Lankan rubbar producer would benefit
from a more generous package of government assistance in the form of replant-
ing payments and fertilizer subsidies -- which are indirectly financed by
levies on rubber. GOSL deductions of 55% of the FOB price wot'd be applied
against replanting payments (22%) and rubber fertilizer subsidies (14%),
leaving GOSL with 19% of which 8% would be used to administer the Rubber
Replanting Scheme. Thus GOSL's surplus would be only 11% of the FOB price.
In practice therefore the Sri Lankan rubber producer would receive 76% of the
FOB price (40% directly, and 36% in the form of government incentives to rubber
production). Provided that the replanting payments are maintained at the
prevailing rate in real terms (Rs 16,050 in 1979 prices), this would constitute
an appropriate package by providing adequate incentives for the producer (para
7.07), while making a substantial contribution to Govrernment General Revenue
for investment in other sectors (para 7.10).
1/   On conservative assumptions, an annual supply shortfall of about 0.5 M
tons is expected to develop by 1985. Source: The World Rubber Economy,
Structure, Averages, Prospects: World Bank/FAO 1978.
2/   This approach reflects the price setting mechanism used by CPD (para
2.21).
3/   Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries.



- 43 -
7.04       Rubber Marketing.  The bulk of project output would be processed
as at present (details in para 2.18). Under the project, a slightly increased
share of the output (4-5%) would be processed by GPCs with a corresponding
reduction in processing by smallholders. All project output would be marketed
through existing channels (para 2.20) which provide an efficient and fair
market to smallholders. As indicated, only small quantities of rubber are
expected to be sold as latex to crepe or block factories. In the longer term,
it is possible that latex sales would increase in response to changes in world
demand for RSS compared with other forms of rubber. Such a change is too
uncertain to warrant investment in latex collection centers at this stage.
7.05      Intercrop Marketing.  No difficulty is foreseen in the marketing of
bananas for which there is a strong local demand. The crop is traditionally
grown in home gardens throughout the rubber area and there is a well estab-
lished network of small middlemen who go on foot from farm to farm to contract
the purchase of bunches before maturity. They later collect the bunches and
transport them by hired truck to the local fair where larger middlemen from
Colombo purchase their weekly supply. The rapidly expanding tourist industry
in Sri Lanka, and increasing demand from the Middle East is expected to main-
tain the recent trend of strong local prices. Hence, for the financial analy-
sis, current prices for bananas of average grade were projected throughout
the period. (Rs 20/bunch at farmgate, resold at about three times that amount
in Colombo.) Colombo prices less estimated costs for transport and handling
(Rs 20/bunch) were used in the economic analysis (Rs 40/bunch).
7.06      Marketing of the alternative intercrops (pineapples and passion-
fruit) would present no difficulty: there is a strong demand for these fruits
which are purchased by GOSL's efficient Marketing Department and by private
processors. Details of marketing arrangements for pineapples and passionfruit
are available in the Project File.
Financial Returns to Smallholders
7.07      An analysis of financial returns from replanting was carried out
to ascertain whether the proposed replanting scheme would be attractive to
smallholders. Two extreme cases are presented: firstly the smallholder who
uses only his family's labour, and secondly the smallholder who hires labour.
It was felt that in the latter case, which applies to the larger smallholdings,
the smallholder would be mainly interested in increasing his return to capital,
and hence the financial internal rate of return (IRR) provides an appropriate
measure of incentive. In the former case however, the smallholder does not
contribute capital and the IRR is less relevant. Such smallholders would be
interested in increasing annual income and the net return to family labor.
The appropriate measures of incentive for such smallholders are thus the net
income increase (NII) 1/ and the net return per man-day (NR/MD) at full devel-
opment.  Values for these indicators are presented in Annex 4, Table 16.  The
1/   NII = Present Value of Incremental Net Income
Present value of Without Project Net Income
It represents the increase in the smallholder's average annual income as
a result of the investment, and is expressed in percentage terms.



- 44 -
results indicate that, without intercrops or financial assistance, the proposed
investment has a marginal NII of 18% and an unsatisfactory IRR of 11% and
hence would provide little incentive to either category of smallholder. How-
everD with financial assistance in the form of replanting payments, replanting
would be attractive with a corresponding NII and IRR of 35% and 32%, respec-
tively.
7.08      Replanting Payments and Smallholder's Cash Flow.  Smallholders parti-
cipating in the project would receive replanting payments to offset the costs
of replanting. These replanting payments comprise both the supply of inputs in
kind (planting material and fertilizer) and payments in cash. The cash payments
provide for the purchase of inputs not supplied in kind including payment for
labor inputs. For smallholders using only family labor, part of the cash
payments represents compensation for their own labor. The replanting payments
constitute an advance to replanters since they are fully recovered through
taxes on rubber exports (para 7.10). The replanting payments would be spread
over eight installments as shown in Annex 4, Table 18. (A comparison with
actual replanting costs is presented in Annex 4 Table 10)
7.09      These replanting payments, totalling Rs 16,050, would provide an
adequate cash flow for the smallholder throughout the immature period as shown
in Annex 4, Table 18. They would fully compensate the cash deficit 1/ of
a smallholder using only family labor (Case I of Table 18). Smallholders able
to sell their rubberwood, would earn a net surplus of about Rs 2,500 per ha,
which would provide an additional incentive to replant. Smallholders who
intercropped their immature rubber (Case II) would earn incomes in excess of
their pre-project income during the immature period. Intercropping would thus
provide a further incentive to replant. The larger smallholder who uses all
hired labor on his rubber plantation (Case III) would receive identical replant-
ing payments. This is reasonable in view of the administrative difficulties
involved in providing differential replanting payments, the lack of long-term
credit for investments in agriculture, the marginal return on replanting with-
out the replanting assistance (IRR of 11%), and in view of past low replanting
rates among this category of producers in times of low replanting payments.
Furthermore, some 57% of the replanting payment would comprise payment for
labor which would be largely drawn from the under-privileged landless group.
Finally, the overall cost recovery by Government wDuld be most satisfactory,
even excluding additional revenue from increased income tax levied on the
larger smallholders.
Financial Return to Government and Cost Recovery
7.10      While providing smallholders with adequate remuneration and incen-
tives, the replanting scheme would also provide Government with an adequate
financial return. Government contribution to the replanting scheme takes the
form of replanting payments, administrative overheads and fertilizer subsidies.
1/   Defined here as cash outlay on inputs plus inzome foregone from uprooted
old rubber.



- 45 -
Its revenues from the scheme include cesses and export duties. An illustra-
tive Government Project Cash Flow is shown at Annex 4, Table 19. High replant-
ing payments and overhead costs, plus loss of revenue from uprooting would
result in a cumulative deficit of Rs 350 M (US$22.6 M) over the project
implementation period. Government expenditure on fertilizer subsidies would
further increase the total cumulative deficit to Rs 391 M (US$25.2) by PY6.
An additional Rs 299 M (US$19.3 M) would be required between PY7 and PYIO to
bring all project plantings into production, resulting in a peak cumulative
deficit of Rs 690 M (US$44.5 M) in PY10. Beyond PY10 there would be annual
surpluses in net GOSL revenue and all project costs would have been recovered
(without interest) by PY15 when the cash flow shows a cumulative surplus of
Rs 0.35 M (US$0.2M). Annual surpluses from that year on would progressively
increase from Rs 200 M (US$12.9 M) to Rs 251 M (US$16.2 M) in PY20 when peak
yields would have been reached. The financial rate of return to Government
from the project is estimated to be about 14%. The project cost recovery
index (CRI) 1/ at the estimated opportunity cost of capital (12%) would be
1.10. The CRI for replanting payments to smallholders would be 2.2 (i.e.,
excluding administrative overheads and subsidies).
7.11      Although the replanting cess is earmarked to finance the national
replanting program, cess revenue would contribute only part of the revenue
required to meet all replanting payments as they became due. As indicated in
Annex 4 Table 11, cess revenue would meet 71% of total replanting payments in
PY1 but only 36% in PY6. The balance would come from the export duty which is
credited to Government general revenue. If the replanting cess were to fully
meet replanting payments as they became due, thus maintaining the liquidity of
the Replanting Fund, it would have to be set at a level of about Rs 0.80/kg 2/
(see paras 4.04 and 4.05).
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits
8.01      The project's direct benefits would result from increased production
and improved quality of rubber most of which would be exported thus improving
Sri Lanka's balance of payments. The benefits would take the form of addi-
tional Government revenue from export taxes levied on the project's rubber
output and increased earnings for some 33,000 smallholders, half of whom would
be drawn from the poverty income target group. The project would also streng-
then the national institutions responsible for smallholder rubber development,
thus yielding benefits much beyond the immediate project.
8.02      At full development in 1999, successful project implementation would
lead to incremental annual production of about 25,000 tons of rubber, a 15%
increase over Sri Lanka's current annual production. At projected world
market prices, the gross value of the annual incremental output would decline
1/   CRI = NPV Government Revenue
NPV Government Expenditures
2/   In 1979 dollars.



- 46 -
from a peak of US$30 M 1/ in 1999 to about US$23 bN 1/ at the end of the
project life in 2009. Allowing for the added imports of fertilizers and agro-
chemicals which would be necessary to obtain the projected yields, the project
would represent a net annual foreign exchange savings of about US$28 M 1/ in
1999. The processing component would yield additional foreign exchange earn-
ings of about US$0.25 M by 1990, US$0.70 M in 1999, decreasing to US$0.6 M
by the end of the project life. Intercrops would provide an additional
US$1.6 M 1/ annua'lly between PY2 and PY9 as a result of the increased avail-
ability of fruits which would make it possible to release part of the con-
strained domestic output for exports and for sale within Sri Lanka to the
local tourism industry. In terms of net present value at the estimated
opportunity cost of capital (12%), total net foreign exchange savings from
rubber production alone would be about US$30 M ovEr project life, or approx-
imately 6 times the foreign exchange cost. These foreign exchange benefits
would, however, bes slow to materialize due to the long gestation period of
rubber trees. External assistance support to GOSL's balance of payment in
the medium term would therefore be warranted.
Project Beneficiaries.
8.03      Some 27,000 smallholders would benefit f'rom the project by replant-
ing. Another 6,000 smallholders would benefit from the processing component
of the project. 'In an effort to determine project impact on the target group
(income below US$76 per capita per year or Rs 1,178), pre-project household
income levels of project participants were estimated using results of previous
surveys. Data remain uncertain since household incomes were influenced markedly
by off-farm earnings for which only average figures were available. Mission
estimates of per capita income for the four representative holdings of 0.4,
0.8, 2.6 and 12 ha are shown in Annex 4 Table 20. It shows that pre-project
household income of the two smaller holdings is below the poverty income level.
Given that these fEigures are averages, one can expect a proportion of these
smallholders to be absentee owners with possibly substantial off-farm earnings.
Hence, to be conservative, it has been assumed that only 80% of the 0.4 ha and
only 70% of the 0.8 ha project participants would be drawn from the target
group. Under these assumptions, at least 47% of direct project beneficiaries
would belong to the target group and would share 26% of total project bene-
fits. 2/ At present the income distribution in Sri Lanka is such that the
target group (lowest 22% income group) receives some 10% of total private
income. Thus, by allocating 26% of total project benefit to this group, the
project will have a positive impact on income distribution. At full develop-
ment, the total income of the first category of smallholders would increase
by more than 50% on average but would still be below the poverty income level.
The incomes of the next larger smallholders (0.8 ha) would increase 70% which
would bring them above the poverty income level. These findings are sum-
marized in Annex 4 Table 20 which indicates that as a result of the project,
the proportion of project participants within the poverty income group would
decrease from 47% to about 18%.
1/   In 1979 dollars.
2/   This analysis has been restricted to beneficiaries of the replanting
component and does not inc'Lude some 6,000 smallholders expected to bene-
fit marginally through improved processing services under the project.



- 47 -
Employment
8.04      Under the assumption that without the project, plantations of already
over-aged rubber would be abandoned after five years, the project would result
in a net increase in labor demand of 5 million workdays/year at full develop-
ment, or approximately 19,000 full-time jobs. In practice, however, it is
likely that some of this land would be replanted using poor cultural techniques
and low yielding seedlings even without assistance from a replanting scheme.
The project would therefore provide fewer jobs than indicated above. Assuming
that half the project rubber area would have been replanted anyway, the project
would provide an additional 9,500 full-time jobs. The project's impact on
labor productivity would be more certain: the net return to labor would
increase fourfold to reach Rs 32 at full maturity (15 years after planting).
Since many hired tappers are paid on the basis of output, it can be expected
that part of the incremental earnings from rubber would be passed on to these
laborers, most of whom would certainly belong to the poverty income group.
Thus, the project would have a significant but unquantifiable impact on the
incomes of many poor laborers in the project area.
Environmental Effects
8.05      The project would have no adverse effects on the environment.  Pro-
ject replantings would generally improve ground cover and reduce soil erosion.
Agro-chemical use with rubber is minimal and the chemicals are non-toxic. The
small scale processing supported by the project has no associated effluent
disposal problems.
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests
8.06      The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a
whole. Summary economic costs and benefits are presented in Annex 4, Table
21 and details are included in the Project File. The following assumptions
have been used in the analysis.
(a)  benefits and costs are expressed in constant end-1979
prices, net of identifiable local taxes and subsidies;
(b)  the incremental project output of rubber and bananas is
valued at forecast world prices as described in paras 7.02
and 7.05;
(c)  the exchange rate is taken at a constant Rs 15.5 = US$1.0,
which was the prevailing official exchange rate (OER) at
time of appraisal;
(d)  incremental farm labor is valued at a seasonally adjusted
wage rate ranging from 50% to 100% of the peak market rate,



- 48 -
in order to reflect the prevailing unemployment and under-
employment in the project area. 1/
(e)  The economic prices for traded goods (ruhber, bananas, fertil-
izers and equipment) are based on their 'order prices at the
OER. The domestic cost components, i.e. transport and market-
ing charges, are adjusted by conversion factors (CF) respec-
tively 1.11 (CF for road transport) and 0.91 (Standard CF).
The specific conversion factors applied to all major non-traded
inputs are indicated in Annex 4, Table 22.
(f)   Expected benefits from upgrading of rubber through better
processing as a result of the processing component have been
included;
(g)   Production foregone as a result of uprooting and replanting
of rubber is fully costed at an average yield of 265 kg/ha for
the estimated remaining productive life of the plantation (five
years);
(h) Full costs of the institutional support components (DRC, ASD,
technical assistance, research and project administration)
have been included, without allowance for residual values on
buildings and equipment; and
(i) The period of analysis is 30 years.
Using the assumptions given above, the best estimate for the ERR is 23%, and
for the NPV (at the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12%) Rs 484 M.
Sensitivity tests indicate that the project is remarkably insensitive to all
important parameters and would therefore remain viable under a variety of
adverse circumstances (Table 8.1).
1/   Rs 12 per day during peak periods of agricultural activity corresponding
to land preparation, sowing and harvesting of the maha paddy crop (20%
of project labor requirement); Rs 10 per day (luring medium peak periods
corresponding to land preparation, sowing and harvesting of the yala
crop (20% of project labor requirement); and Rs 6 per day at all other
times (60% of project labor requirement. Based on these assumptions,
an average shadow wage rate of Rs 8/day (or 66% of the market rate) was
obtained.



- 49 -
Table 8.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Test Cases                                    ERR (%)   NPV (Rs M)
Base case                                      22.8        483.7
No return from processing component            22.0        448.9
No return from intercropping                   19.3        383.8
No sale of rubber-wood                         21.6        458.2
Farm labor at market rate                      22.4        451.6
20% decrease in rubber yields
or price /a                                 21.5        344.0
20% decrease in rubber yields
and price /a                                20.0        232.4
50% increase in fertilizer prices              20.4        398.4
20% increase in rubber production
costs                                       21.3        425.7
20% increase in all overheads                  22.3        473.7
20% increase in all costs                      20.8        415.7
1 year lag in rubber production                21.4        398.1
2 year lag in rubber production                20.4        321.5
/a   Switching Value for Rubber Yield at OCC (12%) is 69% below
that projected or 420 kg/ha at full maturity instead of
1,350 kg/ha. Rubber Price switching value is Rs 5.9/kg
compared to the base estimate of Rs 18.9/kg.
Project Risks
8.07      The project faces no major risk.  The economic rate of return is
relatively insensitive to variations in the key parameters such as rubber
yields, prices and production costs. The techniques and inputs for replanting
and maintenance are all proven. It is possible that the rate of uptake of the
GPCs may be less than projected in the project. However, even if no improve-
ments in rubber quality were achieved under the project, the ERR would be
reduced by less than one percentage point (Table 8.1). There is, however, a
risk that the project may over-extend the implementation capacity of the
concerned institutions. Should this occur, replanting targets would not be
met and both benefits and costs would be less than projected. The project
would, nonetheless, remain viable under such circumstances. The problem of
constrained implementation capacity has been directly addressed in designing
the project. Firstly, it has been accepted that some 30% of the over-aged
rubber now awaiting replanting would have to be excluded from this first
project. Secondly, the annual replanting targets build up slowly giving time
for the institutions to recruit staff and to implement the new procedures.
Thirdly, the institutions themselves would be strengthened under the project
and their activities would be coordinated and monitored by PCU. Finally, some
70% of project disbursements are directly tied to actual replanting achieve-
ments, providing a strong incentive for GOSL to ensure that implementation
capacity does not become a constraint.



- 50 -
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During regotiations, the following principal assurances were obtained
from GOSL:
(a)  (i)  GOSL would establish a legal basis for the operation
of GPCs satisfactory to IDA not later than March 31,
1981; and
(ii) no new GPCs would be established in the project area
until the potential members pledged to collectively
supply not less than 100 kg of latex per day of opera-
tion (para 3.27);
(b)  GOSL would (i) provide the Replanting Fund with the resources
necessary to finance deficits involved in implementing the
project and sustaining the replanting program at the optimum
rate of about 8,100 hectares per year; and (ii) annually
review the financing requirements of the Fund to carry out
the project and thereafter to continue the replanting scheme,
and submtit to IDA the results of that review (para 4.05);
(c)  GOSL would ensure that the additional accounting staff re-
quired by ASD and DRC would be appointed and posted not later
than January 1, 1981 (para 4.08);
(d)  ASD would be established as a separate department and fully
staffed not later than January 1, 1981 (para 5.11);
(e)  an adequately staffed Rubber Policy and Planning Unit would
be established within MPI not later than January 1, 1981
with terms of reference satisfactory to GOSL and to IDA
which would include inter alia responsibility for advising
the RPRC on levels of industry cesses, duties and replanting
payments (para 5.25); and
(f)  a Rubber Policy Review Committee would be established within
MPI whose powers and composition would be mutually acceptable
to GOSL and IDA, not later than January 1, 1981 (para 5.27).
9.02      During negotiations, the following major agreements were obtained
from GOSL:
(a)  MPI would periodically review travel allowances in relation
to operating costs and would undertake to ensure that project
vehicles are fully utilized (para 3.17);
(b)  staff receiving post-graduate training under the project
would remain with their current employer for at least the
period of the bond as stipulated under the present govern-
ment rules (para 3.31);



- 51 -
(c) the position of Project Coordinator would at all times be
filled by a person whose qualifications and experience were
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.10);
(d) GOSL would consult with IDA concerning any proposed changes
to its procedures for the administration of the replanting
scheme (para 5.20);
9.03      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of US$16.0 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be the Govern-
ment of Sri Lanka.



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
SRI LANKA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Aspects and Project Monitoring
A.  Replanting Procedures
Replanting Operations and Costs
1.        The replanting operations have been described in Chapter VI and
their estimated costs together with further detailed are presented in Table 1.
2.        Planting Materials have been described in Chapter VI (para 6.04).
The project would use brown budded stumps initially although it is suggested
that green budding should be further investigated by RRISL since it offers
considerable time savings. 1/ The use of green budding by smallholders should
also receive consideration from RRISL. To produce brown budded stumps, fresh
seed would be collected in July/August, germinated and planted in seedling
nurseries. Budwood nurseries would be cut back in November/December of the
same year and budding carried out 14 to 16 months later. The stumps would be
pulled in May about: twelve months after budding, trimmed, labeled and packed
for dispatch. The budded stamps would be packed in bundles of 25 for transport
to the replanting areas. 2/
3.        Fertilizer use has been described in Chapter VI (para 6.09).  GOSL
is currently considering the use of urea-based fertilizers for smallholders
rather than those based on sulfate of ammonia. In view of the poor handling
characteristic of urea, it is recommended that urea-based fertilizer be care-
fully evaluated in a small but practical field trial involving smallholders,
before introduction of such fertilizers nationwide.
4.        Exploitation Practices have been briefly mentioned in Chapter VI
(para 6.11). Table 1 provides further details. Tapping would commence in a
replanted stand when 50% of the trees reach a girth of 50 cm at 90 cm above
the union. ASD officers would provide stencils anc, demonstrate the marking of
panels; instruction would also be given in tapping, bark conservation and pro-
cessing. The system recommended would be s/2 d/2, 3/ but owners of very small
1/   Green budding may be carried out with 5-6 mont:h old seedlings which could
be delivered to smallholders one month after budding.
2/   Per hectare distribution would be 494 plants; 445 for field establishment
and the balance planted in trenches for later infilling of vacancies.
3/   Tapping systems are by convention indicated by the symbols s/2 (for
half spiral cut) and d/2 for alternate daily tapping.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
areas would probably still tap daily. Other owners would usually tap s/2 d/2,
but after long periods of rainy weather, would recover crop by daily tapping.
ASD officers would stress the need to avoid a prolonged period of daily tapping.
Tapping would be stopped for a month during wintering (February). Some trees
are expected to reach opening standards in the seventh year and tapping would
commence in April of that year with the balance brought into production in the
eighth year. Annex 1, Table 1 indicates the operations, inputs and costs from
the seventh year over the normal s/2 d/2 tapping on virgin and first renewed
bark to the 24th year.
5.        Stimulation would only be employed in the six final years of exploit-
ation. Yield stimulation during the seventh to 24th years would not be
practised: the necessity for large nutrient inputs would not be understood
by smallholders and under-fertilization would reduce the productive life.
In addition, since smallholders commonly use family labor with few alterna-
tive employment opportunities, the increased labor productivity resulting from
stimulation and reduced tapping frequency has no particular appeal. Under
the project, stimulant would be applied three times per year in the 25th and
26th years, and the tapping system would be amended to 2 s/2 d/3 (25th year)
and 2 s/2 d/2 (26th year). In the 27th and 28th years, stimulant would be
applied four times per year on a 2 s/2 d/2 system. The 2 s/2 cuts would be on
opposite sides of the tree, separated by about 30 cm to avoid any girdling
effect. Stimulant would be applied four times a year for the final two years
with a 4 s/2 d/2 system, opening two upward cuts above the existing downward
cuts. The use of stimulant for final exploitation would require controlled
tapping (not what is locally termed "slaughter tapping") to obtain worthwhile
results. ASD officers would offer courses and advice on the methods to be
employed in specific cases. It would be advisable if RRISL were to reinvest-
igate such controlled final exploitation and also the possibility of use of
virgin bark with stimulant above the existing 90 cm tapping panels. With the
use of a stool (ladders being impractical on steep terrain), it is possible
that high yields would be obtained.
Yields
6.        The yield projections for replanted rubber under the project are
shown in Table 2. A separate projection has been given for rubber grown with
intercrop which is assumed to yield slightly less during the first nine years
resulting in an average lifetime yield some 2% below that of rubber grown
without an intercrop. Stimulation is assumed to start in the nineteenth year
of tapping and to be continued for six years although some smallholders may
have insufficient bark reserves for a full 24 year period of exploitation.
The projected yields are modest and are based on the performance of PB 86.
Since it is likely that clones with higher yields than PB 86 would be planted
within the project period, the projections understate the likely incremental
rubber production.
Inspection Procedures and Replanting Payments
7.        Under the project, the procedures for replanting would be modified
and an Advisory Leaflet describing the new procedures would be issued to small-
holders. The Advisory leaflet would incorporate the new schedule of inspec-
tions, and replanting payments as described below.



- 54 -                         ANNEX I
Page 3
8.        The first instalment (Rs 1,000/ha) would be paid when clearing and
uprooting had been satisfactorily completed. All trees and other vegetation
must be uprooted and either removed from the holding or burnt. The inspection
to authorize this payment would be conducted between February and April.
Lining, holing, and specification of soil conservation works would be completed
during this inspection.
9.        The seccnd instalment (Rs 3,550/ha) would be paid when planting had
been completed and the area securely fenced with all conservation works
constructed and covers established. To be eligible for payment there must be
a full stand of trees (445/ha) with stumps for supplies planted in trenches.
All points must be circle weeded. This payment would normally be authorized
between July and September of the planting year.
10.       The third instalment (Rs 2,500/ha) would be paid following satis-
factory inspection 12 months from planting. The replantings should have been
regularly weeded and fertilized, covers should be well established, intercrops
if planted should conform with requirements (see para 6.12 et seq) and soil
conservation works maintained.
11.       The fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eight instalments would be
paid following achievement of satisfactory growth as measured during annual
inspectons around the planting anniversary. (Replanters may request earlier
inspection and authorization). The growth as measured by girth increment
would be compared with norms to be established for each clone. The table
below shows the norms for PB 86. The minimum stand should be 370/ha.
Instalment          Required girth at 90 cm above union
Number and          Areas above             Area below           Expected Years
Amount (Rs)      2,500 mm rainfall       2,500 mm rainfall       from Planting
4 (2,500)              10 cm                    10 cm                  2
5 (2,500)              16 cm                    14 cm                  3
6 (2,000)              26 cm                    24 cm                  4
7 (1,000)              36 cm                    32 cm                  5
8 (1,000)              50 cm /a                 50 cm /a               6
/a   60% of trees should have achieved this girth before opening.  Replant-
ings in which trees were opened before 60% ac'hiieved 50 cm girth would
not be eligible for the final payment.
Arrangements for Supply of Planting Material
12.       As indicated in Chapter VI, SPC and JEDB estates within the project
area would produce budded stumps for DRC on a contract basis. The 33 estates
currently contracted to supply budded stumps for 1981 plantings are indicated
in Table 3. Based on current nursery areas, these estates would produce
960,000 budded stumps for 1981, some 170,000 or 22% over present estimated
requirements. It is anticipated that any oversuppLy could be used outside
the project area.



- 55 -                        ANNEX I
Page 4
13.       In view of the importance of ensuring adequate supplies of plant-
ing materials, formal contracts for the production of planting material
between DRC and the estates would be established. The contract should include
inter alia:
(a) An estimate of numbers and types of budded stumps required
24 months in advance of delivery.
(b) An agreement on delivery price (ex-estate on trucks) with an
escalation clause based on, perhaps, an index of labor costs.
(c) A statement of required quality standards and the basis for
acceptance rejection.
(d) Acceptance of a system of quality control based on three visits
per year by a Visiting Agent with a report to be submitted to
both Buyer and Seller; the Seller undertaking to implement Visit-
ing Agents' recommendations.
(e) Guaranteed access by the Buyer to the nursery provided notice
is given.
(f) An agreement that delivery shall only be made to the Buyer or
his authorized representative.
(g) Payment within 30 days subject to arbitration of disputes.
(h) Arbitration by representatives of both sides with expert
opinion to be provided by the RRISL.
B. Project Monitoring
14.       Monitoring within ASD would be based on a series of work plans
and systematic work scheduling which would be subject to regular checks for
each level of field staff. Indicative annual workplans would be prepared for
each field officer based on DRC records of registered holdings and replanters
within each range. These plans would cover all ASD functions outlined above
(para 5.11). Each officer would use the annual workplan as the basis for
preparing weekly workplans which would indicate the functions to be performed
and holdings to be visited in the forthcoming week. The weekly plans would be
sent to the supervisor prior to the start of the week together with actual
work achievements for the previous week. These work records for each level of
field staff would be monitored by the immediate supervisors. The supervisor
would visit subordinates weekly to check whether the officer was following the
current work program, and, by visiting holdings already reported to have been
serviced by the officer, to check whether the work had been carried out
adequately. Minor infringements would be dealt with by the supervisor but all
major deviations from the work plan would be reported to the next highest
level within ASD for disciplinary action.



- 56 -                       ANNEXI
Page 5
15.        Monitoring within DRC would comprise both internal and external
systems. The internal system would monitor the processing of DRC's admin-
istrative work in relation to established work norms and processing times.
Each functional unit within DRC would be required to report its work achieve-
ments weekly to the Assistant Controller in charge of each regional office.
DRC would also set indicative annual workplans on the basis of projected
workloads from existing and anticipated replanting activities. These workplans
would specify target dates by which various critical actions were to be
completed. The head office of DRC would monitor the work of the regional
offices on the basis of monthly reports from the Assistant Controllers,
supplemented by regular visits to each regional office. The external monitor-
ing system of DRC would consist of field checks on replanting inspections by
ASD and would include all observations required in the ASD inspection. The
DRC inspectors would be provided with a list of holdings to visit by the
Assistant Controller for each region but would not be informed as to the
outcome of the ASD inspection. Any discrepancy between the recommendation of
ASD staff and those of DRC inspectors would be reported to the Rubber Con-
troller who in turn would take the matter up with the Director of ASD.
16.        PCU would monitor overall project implementation.  Together with
the staff of the implementing agencies, the PCU would prepare annual workplans
against which project implementation would be assessed. PCU would assist the
implementing agencies in the preparation of progress reporting formats includ-
ing the selection of appropriate key progress indicators. The implementing
agencies would submit monthly progress reports tc PCU which would provide the
basis for the formal monitoring of implementation.  They would be supplemented
by reports on procurement and disbursement activities which would be prepared
by PCU. Project accounts would also be reviewed by PCU as part of its
formal monitoring role. PCU would monitor implementation informally through
field visits and personal contacts with the implementing agencies to provide
early indications of potential implementation problems which PCU would attempt
to resolve. PCU would bring outstanding problems to the attention of RPRC for
their resolution. PCU would also monitor the adequacy of budgetary allocations
from the Treasury to the implementing agencies.



SRI LANKA
I'
Per Hectare Replanting Costs for Rubber (Labor valued at Rs 17.5 /MD)
Per Hectare Replanting Costs for Rubber Smallholdings
Second Year Upkeep
CALENDAR YEAR OPERATIONS                      Work Days        Material    Labor          Total               1) Weeding (7 months by 12 man days,
Per Hectare      (Rupe)    (Rupees)    (Rupees)                      1 month X 5 man days)                          89                         1557          1557
2) Pests and diseases:
Pre-Planting Year                                                                                                   Materials                                                    65                          65
(1) Felling, rooting, cutting, stacking,                                                                           Labor                                           5                           88            88
burning ( 2 1/2 trees per man day)            140                       2,450         2,450              3)Supplying labor (44 plants to vacancies)            3                           53            53
Total             140              -        2,450        2,450               4) Fertilizer:
960gm of R462 Mg to 445 plants in 4
Planting Year                                                                                                         applications (427kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                       471                         471
(1) Reburning                                       3                           52           52                    Labor for application                          10                          175           175
(2) Rehabilitation of plantforms,                                                                             5) Covers:  Reseeding 10%                                          26                          26
terraces and drains (silt pits)                37                         648           648                            Labor                                   1                           18            18
(3) Lining, including cutting pegs                  5                           88           88                                                      TOTALS    108              562          1891          2453
(4) Holing, 462 holes, 60cm X 60cm X 75cm
(12 holes per man day)                         37                         648           648
(5) Filling holes (45 holes/man day)               10                          175          175              Third Year Upkeep
(6) Fencing material                                            1,390                     1,390               1) Weeding (7 months X 8 man days,
Labor for erection                             15                         263           263                    1 month X 4 man days) including
(7) Covers:  Seed, 12kg, Rs 22/kg                                 264                       264                    pruning                                        60                         1050          1050
Rock phosphate, 50kg, Rs 0.69                        35                        35              2) Pests and diseases:
Labor, drilling seed and                                                                             Materials                                                     65                          65
fertilizer                         10                         175           175                    Labor                                           5                          88            88
(8) Weeding inter-rows and covers.  One                                                                       3) Fertilizer:
round at 20 man days, one at 15 man                                                                            1.44kg of R462 Mg to 432 plants in
days, eight at 12 man days                    131                       2,293         2,293                       2 applications (622kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                     686                         686
(9) Planting (including supplies)                                                                                  Labor for application                          10                          175           175
Purchase of 494 budded stumps at                                                                       4) Soil Conservation, terraces and drains             5                           88            88
Rs 2.50                                                  1,235                     1,235               5) Fencing repair                                     3                          53            53
Transport to holding at Rs 0.2                               99                        99TOTALS                                                             83           751          1452          2205
Planting (30 stumps/man day)                 17                         298           298                                                      T
(10) Fertilizer:
120gms rock phosphate/plant                                                                            Fourth Year Upkeep
(60kg at Rs 0.69/plant)                                   41                        41               1) Weeding (7 months X 6 man days
120gms R462 Mg/plant including                                                                               1      monthsXX2 man days)
supplies (60kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                            66                         66                    1  month X 2 man days) including
480gm R462 Mg to field stand of 445                                                                    2) Pesrs and diseases:
plants in 4 applications                                                                                                                                                35ad s
(214kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                                   236                       236                    Materials                                                     35                          35
240 gm application of crushed dolomite                                                                 3)           4e70izr
to field stand (107kg at Es 0.18/kg)199                                                              3) Fertilizer:
to fiel  stand(107kg  t Rs 018/kg)19                                  19                    1.44kg of R462 Mg to 420 plants in
Labor for application                        12                         210           210                    14k   fR6   gt   2   lnsi
(11) Pests and diseases:                                                                                               2 applications (605kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                     667                         667
Materials                                                   50                         50                    Labor for application                          10                         175           175
3s4) Soil Conservation, maintaining terraces
Labor for application                         3                          52            52                    and drains                                      5                           88           88
TOTALS       280          3,435        7,352         8,337                                                       TOTALS      63            702          1103          1805
1/ See Annex 4, Table 10.
-s H4



Fifth Ylear UFkcg-p
Fifth Yeear ( kmonchs X 6 man days,                                                                               Eighth Year (12 Months Taping)
1 month X 2 man days)                       44                         770           770                   1) Weeding (6 months X 2 man days)                  12                         210           210
2) Pests and diseases: Materials                                35                          35                    2) Pests and diseases: Materials                                 35                           35
Labor                      4                         70            70                                             Labor                      4                          70            70
3) Fertilizer:                                                                                                    3) Fertilizer:
1.44kg of R462 Mg to 415 plants in 2                                                                               1.44kg of R462 Mg to 408 plants in 2
applications (598kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                   660                         660                              applications (588kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                   649                         649
Labor for application                          9                        158           158                          Labor for application                         9                         158           158
4) Soil conservation, maintaining terraces                                                                        4) Tree girth census and marking for opeining  1                                18            18
and drains                                     3                         53            53                   5) Tracing tapping panels on 200 trees               2                          35            35
TOTALS      60          695           1051         1746                    6) Clearing tappers paths                            2                          35            35
7) Tapping equipment (as year seven)                            190                         190
8) Tapping and processing labor for s/2 d/2;
Sixth Yea  U k                                                                                                           2 tasks, 180 tappings each at 5 1/2
Weedn          months X 4 man days,                                                                                     hrs./task                                   248                         4340         4340
1 month X 2 man days)                       30                         525           525                      Processing 620kg rubber                          19                         333           333
2) Pests and diseases: Materials                                35                          35                    9) Soil conservation. Upkeep of terraces
Labor                      4                         70            70                          and drains                                    2                          35            35
3) Fertilizer:                                                                                                                                           TOTALS    299            874           5234         6108
1.44kg of R462 Mg to 408 plants in 2
applications (588kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                  644                         644
Labor for application                         9                        158           158                   Ninth to Twenty-Fourth Years
4) Soil conservation, maintaining                                                                                 1) Weeding (6 months X 2 man days)                  12                         210          210
terraces and drains                          3                          53            53                   2) Pests and diseases: Materials                                  35                          35
TOTALS      46          679            806         1485                                             Labor                       4                          70            70
3) Fertilizer:
1.44kg of R462 Mg to average 312
Seventh Year (9 months Tap .im)                                                                                             plants in 2 applications
1) Weeding (8 months X 2 man days)                 16                         280          280                              (450kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                                496                         496
2) Pests and diseases: Materials                                35                          35                          Labor for application                          7                         123          123
Labor                      4                         70            70                   4) Clearing tappers paths and removing
3) Fertilizer:                                                                                                          dead trees                                     2                          35            35
1.44kg of R462 Mg to 408 plants in 2                                                                        5) Tapping equipment (every 4th year),
applications (588kg at Rs 1.103/kg)                   649                         649                          average cost                                               50                           50
Labor for application                          9                        158           158                   6) Tapping and processing labor: 1 1/2 tasks
/5 Tree gftth cene'iF ond  -srkl-n, fr- n-e,I       2                          35           35                          180 tappings each at 5 1/2 hrs./task   214                             3745          3745
5) Tracing tapping panels on 204 trees              4                          70           70                       Frocessing average 1l0kK -ubLei                 2.                          43e          A25
6) Cleaning tappers paths                           2                          35           35                    7) Soil conservation. Upkeep of terraces
7) Tapping equipment: Spouts                                    40                          40                          and drains                                    1                           18           18
Hangers                                 40                          40                                             TOTAL AVERAGE YEAR    265             581           4639          5220
Half shells                             20                          20                                                 TOTAL 16 YEARS   4240            9246         74,224       83,520
Buckets (2)                             50                          50
Knives (1)                              40                          40
8) Tapping and processing labor at one 200
tree task (Tapping 2 1/2 hrs., drip-
ping 1 hr., collection 1 1/2 hrs.,
transport 1/2 hr., total 5 1/2 hrs. day)
for 135 tapping days s/2 d/2                93                        1628         1628
Processing 240kg rubber                         17                        298           298
TOTALS    147           874           2574         3448



Twenty-Fifth Year
1) Weeding (6 months X 2 man days)                12                       210            210
2) Pests and diseases: Materials                                35                         35                   Twenty-Ninth and Thirtieth Years
Labor                     4                        70             70                   1) Stimulant: Materials ta4U trees X 4
3) Clearing tappers paths and removing                                                                               applications at Rs 0.50)                                  480                        480
dead trees                                    2                        35            35                       Application labor (100 trees/man day)           10                        175           175
4) Stimulant: Materials: ethylene releasing                                                                     2) Tapping and processing labor for 4 s/2 d/2,
(300 trees X 3 applications at Rs 0.50)                 450                        450                         1 1/2 tasks at 80 trees a task,
Application labor (100 trees/man day)           9                       158            158                        6 1/2 hrs.                                   439                       7683          7683
5) Tapping and processing labor for 2 s/2 d/3,                                                                     Processing 870kg rubber                         21                         368          368
one task of 133 trees (Tapping 3 hrs.,                                                                                                           TOTAL      470           480          8226          8706
dripping 1 1/2 hrs, collection 1 1/2 hrs,                                                                                               TOTAL 2 YEARS       940           960        16,452       17,412
transport 1/2 hr, total 6 1/2 hrs)         293                       5127          5127
Processing 1225kg rubber                       26                       455            455
TOTAL     346            485        6055          6540                   Notes to Table
1.  All wages at Rs 17.50 per man day.
Twenty-Sixth Year
1) Weeding (6 months X 2 man days)                12                       210            210                   2.  Since replanting is assumed, no underbrushing is included.
2) Pests and diseases: Materials                                35                         35
Labor                     4                        70             70                   3.  Pruning of stock shoots is included in the earlier weeding rounds.
3) Clearing tappers paths and removing
dead trees                                   2                        35            35                    4.  R462 Mg is a 9:5:3:1 mixture.
4) Stimulant: Materials (290 trees X 3 appli-
cations at Rs 0.50)                                      435                       435                   5.  Fertilizer costs including delivery charges at subsidized prices are:
Application labor (100 trees/man day)           9                       158            158                          Rock phosphate Rs 690/metric ton
5) Tapping and processing labor for 2 s/2 d/2,                                                                          Crushed dolomite Rs 180/metric ton
1 1/3 tasks of 120 trees, 6 1/2 hrs.   390                          6825          6825                           R462 Mg  Rs 1103/metric ton
Processing 1070kg rubber                       23                       403            403
TOTAL      440           470        6601          8171                    6.  Task size is a mission estimate of 200 trees per tapper for s/2 d/2 tapping, 120 trees
for 2 s/2 d/3 tapping, 100 trees for 2 sf2 d/2 tapping and 80 trees for 4 s/2 d/2
tapping. The latter assumes two upward cuts. Labor productivity is based on
Twenty-Seventh and Twenty Ei hth Years                                                                                  reported task sizes and is 20 to 35X below that of other rubber producing countries.
1) Weeding (t montls A   mang7                    12                       210            210                           The major factors appear to be the steep topography over much of the area, un-
2) Pests and diseases                              2            35                         35                           warranted care in making shallow tapping cuts, and lack of routine in tapping/
3) Removing dead trees                             2                        35             35                           collection procedures.
4) Stimulant: Materials (260 trees X 4 appli-
cations at Rs 0.50)                                      520                       520                   7.  Stimulant costs are an estimate of the cost of purchase of the proprietary stimulant
Application labor (100 trees/man day)          11                       193            193                          "Ethrel" and consequent dilution.  Prices may fall.
5) Tapping and processing labor for 2 s/2 d/2,
one task of 120 trees, 6 1/2 hrs.         293                       5128          5128                   8.  Application costs for stimulant can very according to the method employed.
Processing 955kg rubber                        22                       385            385
Processing 955kg rubber                        22                       385            385___________________________________________________  9.  It is unlikely that sufficient bark will remain for the 29th and 30th years explof-
TOTAL      342           555        5951          6506                           tation in many smallholdings.  Commitment of final exploitation would depend on
TOTAL 2 YEARS      684           1120     11,902         13,012                           advice from the local extension   officer.
10. The large labor Inputs for final exploitation may deter some smallholders.
11. Processing labor costs were computed at a standard rate for diluting, coagulating and
smoking and a variable rate, depending on crop, for rolling.
December 17, 1979.                                                                             > D
m  '  '



- 60 -
SRI LANKA                                ANNEX 1
Table 2
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Yield Profiles and Tapping Systems,
Smallholder Budded Rubber
YEAR FROM            TAPPING          EXPLOITATION   FREQUENCY OF           YIELD IN KG./HECTARE
PLANTING                YEAR            SYSTEM         STIMULATION    W/ COVER CROPS  W/INTER
CROPS
1.
2
3
4
5-
6
7                       1. (9 mos.)     sf2 d/2                            300             240
8                       2                   II-675                                          620
9                       3                  it-840                                          785
10                      4                   if-955                                          900
11                      5                  It.-                           1070            1010
12                      6                                  -              1180            1025
13                      7                                  -              1235            1235
14                      8                                                 1290            1235
15                      9                                                 1350            1290
16                    10                                                  1350            1350
17                    11                                   -              1350            1350
18                    12                                   -              1350            1350
19                     13                                 2- 190                          1290
20                    14                                  2- 35                           1235
21                    15                   "               -              i180            1180
22                    16                   "-                             1.125           1125
23                     17                                  -              1070            1070
24                    18                                   -              1010            1010
25                    19              2 s/2 d/3            3              1225            1225
26                    20              2 s"2 d/2            3              1070            1070
27                    21                                   4             1070             1070
28                    22                                   4               900             900
29                    23              4 s/2 d/2            4               955.            955
30                    24                                   4               785             785
December 17, 1979.



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Intercropped Bananas: Inputs and Yields
(Per Hectare)
LABOR
OPERATION                               MAN DAYS    MATERIAL       Rs 12/        YIELD
MAN DAY    (BUNCHES)
YEAR 1
1) Holing (including lining)                    15                        180
2) Planting Material (Rs 1/point)                -          296             -
3) Transport (estimated)                         -          150             -
4) Planting                                     12            -           144
5) Weeding (2 rounds/annum)                     18            -           216
6) Fertilizer (1 kg/clump/annum)                 -          370             -
(296 kg at Rs 1.25/kg
7) Fertilizer application (1)                     7           -            84
8) Harvesting                                     6           -             72
9) Tools                                         -          100             -
TOTALS          58          916           696         150
YEAR 2
1) Weeding (2 rounds/annum)                     20           -            240
2) Fertilizer (2 kg/clump/annum)                 -          740             -
(592 kg at Rs 1.25/kg)
3) Fertilizer application                       14           -            168
4) Supply vacancies                               2          _             24
5) Removing suckers                              4           -             48
6) Transport                                     -          300             -
7) Harvesting                                   12            -           144
TOTALS          52         1040           624          290
YEAR 3
As for Year 2 except:
1) No supply                                    -2           -            -24
2) Extra harvesting                              6           -              72
3) Extra transport                               -          50              -
TOTALS          56        1090            672          290
YEAR
As fo  Year 3 except:
1) Re uction in transport                        -         -50              -
2) El mination of plants                         9           -             108     -
TOTALS          65        1040            780         250
i                                                         I



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Estates Producing Planting MaterialE for 1981
DISTRICT      RESPONSI'3E   ESTATE ]NA1E              LOCATION              Nl?MERS OF
AUTrHORIT`                                                   BUDDED STUMPS
Kalutara      SPC            Sorana S. P'.            Horana               50,000
Perth S. P.                  "                40,000
Mirishena S.P.           Mahagoma             20,000
Frocester S. P.          Govinna             40,000
Halwatura S. P.          Ingiriya             40,000
Yatadola S. P.           Matugama             40,000
St. George S. P.            "                40,000
Eladuwa S. P.            Paiyagala            40,000
Miriswatte S. P.         Walipenne            40,000
Pimbura S. P.            A,alawatte           40,000
Hillstrean S. P.         Bilathsinhala        10,000
SUBTOTAL      400,000
Ratnapura    SPC             Mahawela S. P.           Ritnapura            45,000
Pussella S. P.           Parakadewa           45,000
Peenekande S. P.         Uda-Karawita         30,000
Durampitiya S. P.        Gatehat'he           45,000
Galatura S. P.           Ktriella             45,000
Matuw.agala S. P.             "               30,000
SUBTOTAL      240,000
Klegalle      JEDB           Udapolla Estate          Doraniyagala         20,000
Panawatte Estate         Yatiyantota          20,000
Avissawella Estate       Pilwakpitiya         20,000
Moralioya Estate         Riiwanwella          20,000
Sunnycroft Estate       Waharaka             20,000
Clunes Estate            Dehiowita            20,000
Atale Estate             AI:ale via Kegalle  20,000
Kiripiruwa Estate        Yontiyantota         20,000
Pallegama Estate         MRyandurapola        20,000
Ederapolla Estate        Biilathkohupitiya   20,000
Urumiwella Estate                "            20,000
Halgolla Estate          Yctiyartota          20,000
Parambe Estate           UTdugoda             20,000
Ambadeniva Estate        Aionayake            20,000
'Hatbawe Estate          R mbukkama           20,000
Etana Estate             Wcrikarola           20,000
SUBTOTAL    320,000 1/
TOTAL    960,0C0 2/
1/ *Estate and subtotal figures liable to revision.
2/ 1620 hectares are die for replanL.ing in 1981, at 494/1-ectarc (including s Lpi,li.s)
which requires some F00,000 units; there wotuld arpeur to be a potential oc-r s;pply
of lf0,000 unlits (3 '4 hi. or 20. at a possible ccst of Ks 400,000). Althougl this
MAight he taken up b  'ncreased azpplications or b1  e thclc  sales, it points tc thlt
requlrernct for foril l arrangements in the 1980 cc der.



- 63 -                         ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Replanting Scheme Administration
1.        Background.  The Department of Rubber Control (DRC) plans to improve
its procedures for the administration of a rubber replanting scheme. The major
objectives of the intended improvements would be:
(a) to make the scheme more attractive to smallholders by reducing
to a minimum the various actions required of the smallholder in
applying for, and being provided with, replanting assistance;
(b) to simplify procedures for the granting of replanting permits
and supply of replanting inputs to minimize delays and staff
costs and to maximize cost effectiveness;
(c) to ensure that the administration of the scheme can be easily
and continually monitored to give early warning of problems
and to simplify audit procedures; and
(d) to incorporate a simple system of data retrieval to permit
current information on the status of individual replanters
to be promptly provided to field staff responsible for
advice to replanters.
2.        DRC officers would study the operations of replanting schemes in
Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, to provide information on alternative proce-
dures. A consultant would be required to work with DRC staff for about six
months to develop and implement the new procedures. Some of the major
features of the anticipated changes in DRC procedures are:
(a) information on registration of rubber holdings would be
revised to reflect the present situation and thereafter
regularly updated. Registration details would thus permit
early identification of smallholders whose rubber is due
for replanting;
(b) replanting targets would be set by a Rubber Policy and
Planning Unit based inter alia, on age statistics pro-
vided by DRC from its registration of holdings;



-64 -                         ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
(c)  processing of all paperwork associated with registration
and replanting would be hastened by (a) use of simplified
forms and procedures; (b) increased staff in regional
offices, and (c) introduction of a monitoring system which
would facilitate daily checks on progre!ss and comparison
with established norms;
(d) responsibility for checking and authorization of routine
work would be delegated to staff at lower levels to avoid
delays; and
(e) DRC would identify holdings due for inspection well in
advance and would pass this informatior. to ASD.
3.        The recesntly completed Rubber Masterplarn for Sri Lanka contains
considerable information on the existing procedures used by DRC and makes
recommendations for an improved system. The consultant and DRC would ensure
that due attention is given to these proposals in developing any new scheme.
4.        Qualifications.  The consultant would have at least ten years experi-
ence with a rubber smallholder replanting program and be familiar with the
details of replanting programs in Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia. Although
there are no specific discipline requirements, the consultant would be required
to have competence in accountancy, bookkeeping, auditing, monitoring and data
processing including design of forms, vouchers, etc. Familiarity with elec-
tronic data processing would be required although no decision has yet been
taken to base the improved procedures on the use of a computer.
5.        Specific Responsibilities.  The consultant would be required to:
(a)  provide detailed descriptions (including copies in english
of forms/vouchers) of the replanting schemes in Thailand,
Malaysia and Indonesia;
(b)  review and comment on the adequacy of the existing proce-
dures followed by DRC;
(c) review with DRC staff the proposals for revised procedures
recommended in the Rubber Masterplan anc. establish what
assistance is to be provided in this fie!ld from the UK
Government. (It would be important to ensure that there
was close coordination between inputs under this consul-
tancy to DRC and any other consultancy cealing with
related aspects);
(d) propose a revised set of administrative procedures together
with supporting documentation (forms, vouchers, records,
etc.); and
(e) assist :DRC in the implementation of the revised procedures
for administration of the replanting scheme.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 1
Draft Terms of Reference
Training
1.        Background.  The Advisory Services Department (ASD) has undertaken
new responsibilities in the provision of assistance to smallholders to increase
replanting rates. In order to carry out this task, its staff would be increased
by recruitment of some 154 new officers. All existing and new staff would
require some training which is to be provided under the project. ASD has
begun work on a residential training center and it is expected that the first
training courses would commence about mid 1980. The specific courses envisaged
under the project include:
(a)  an annual three month induction course for 15 new Rubber
Extension Officers which would prepare high school
graduates for extension work by providing the rudiments
of rubber husbandry and replanting technology in addi-
tion to training in extension methodology;
(b)  refresher courses for ASD staff; two courses per year,
two week duration with 30 participants per course.
Course to cover changes in the replanting scheme proce-
dures, recent advances in rubber husbandry, and extension
methodology;
(c)  induction courses for Extension Overseers; two courses per
year, two month duration with 30 trainees per course.
Similar to induction course for REOs but simplified and
condensed and with more emphasis on replanting activities
including contour lining;
(d)  an induction course of one month duration for a new cadre
of ASD staff (Processing Advisor) for 15 trainees. This
course and the course described below (e) would be prepared
by the consultant on processing; and
(e)  twice yearly courses of one week duration on processing
for private processors and smallholders.
2.        Qualifications.  The consultant would be qualified as a lecturer
with specific experience in the preparation of curricula and course material
for training of extension staff. The consultant would have had field experi-
ence in an extension service for rubber smallholders.
3.        Specific Responsibilities.  In conjunction with the staff of ASD
and RRISL, the consultant would:
(a)  prepare detailed curricula and outline lecture notes for
the induction courses for REOs and EOs, and for the
refresher courses;



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 2
(b) assist in the preparation of course material for the
courses;
(c)  assist in the presentation of the first course for REOs;
(d) prepare detailed proposals for the publicity campaign to
be launched under the project; and
(e)  provide necessary specific training to the publicity and
training officers within ASD.



- 67 -                         ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 1
Draft Terms of Reference
Processing
1.        Background.  The Advisory Services Department (ASD), plans to create
a Processing Advisory Division (PAD) to provide private processors and Group
Processing Centers (GPCs) with advice on rubber processing. The new division
would take over and expand the advisory activities directed towards processors.
The total staff strength of PAD is expected to be about 12 all of whom would
be located in the field. Each processing advisor would closely monitor the
operation of about 8 GPCs providing technical, managerial and financial advice
where required. In addition, PAD staff would contact private processors to
provide advice on processing technology with the objective of raising the
quality of rubber output. ASD seeks the services of a qualified consultant
for a period of about three months to assist in the development of PAD. The
project activities directed towards improvement in smallholder processing are
described in the Staff Appraisal Report (para 3.21-3.28). Additional suggestions
for processing improvements are given below:
(a) Smallholders would be encouraged to use a 50/60 double mesh
monel sieve to remove impurities from latex rather than the
commonly used pad of grass. Subject to a field evaluation of
its practicality, estimation of drc at GPCs or latex collec-
tion centers (LCC) would be improved by use of the 'chee'
system.  If the 'chee' system did not prove practicable, the
Metrolac would continue to be used but with greater care
taken in making readings.
(b) The milling of the coagulum would be improved to produce
thinner sheets by adjustment to rollers and by minimizing
the handling of coagulum prior to rolling. Sheets would be
washed and allowed to drip from racks to remove serum and to
minimize uneven enzyme discoloration.
(c) Improvements would be made in the drying process. Wet sheets
would be loaded onto the lowest racks of the smokehouse (the
coolest part), to avoid the formation of a skin which hinders
subsequent drying. Hangers would be rotated after 24 hours
to avoid hanger marks and the formation of bubbles. Rather
than the present technique of excessive stoking at long
intervals, the fire would be stoked about every three hours
and the furnace doors would be fitted with adjustable air
inlets. When dry, the rubber would be stored off the ground
prior to sale to prevent sweating and consequent mould
growth.
(d) The improvements in processing techniques outlined above
would be promoted by PAD staff for existing GPCs, private
processing centers, latex collection centers, and for home



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 2
processors. In addition, the project would support the
expansion of new GPCs subject to the existing GPCs improving
their performance. The new GPCs would include the following
specific improvements:
-    a tiled bulking tank;
-     ia tiered wooden rack for dripping sheets before
smoking;
-    aE two-chambered smokehouse (each chamber 680 kg
capacity) with flue gas entry system such that
one chamber could be closed when intake is low,
to reduce expenditure and to maintain an even
temperature;
-    the furnace door will be cut to provide for expan-
sion of metal without buckling and will have a row
of air inlets.
-    internal drainage in the smokehouse to remove serum
water.
2.        Qualifications.  The consultant would have had at least five years
experience in the operation of group processing and/or marketing schemes for
rubber smallholders. In addition to having technical competence in all aspects
of Ribbed Smoked Sheet production, the consultant: would have had experience in
the provision of managerial advice to smallholder processing groups. The
consultant would also be familiar with record keeping and accounting proce-
dures appropriate to the operation of GPCs.
3.        Specific Responsibilities.  The consultant would work closely with
ASD and would inter alia:
(a)  assist in the formulation and presentation of a one month
training course for PAD staff;
(b)  assist in the formulation and initial presentation of a one
week course for GPC imembers and privatE: processors;
(c)  assist in the preparation of material for the above two
training courses; and
(d)  assist in the formulation of an appropriate strategy for
improving smallholder processing which may include specific
actions to strengthen and expand the GPCs if appropriate.



- 69 -                         ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
Page 1
Draft Terms of Reference
Project Evaluation
1.        Background.  The Agrarian Research and Training Institute proposes
to evaluate the impact of a project to accelerate replanting of rubber by
smallholders. A replanting scheme has been in operation in Sri Lanka since
1953, but its performance over the past decade has been disappointing with
the result that the national stand of rubber has become over-aged. The project
would directly address the major apparent constraints to smallholder replant-
ing which are low producer prices, inadequate compensation for income foregone
and a cumbersome replanting scheme. However it is likely that there are less
obvious factors which influence the smallholder's decision to replant and
that a better understanding of the smallholder's viewpoint would reveal oppor-
tunities to make the replanting scheme more attractive to smallholders. It
is therefore proposed that the project be evaluated during its implementation
to identify opportunities for improvement. ARTI plans to carry out a baseline
survey covering a representative sample of the 90,000 smallholders in the
project area. This survey would be followed by case studies. Through these
investigations, ARTI would try to:
(a) identify why some smallholders with over-aged rubber fail
to replant;
(b) identify what changes in the replanting scheme are required
to induce such smallholders to replant;
(c) establish how effective the services of ASD, DRC and RRISL
have been in improving production of smallholder rubber; and
(d) identify the changes required in the operation of ASD, DRC
and RRISL to better service smallholders in a cost-effective
manner.
ARTI proposes to recruit a qualified consultant to assist in the evaluation
study for a period of about three months.
2.        Qualifications.  The consultant would have had at least five years
experience in the design and conduct of surveys and case studies of smallholder
producers, preferably rubber producers. He would be a University Graduate with
training on/in survey design and analysis, rural sociology, agricultural
economics and statistics.
3.        Specific Responsibilities.  The consultant would work with ARTI staff
consulting with the Project Coordinator and other staff of the implementing
agencies as necessary. He would:
(a) assist in the design of the baseline survey of project area
smallholders including sample selection and questionnaire
formulation;



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
Page 2
(b)  advise on the supervision of the baseline survey as required;
(c) assist in the design of the case studies including preparation
of specific terms of reference for about: four or five studies
which are likely to provide the requirea. information; and
(d) prepare a suitable format for the report on survey findings and
the case studies.



- 71 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Local Procedures for Project Funding
Project Funding
1.        Government funding for a project is based on a Project Report
prepared by the implementing agency (the PCU for the proposed project). The
Project Report must be approved by the Development Committee of Secretaries
before sanctioning by Cabinet. All implementing agencies keep a separate head
for the project in their annual budget. Initial budget proposals are submitted
to the Treasury by the various departments through the relevant ministry by
May 31st of the preceeding year. Draft budget estimates proposed must be
submitted to the Treasury by June 12 for inclusion in the annual budget, which
in turn is submitted to Parliament for approval in November/ December. 1/
2.        Release of funds to the departments by the Treasury is on a monthly
basis, against the annual budget as sanctioned by Parliament and approved
in detail by the Ministry of Finance. A monthly return of expenditures must
be submitted to the Treasury for comparison with the annual budget and for
release of funds in the succeeding month. Annual estimates of expenditures
must be revised by May 31st in the light of expenditures made during the first
quarter. After sanction of the revised estimates by the Treasury, requisition
of funds are made against these revised estimates.
3.        Annual budgets for the project would be prepared by each implement-
ing agency (DRC, ASD and RRISL) with the assistance of the PCU which would
ascertain that the proposed estimates match those of the Project Report. The
PCU would consolidate the project annual budget and submit it to the Treasury
through the Ministry of Plantation Industries.
4.        Funds for capital and operating expenditures would be released by
the Treasury directly to the respective implementing agencies, while staff
would be paid directly by Treasury. Replanting payments to smallholders
(including fertilizer and planting materials to be delivered in kind) would be
met from the Rubber Replanting Fund administered by DRC. The revenues of the
Fund would initially comprise the Replanting Cess which is paid directly into
the Fund by the Customs Office,- and from end of project year two the shortfall
in cess revenue would be met by annual Government contribution to the Fund.
Accounting Records and Annual Controls
5.        Adequate books of accounts are maintained at the headquarters of DRC
and RRISL. Internal control is adequate within both agencies. The Chief
1/   This procedure does not apply to DRC since it is currently funded by
cesses. However, it would apply under the project if, as envisaged, the
capital and operating costs in administering the Replanting Fund were
now funded by normal budgetary provisions.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Accountant's office of the RRISL is well run and has the capacity to maintain
accounts efficiently; the accounts of the RRISL are subject to regular checking
by the RRISL internal auditor. The Accounting Section of DRC is headed by
a competent Chief Accountant. However, his office is understaffed with the
result that DRC accounts have been systematically late. Disbursements from
the Replanting Fund are subject to a severe, and possibly unnecessarily
thorough, system of checking with multiple layers of control before payments
are made.
6.        The annual accounts of both agencies are subject to an external
audit which is carried out yearly by a team of Public Auditors under the
direction of the Auditor General. The finance Act No. 38 of 1971, requires
that accounts be prepared and submitted for audit by April 30th of the fol-
lowing year, and the audit completed by October 31st. At the time of the
mission's visit (September 1979), the 1978 accounts of RRISL were available
and the mission was advised that their audit was in progress. The 1978
accounts of the DRC were also available but the latest audited accounts were
those of 1976.
Accounting Arrangements for the Project
7.        Under the project, a new accounting unit would be set up within
ASD which would become an independent department. In addition, accounting
sub-units would be established in each of the three DRC regional offices;
this would considerably lessen the workload of the Chief Accountant's office.
Project accounts would be kept under separate heads by DRC, ASD and RRISL
and submitted quarterly to the PCU for purpose of monitoring and preparing
disbursement applications.
Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditures
8.        For the purpose of Credit disbursements against statements of
expenditures, the budgeting, accounting and auditing procedures of DRC and
RRISL are satisfactory, and with the proposed strengthening of their staff,
their institutional capability would be adequate. The Auditor General would
audit the statements of expenditures biannually and GOSL would furnish the
reports to IDA. Supporting documents and vouchers retained by the Auditor
General would be made available for inspection by Supervision missions.
9.        Credit disbursements against statements of expenditures would be
for petty contracts for civil works and equipment (individually less than
Rs 100,000) and for replanting payments. In view of the large volume of
replanting payments, (US$9.8 M), DRC would be required to maintain a sub-
sidiary Project Replanting Fund account relating to the project replantings.
Disbursement under the Credit would be against a statement of expenditure from
this Project Replanting Fund account submitted quarterly. At the end of each
fiscal year, these statements would be reconciled with the annual audited DRC
project accounts. The DRC project accounts would be supported and reconciled
with the annual audited accounts relating to the overall Replanting Fund
Account.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
10.       Records of progress of replanting work would be systematic, and
up to date. Both for management and audit purposes, DRC would be required
to submit Quarterly Progress Reports to the PCU giving, for each year of
permit issue, particulars of:
(a) area approved for replanting;
(b) replanting payments committed; and
(c) installments paid.
11.       ASD would be responsible for the issue of fertilizer and planting
materials to smallholders against permits approved by DRC. Adequate stocks
financed out of the Replanting Fund would be carried by ASD for this purpose.
After being issued to replanters, the materials would be charged to the
Replanting Fund Account, against which IDA disbursements would be made.



SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Project Participants by Size of Holding
I. Representative Farm Models
Holding                 Total               Paddy           Rubber               Replanted        Intercrop
Category            Holding Area                                                  Rubber
--        -  -    -   -   -  -   -   -     ---       ha    -- -  ------------------ ---- - _________________
- Small                    0.4               0.2              0.2                   0.2               0.2
- Medium 1                 0.8               0.4              0.4                   0.4               0.4
- Medium 2                 2.6               0.6              2.0                   1.0               1.0
- Large                   12.0               2.0             10.0                   5.0               1.0
II. Participation in Project
Holding              Number of           Area of               Rubber Area       Replanted Rubber           Intercropping
Category             Holdings           Holdings                                      Area           No. of            Area
No.       %         Ha          %        Ha          x        Ha            %      Holdins       Intercropped
- Small           5,85Q    22          2,340       5        1,170        4       1,170        6       1,897              379
- Medium 1       11,095    42          8,876     20         4,438       14       4,438       24       3,584           1,434
- Medium 2        8,810    33         22,906     51        17,620       55       8,810       47       2,895           2,895
- Large             877      3        10,524     24         8,770       27       4,385       23         291              291
Total      26,632   100         44,646    100        31,998      100     18,803       100      8,667            4,999
Average                         1.7                  1.2                 0.7                                    0.6
January 15, 1980                                                                                                                 a



SRI LANKA                                                                            ANNEX 4,Table 2
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project                                                             Page 1 of 2
Advisory Services Department
Incremental Staffing Costs
(Rs '000)
Present       Unit Cost 2/       Year 1 3/          Year 2             Year 3           Year 4            Year 5           Year 6       Incremental
Incremental Staffing                Number 1/      Rs '000           No.    Cost      No.      Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost       No.    Cost      No.    Cost        Cost
Head Office
Director                         0            35.1            1       17.6       1      35.1       1      35.1       1     35.1       1      35.1       1     35.1        193.1
Personal Asst. to Dir.           0            11.9            1        6.0       1       11.9      1      11.9       1     11.9       1      11.9       1      11.9        65.5
Deputy Director (Field)          0            31.6            1       15.8       1      31.6       1      31.6       1     31.6       1      31.6       1      31.6       173.8
Head (Devt. Div.)                1            27.1            -         -        -        -        -       -         -      -         -       -         -       _           _
Publicity Officer                0            11.9            1        6.0       1       11.9      1      11.9       1     11.9       1      11.9       1      11.9        65.5
Film Operators                   0             7.2            3       10.8       3       21.6      3      21.6       3     21.6       3      21.6       3      21.6       118.8
Graduate Assistants              3             9.9            -         -        -        -        -       -         -      -          -      -         -       -           -
Head (Supplies Division)         0            27.1            . 
Graduate Assistant               1             9.9            -         -        -        -         -      -         -       -         -                -       -
Head (Processing Advisory)       1            27.1             1      13.6       1       27.1      1      27.1       1     27.1        1     27.1       1      27.1       149.1
Graduate Assistant               1             9.9
Deputy Dir. (Training/Admin.)  0              31.6             1      15.8       1       31.6      1      31.6       1     31.6        1     31.6       1      31.6       173.8
Chief Admin. Officer             0            27.1            1       13.6       1       27.1      1      27.1       1     27.1       1      27.1       1      27.1       149.1
Asst. Admin. Officer             1            18.0
Asst. Accountant                 0            18.0             1       9.0       1       18.0      1      18.0       1      18.0       1     18.0       1      18.0        99.0
Chief Clerk                      1            10.1
Clerk                            4             9.8             2       9.8       2       19.6       2     19.6       2      19.6       2     19.6       2      19.6       107.8
Clerk/Typists                    3             8.7            3       13.0       3       26.1      3      26.1       3     26.1       3      26.1       3      26.1       143.5
Stenographer                     1             9.8            1        4.9       1        9.8      1       9.8       1      9.8       1       9.8       1       9.8        53.9
Receptionist                     1             8.7            -         -        -        -        -       -         -       -         -      -         -       -           -
Graduate Assistant               1             9.9            1        5.0       1        9.9      1       9.9       1       9.9      1       9.9       1       9.9        54.5
Head (Training Div.)4/           0            27.1            1       13.6       1       27.1      1      27.1       1     27.1       1      27.1       1      27.1       149.1
Asst. Training Off. 4/           0            11.9             1       6.0       1       11.9      1      11.9       1      11.9      1      11.9       1      11.9        65.5
Graduate Assistant  4/           0             9.9            1        5.0       1        9.9      1       9.9       1      9.9       1       9.9       1       9.9        54.5
Clerk/Typist         4/          0             8.7            2        8.7       2       17.4      2      17.4       2      17.4      2      17.4       2      17.4        95.7
Watcher/Cook         4/          0             5.0             2       5.0       2       10.0      2      10.0       2      10.0      2      10.0       2      10.0        55.0
Drivers                          2             7.0            9       31.5       9       63.0      9      63.0       9     63.0       9      63.0       9      63.0       346.5
Office Peons                     0             5.0            2        5.0       2       10.0      2      10.0       2      10.0      2      10.0       2      10.0        55.0
Sub-Total Head Office    21                             34      215.7      34     430.6      34    430.6        34   430.6      34    430.6       34    430.6       2368.7
1/ Present positions do not correspond exactly with proposed staffing.
2/  Based on midpoint of salary range plus allowances including 15% Provident Fund contribution and travelling allowance.
3/ Year 1 cost for half year only.
4/ Included with head office staff although located at the training center.



SRI LANKA                                                                                         ANNEX 4,Table 2
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Pro ject
Advisory Services Department
Incremental Staffing Costs
(Re '000)
Present       Unit Cost          Year 1            Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Year 5            Year 6          Incremental
Number         Rs '000  5]   No.    Cost         No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.      Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost           Cost
Field Staff
Regional Offices
Regional Advisory Off.              0             26.6           3       39.9       3      79.8       3      79.8        3      79.8        3      79.8       3      79.8        438.9
Senior Processing Adv.              0             23.9           3       35.9       3      71.7       3      71.7       3       71.7        3      71.7       3      71.7        394.4
Clerk/Typists                       0              8.7           6       26.1       6      52.2       6      52.2       6       52.2        6      52.2       6      52.2        287.1
Drivers                             0               7.0         13       45.5      13      91.0      13      91.0      13       91.0       13      91.0      13      91.0         500.5
Office Peons                        0               5.0          3        7.5       3      15.0        3     15.0        3       15.0       3      15.0       3      15.0          82.5
Divisional Office
Div.Rubber Ext.Officers             6              20.5          3       30.8        3     61.5        3     61.5        3       61.5       3      61.5       3      61.5         338.3
Processing Advisor                  0              23.2          9      104.4        9    208.8        9    208.8        9      208.8       9    208.8         9    208.8        1148.4
Clerk/Typist                        0               8.7          9        39.2       9      78.3       9      78.3       9       78.3       9      78.3        9      78.3        430.7
Driver                              0               7.0           9      31.5        9      63.0       9      63.0       9       63.0       9      63.0        9      63.0        346.5
Range Office
Rubber Ext. Officer                41              20.5         13      133.3      13    266.5        13    266.5       13      266.5      13    266.5       13    266.5         1465.8
Ext. Overseer                       0              14.3         54      386.1      54    772.2        54    772.2    108    1544.4    108   1544.4    108   1544.4               6563.7
Sub-Total Field Staff        47                          125      880.2   125    1760.0    125    1760.0    179         2532.2    179    2532.2    179    2532.2          11996.8
Fertili4zer 5t^,re Stnff
Storekeeper                         0              9.0                              6      54.0       6      54.0       6       54.0        6     54.0        6      54.0        270.0
Truck Driver                        0              8.4                             10      84.0      10      84.0      10       84.0      10      84.0       10      84.0        420.0
Cleaner                             0              7.2                             10      72.0      10      72.0      10       72.0      10       72.0      10      72.0        360.0
Watchers                            0               6.0                             9      54.0       9      54.0       9       54.0        9      54.0       9      54.0        270.0
Casual Laborers                     0                                                      20.3              20.3               20.3              20.3               20.3         101.5
Sub-Total Fertilizer Store                                                          284.3             284.3              284.3              284.3             284.3        1421.5
Total Incremental Staffing Cost                                   1095.9           2474.9             2474.9            3247.1            3247.1             3247.1      15787.0
5fSalary costs for field level staff are based on midpoint of salary range but include allowance and costs
of subsistence.  For REOs and EOs costs of operating the officers' vehicle are included.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA                                        Table 3
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Training ComPonent
Rs (000)
Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6    Total           Foreign
Cost                                                        Years 1-6  Exchange
Cost
TRAINING INVESTMENTS
Training Center: Civil Works
Lecture hall        115 sq m
Classroom           100 sq m
Dormitory/study    190 sq m
Washroom             30 sq m
Dining room          95 sq m
Living area          95 sq m
Kitchen              95 sq m
Offices              45 sq m
765 sq m    1.5/sq m       1,033      115                                       1,148         402
Accomodation for Training staff
Renovation existing house           10.0           10                                                   10           4
House                               165           165                                                  165          41
Lecturer quarters                  140             -      140                                          140          35
Subtotal civil works                              1,208      255                                       1,463         482
Training Center:  Equipment
Furniture & Kitchen equipment       -             200      56                                          256         102
Training aids 1/                    -             380     100                                          480         456
Microbus (trainee transport)        150           300     150                                          450         428
Total Investments                                2L088       561                                         6         1,468
Training Operations         2/
Induction course for REO-                          68      68      68       68      68       68        408          41
Refresher courses 3/                               42      42      42       42      42       42        252          25
Induction course for EO4-                        180      180    180      180      180      180      1,080         108
Processing course  ]       6                       -       11      11       11      11       11         55           6
Processing Advisor coursed                         -        23     -        -        -       -          23           2
Study Tours        7/
Preproject (ASD)-,                                120                                                  120         120
Preproject                                        12Q                                                  120         120
Preproject (PCU)-                                  60                                                   60          60
Project (ASD) 8/ & 9/                              84      84      84       84      84       84        504         504
Project (DRC) 8/                                   84      -       -        -        -       -          84          84
Postgraduate Studies
for RRISL staff 10/                                       145    145       145     145      145        725         725
for ASD staff 11 r                                         -      145       -      145       -         290         290
for Planning Unit 12/                                     145      -       145      -        -         290         290
forPlnnigUnit -
Total Operations                                    758      698    675      675      675     530      4,011       2,375
l/ Slide projector, cine projector, epidiascope, screen, portable generator, video camera system, P/A system, films,
and taperecorder.
2/  One course per year, 3 month duration, 15 trainees.  Subsistence, accomodation and training supplies at Rs 50 per
head per day.
3/ For all ASD field staff. Two courses per year, 2 week duration, 30 trainees per course. Rs 50/head/day.
4/  Two courses per year, 2 month duration, 30 trainees per course.  Rs 50/head/day.
5/ Two course per year, 1 week duration, 30 trainees per course. Rs 50/head/day.
6/ One course in year 2, one month duration, 15 trainees per course. Rs 50/head/day.
7/  Two staff from ASD, 2 from DRC, one from PCU.  Six week duration, 2 weeks each in Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand.
Rs 60,000 per tour.
8/ Study tour for 3 RAO's from ASD and 3 Assistant Controllers from DRC year 1 only. Three weeks duration. Country
to be selected Rs 28,000 per tour.
9/ Study tour for one selected DREO and 2 selected REO's per year starting year 2. Three week duration in one country
to be selected. Rs 28,000 per tour.
10/ Twelve month fellowships in soils chemistry, plant pathology, genetics and two subjects to be selected.
Rs 145,000 per fellowship.
11/ Twelve month fellowship in extension methodology. Rs 145,000 per fellowship.
12/  Twelve month fellowship in agricultural economics,development planning,or related field.  Rs 145,000.
January 7, 1980.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA                                       Table 4
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Investments and Other Operating Costs (ASD)-
Rs ('000)
Unit   Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6       Total    Foreign
Cost  No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   Exchange
Cost
Investments: Equipment
Trucks (5 ton capacity)  220   5  1,100   5  1,100                                                     10  2,200   2,090
Mobile Publicity Units   150   3    450   -    -                                                         3    450      428
4 wheel drive vehicles-  105   6    630  10  1,050   3    315                                          19  1,995   1,895
Cars 3/                     90   1      90   2    180   -      -                                         3    270      257
Motorcycles-                15  32    480  12    180  12    180  12    180  12    180  12    180  92  1,380   1,311
Bicycles 5/                  1  54     54   -    -       -     -   54      54   -      -    -      -  108    108        86
-  6/
Office equipment-            -   -    200   -    190                                                   -      390      215
Tree pullers 7/              8  54    432  54    432  54    432                                       162  1,296   1,231
Field equipment-             3  63    189                                                              63    189      170
Subtotal Equipment                    3,625       3,132         927         234         180         180       8,278   7,683
Civil Worksl'
Houses for RAO             165   1    165   2    330                                                    3    495       124
Houses for SPA            ]L55   1    155   1    155   1    155                                         3    465       116
Houses for DREO           150   2    300   4    600   3    450                                          9  1,350       338
Houses for PA             150   2    300   4    600   3    450                                          9  1,350       338
Houses for REO            135  10  1,350  24  3,240  20  2,700                                         54  7,290   1,823
Regional fertilizer
store                   300   1    300   2    600                                                     3    900      225
Subtotal Civil Works                  2,570       5,525       3,755                                          11,850   2,964
Total Investments                     6,195       8,657       4,682         234        3180         180      20,128  10,647
Operating Costs                          6,
Vehicle operations-                   619         998       1,106       1,106       1,106       1,106       6,041   4,832
Office operations                       97        193         193         193         193         193       1,062      -
Building maintenance-O                 -           39         121         1'8         178         178         694     174
Total Operating Costs                    716      1,230       1,420       1,477       1,477       1,477       7,797   5,006
1/  Excludes  items    for training center shown in Annex 4,  Table 3.
2/  Four attached to Head Office including training center, one each for RAO, SPA and DREO.
3/ In car pool for Head Office.
4/  32 for existing or new staff in Year 1, balance of 12 per year as replacements for existing motorbikes.
5/ For Extension Overseers.
/  For Head Office 1 photocopier, 6 calculators, 6 typewriters, filing cabinets and desks; for Regional offices
6 typewriters, 6 filing cabinets and desks; for Divisional offices 9 typewriters, 9 filing cabinets and desks;
for Range offices desks and filing cabinets.
7/  Three tree pullers per range to be kept in the custody of the RE0 and loaned to smallholders for uprooting old
trees.
8/  For each DREO and REO (63) Abney level, measuring tape and protective clothing including motorcycle helmet and
document satchel.
9/  Trucks 10,000 km at Rs 3.5/km 35,000/year; 4 wheel drive vehicles 12,000 km at Rs 3/km 36,000/year; cars 12,000 km
at Rs 2.5/km 30,000/year. Motorcycle operating costs are met by staf.E from travelling allowance. Includes
10   operating cost for training center vehicles Rs 90,000/year.
10/  Maintenance at 1 1/2% of capital cost.
January 7, 1980.



SRI LANKA
S1,allholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Department of Rubber Control
Regional Office8
Capital Expenditures, Staffing and Other Operating Costs
R. (O000)
1980                1981               1982            1983              1984                1985                          Foreign
Unit Coat            Year I    I/        Year 2             Year 3           Year 4           Year 5              Year 6            Total         Exchange
Rs '000         No.       Cost      No.       Cost      No.      Cost    No.    Cost    No.         Cost      No.    Cost          Cost           Cost
(:ptl  xedture                          2/
Office Btuildings (190 sq.m (d Rsl500/sq.m)                285            1        285.0      2       570.0       -        -        -       -        -        _         _       _         855.0           214.0
Vehicles 3/                                                105            1        105.0      2       210.0       -        -                -        -        -         -       -         315.0           300.0
Furniture and Equipment 4/                                240             1        240.0      2       480.0       -                                    _ -  -  -                          720.0           240.0
Total Capital Expenditure                             630.0             1260.0                         -      _                  -         -       -        1890.0            754.0
IncremegtaleStafting Cost
Salaries
Asaistant Rubber Controller                               12.30           1          6.1      1        12.3       2       24.6      4      49.2      6       73.8       8      98.4       264.4            -
Chief Clerk                                                 8.28          3         12.4      3        24.8       3       24.8      3      24.8      3       24.8       3      24.8        136.4           -
Uead of Branch                                             8.16           1          4.1      1         8.2       2       16.3      4      32.6      6       49.0       8      65.3       175.5            -
Accountant                                                 11.58          -          -        -         -         3       34.7      3      34.7      3       34.7       3      34.7       138.8            -
Office Aasistant - Accounting                              10.56          -          -                  -         3       31.6      3      31.6      3       31.6        3     31.6        126.4            -
Accounting Clerk                                            5.25          9         23.6      9        47.2       9       47.3    12       63.0    18        94.5      24    126.0        401.6            -
Registrationi Clerk                                         5.25          3          7.9      3        15.7       3       15.8      3      15.7      3       15.8       3      15.7        86.6            -
Checking Clerk                                              5.25          -          -        -         -         3       15.7      6      31.5      9       47.3       9      47.2        141.7           -
Clerk                                                       5.25         11         28.9    11         57.8      25      131.2    44    231.0                          92    483.0       1278.4            -
Stenographer                                                5.25          3          7.9      3        15.7       3       15.8      3      15.7      3                  3      15.7        86.6
Typist                                                      5.25          3          7.9      3        15,7       3       15.8      6      31.5      6       31.5       6      31.5       133.9            -
Sub-Total Salaries                          34         98.8    34        197.4      59      373.6    91    561.3   126         765.3    162    973.9        2970.3
Allowances (582/ of Salariea plus Rs 55/man-month)                                  68.2              136.4              254.5            384.0             524.0             688.9      2036.0
Overtime (57, of Salary Cost)                                                        8.4               16.7               31.4             47.3              64.5              82.1        250.4
Total Inctreental Staffing Coat                       175.4              350.5              659.5            992.6            1353.8            1724.9       5256.7
Other Operatinlg C6ots
Stationery                                                                          20.0               44.0               68.0            101.0             135.0             173.0       541.0           178.0
Other Office Expenses                                                               23.0               45.0               45.0             45.0              45.0              45.0        248.0           -
Vehicle Runniing Expenses 5/                                                        18.0              108.0              108.0            108.0             108.0             108.0       558.0           446.0
Building Maintentance 6/                                                             -                  4.3               12.8             12.8              12.8              12.8        55.5            -
Total Other Operating Costs                            61.0              201.3              233.8            266.8             300.8             338.8      1402.5           624.0
GRANO) TOIAL                                                                         866.4             1811.8              893.3           1259.4            1654.6            2063.7       8549.2         1378.0
1/ First year costs for six months only.
2/ These regional offices are shared with ASD.
3/ One four-wheel drive vehicle per regiornal office.
4/ For eacb office:  3 typewriters (Rs 18,000), 6 calculators (Rs 12,000), desks, filing cabinets and other office furniture (Rs 210,000).
5/ 4-wheel drive vehicles 12,000 knm at Rs 3/km Rs 36,000/year.
61 Maintenance at 1.5% per year.
hieceslmer 5, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                4



- 80 -                                             ANNEX 4
Table 6
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation ProJect
Costs of Project Coordination Unit
Rs ('000)
Unit    Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Year 6      Total   Foreign
Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost   No. Cost  No. Cost  Exchange
Cost
Investments
4 wheel drive vehicle       105    1   105                                                                   1   105      100
Car                           90    1    90                                                                  1    90       86
Photocopier                   75    -    -       1    75                                                     1    75        68
Typewriters                    6    3    18    2    12                                                       8    30       27
Calculators                    2    4      8    4      8                                                     8    16       14
Office furniture               -    -    26    -    30            10                                         -    66       12
Total Investment                     147          125          10                                             382      307
Incremental Staffing
Project coordinator          26.4   1   26.4   1   26.4   1   26.4   1   26.4   1   26.4   1   26.4              158.4
Accountant (Class II)        15.4   1   15.4   1   15.4   1   15.4   1    L5.4   1   15.4   1   15.4               92.4
Project officer              14.4   1   14.4   1   14.4   1   14.4   1    L4.4   1   14.4   1   14.4               86.4
Senior clerk                  9.8   1    9.8   2   19.6   2   19.6   2   19.6   2   19.6   2   19.6              107.8
Clerk/typist                  3.7   3   26.1   4   34.8   4   34.8   4   34.8   4   34.8   4   34.8               200.1
Driver                        7.0   2   14.0   2   14.0   2   14.0   2   :L4.0   2   14.0   2   14.0               84.0
Peon                          5.0   1    5.0   1    5.0   1    5.0   1    5.0   1    5.0   1    5.0                30.0
Allowances 30%                 -    -   33.3   -   38.9   -   38.9   -   :38.9   -   38.9   -   38.9              227.8
Subtotal Staff Costs            10  144.4  12  168.5  12  168.5  12  1678.5  12  168.5  12  168.5             986.9
Vehicle Operating Expenses                 33          66           66          66          66          66          363      290
Office Operating Expenses                   5          10           10          :'0         10          10           55       -
Total Operating Cost2/                    182         245         244          2i44         24         245 14405             290
1/ Staff engaged for all of Year 1.
2/ Figures rounded. Dioes not include study tour for project coordinator.
December 10, 1979.



-81-                                            ANNEX 4
Table 7
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Prolect
Costs of Processing, Research, Project Evaluation, and Technical Assistance Components
Rs ('000)
Unit     Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6           Total   Foreign
Costs   No. Cost  No. Cost  No. Cost  No. Cost  No. Cost  No. Cost  No. Cost  Exchange
Cost
Processing Component-/ (ASD)
Rehabilitation of existing
GPCs                              6      5    30  15    90  47   282                                     67   402      270
Establishment of new GPCs         50      -    -    -    -   10   500  20 1,000  20 1,000                 50 2,500      925
Total Processing Component                       30         90        782      1,000      1,000                2,902   1,195
Research Component (RRISL)
Cross country vehicles            75      4   300   8   600   4   300                                     16 1,200   1,140
4 wheel drive vehicles           105      2   210                                                          2   210      200
Laboratory air conditioners
(1.5 HP)                         19    15   285                                                          15   285      270
Laboratory dehumidifiers
(0.5 iP)              2/         14     6    84                                                           6    84       80
Photographic equip /ent-                      155                                                              155      147
Ftilm production 3/                           300        500        500        250                           1,550      310
Total Research Component4/                    1,334                               5                            3,484   2,147
Project Evaluation Component
Baseline survey 5/
Staffing and transport costs                 60                                                               60        6
Analysis and reporting                       40                                                               40        4
Case studies 6/                                -          30         30         30         30         30       150       15
Total Evaluation Component7                     I_          __         __         70         30         -22
Technical Assistance Component
Coasultancies for:
Replanting Scheme
Administration CDP.C)          93      4   372   2   136                                                6   558      5^0
Training (ASf)                  93      3   279                                                          3   279      250
Processing (ASD)                93      3   279                                                          3   279      250
Project evaluation (ARTI)       93      3   279                                                          3   279      250
Total Technical Assistance                    L,209        186                                              151
1/  Excludes cost of Processing Advisory Division salaries and operating costs shown in Annex 4,  Tables 2 and  4.
2/  Includes slide cameras, lens, slide copier  enlarger, processing equipment, screens, projector, and 8 mm cameras,
sound recording equipment and projectors.
3/  Includes funds for scripting, directing, shooting, striping and titling two 20 minute films.
4/ Excludes cost of postgraduate fellowships for RRISL staff presented in Annex 4, Table 3.
5/ Two research officers for 6 months, 10 enumerators for 6 months, vehicle operating costs and data processing.
6/ Two research officers for 3 months/years and 4 enumerators for 3 months/years, vehicle operations and data processing.
7! Excludes cost of technical assistance presented below.
December 10, 1979



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8
Page 1
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation P?roject
Group Processing Centers (GPC)
Table 8.1: GPC - Dlirect Processing Cost (i.e. excluding overheads)
Item                                 Consumption            Cost/Price       Cost of Processing
c/kg drc
Chemicals                               0.0067              1t Rs/kg                9.4
kg/kg drc
Fuel (Firewood)                        3.60 cu. yd/         50 Rs/cu. yd           18.0
1,000 kg drc
Transport for 2 units                       -               10 Rs/mile/             1.0
mton/drc
Labor for processing                    0.0275              10 Rs/MD               27.5
and smokehouse                        MD/kg drc
Total              55.9
Table 8.2 Financial Returns to GPC Members from a. Successful GPC
(Rs/kg)
GPC Processing                              Other Smallholder Processing
60% RSS I/             5.82                        20% RSS I                 1.94
30% RSS II             2.75                        30% RSS II                2.73
7% RSS III           0.62                         30% RSS III               2.66
3% RSS IV & V         0.23                        20% RSS IV & V            1.55
Average RSS price    9.40                                                    8.88
less Direct       2/
Processing cost-   0.56                                                    0.45
Less Overheads 3/3/  0.09                                                     -
Less Debt Service-   0.10
Net Price Paid
to Producers        8.65                                                  8.43
Net Premium to GPC Members: Rs 0.22/kg
1/  Based on actual November 1979 prices paid by CPD Depots:  RSS I 9.71;
RSS II 9.10; RSS III 8.88; RSS IV 7.90; RSS V 7.55.
2/ From above Table.
3/  Based on a throughput of 200 kg/day, and 220 days of operation in a year.
Overheads include 1 watchman (Rs 1,200), Village tax and insurance (Rs 275),
and I manager (220 days at Rs 12/day). Debt service to repay a Rs 30,000
loan at 10% over 12 years.
January 7, 1980.



SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Group Processing Centers (GPC)
Table 8.3:   Financial Returns From GPC Processing (RS/kg)
Processing Costs             Total Proces-   Price Paid to    Premium Paid
Throughput      Direct   Overheads   Total          sing Charge   GPC Member          to GPC Member
200 kg/day      0.56        0.09       0.65         0.75              8.65               0.22
150 kg/day      0.56        0.12       0.68         0.81              8.59               0.16
100 kg/day      0.56        0.18       0.74         0.94              8.46               0.03
75 kg/day     0.56         0.25      0.81         1.08               8.32              (0.13)
Table 8.4 :  Economic Returns From One GPC (Rs/kg)
Processing Costs          Incremental      Incremental      Net Incremental   Net Incremental
Throughput      Direct   Overheads   Total   Processing Cost  Benefit*               Benefit           Benefit/GPC/yr        R.O.R       NPV f 12%
(Rs)                            (Rs)
200 kg/day      0.56        0.09      0.65          0.20            1.04                 0.84             39,960              90%        RsI77,100
150 kg/day      0.56        0.12      0.68         0.23             1.04                0.81              26,730              83%        Rs159,300
100 kg/day      0.56        0.18      0.74         0.29             1.04                 0.75             16,500              35%        Rs 47,400
75 kg/day      0.56        0.25      0.81         0.36             1.04                0.68              11,220              21%        Rs 18,200
* Premium due to better quality RSS of Rs 0.52 fetched in the project area is only half the premium fetched from export sales since
at the forecast rubber price level of Rs 19/kg the marginal export duty rate is 50% of the export price.                                          S H >'
m 



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Table 9
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Prolect
Summary iro1ect costs
(Rs '000)
Total      F.E.
Years    1             2          3         4         5        6         Total           in       in
Components                                                                                               Cost       US$ '000   US '000
Replanting Costs
Replanting Payments:
Payments in Kind
Budded Stumps                              -          1,977      3,456    4,940    5,930   6,916          23,219      1,498          75
Fertilizer                                 -            636      1,866    4,005    6,780  10,155          23,442    _1512        1,210
Sub-Total                   -          2,613       5,322    8,945   12,710  17,071          46,661      3,010      1,285
Payments in Cash                             -          4,672    11,416   20,255   30,139  40,618          107,100       6,910        134
Sub-Total Replanting Payments                -          7,285          16,738   29,200   42,849  57,689    153,761      9,920       1,419
Fertilizer Subsidies                         -          1,013      3,123    6,862   11,773  17,761          40,532      2,615       2,091
Total Replanting Cost                        -          8,298    19,861   36,062   54,622  75,450          194,293    12,535        3,510
Institution Building
Dept. of Rubber Control (DRC)
Investments - Office Building           285             570        -         -         -        -            855          55         14
- Vehicles & Eqpt.         345             690        -         -         -        -          1,035         67          35
Sub-Total                 630          1,260         -         -         -       -           1,890        122         49
Staffing                                175             350        660       993    1,354   1,725          5,257         339       -
Operating Costs                           61            201        234       267       301      339        1,403          90         40
Total DRC                                866          1,811        894    1,260    1,655   2,064           8,550         551         89
Advisory Service Dept. (ASD)
Tnvestments - Bldg. & Housing         2,570           5,525      3,755       -         -        -         11,850         764        191
- Vehicles & Eqpt.       3,625           3.132        927       234       180      180        8,278        534        496
Sub-Total              6,195          8,657      4,682        234       180     180       20,128       1,298        687
Staffing                              1,096           2,475      2,475    3,247    3,247   3,247          15,787      1,019       -
Operating Costs                          716          1,230      1,420    1,477    1,477   1,477           7,797         503        323
Total ASD                             8,007          12,362      8,577    4,958    4,904   4,904          43,712      2,820      1,010
Training
Investments - Buildings               1,208             255        -         -         -        -          1,463          94         31
- Vehicles & Eqpt.         880             306        -         -         -        -          1,186          77         64
Sub-Total              2,088             561        -         -        -        -           2,649        171         95
Training Courses                         758            698        675       675       675      530        4,011         259        153
Total Training                        2,846           1,259        675       675       675      530        6,660        430        248
Technical Assistance                     1,209            186        -         -         -        -          1,395          90         81
Processing Component                          30              90        782    1,000    1,000       -           2,902        187         77
Research Component                         1,334          1,100         800       250       -       -           3,484        225        138
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Equipment                                  247             125         10      -         -        -             382         25         20
Staffing                                   144            168        168       169       169      169           987         64        -
Operating Costs                             38             76          76        76        76      76           418         27         19
Total PCU                                  429            369        254       245       245      245        1,787         116         39
Project Evaluation                           100              30         30        30        30       30          250         16          2
Total Base Cost                         14,821         25,505    31,873   44,480   63,131  83,223          263,033    16,970        5,194
Physical Contingencies                       406          1,022      1,183    1,324    1,856   2,433            8,224        530        130
Price Contingencies and Rcunding           1,364          6,743    13,349   24,892    44,501 71,894          162,743    10,500        2,040
GRAND TOTAL                              16,591        33,270    46,405  70,696   109,488 157,530          434,000    28,000        7,364
January 25, 1980



SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Yearly Replanting Costs & Proposed Payments (Rs/ha)
Actual Replanting Cost                  Replanting Costs for Estates                            Replanting Payment
(labor valued at market rate)               (labor valued at official rate)
Labor                                                                                                       Payment          Payment
Stage                        Required            Labor        Material       Total             Labor          Material      Total            in               in           Total
(MD)           (at Rsl2/MD)                                 (at Rsl7.5/M0)   _       _-Cash                                   Kind
2/
Preliminary Works               257              3,084             -         3,084             4,498              -         4,498           1,000             -           1,000
Planting Year                  163               1,956          3,435        5,391              2,695           3,435       6,130           1,918           1,632         3,550
Second Year                     108              1,296             562       1,858             1,890              562       2,452           2,029             471         2,500          1
Third Year                       83                996             751       1,747              1,452             751       2,203           1,814             686         2,500
Fourth Year                      63                756             702       1,458             1,103              702       1,805           1,833             667         2,500
Fifth Year                       60                720             695       1,415              1,050             695       1,745           1,340             660         2,000
Sixth Year                      46                 552             679       1,231               805              679       1,484             360             640         1,000
Seventh Year                    n.r.              n.r.           n.r.         n.r.              n.r.             n.r.        n.r.             350             650         1,000
Total                     780               9,360          6,824      16,184             13,493            6,824      20,317         10,644            5,406       16,050
1/  Further details in Annex 1, Table 1.
2/  Actual costs -in government estates (SPC & J1DB) where minimum wage laws are enforced.
December 20, 1979



SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Cash Flow of the Rubber Replanting Fund A'
(Rs M)
Years            1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989     1990      1991
onwards
Receipts (in constant 1979 prices)
Replanting Cess 1/                                   34.3     46.4      46.9      47.1      47.2      47.5      48.3     49.8      51.4      53.3      55.4      57.9      60.6
Investment Income                                     4.0      3.7       2.2       - 
2/      Sub-Total Receipts         38.3      50.1      49.1      47.1      47.2
Opening Balance                                      52.5      48.4     28.8      (1.8)                                             -         -         - _  _
Total Cash Available       90.8      98.5     77.9      45.3      47.2      47.5      48.3     49.8      51.4      53.3      55.4      57.9      60.6
Disbursements (in constant 1979 prices)
Replanting Payments 3/                               38.1     65.4      77.7      90.3    105.5    119.9    134.0    134.6    137.0    137.2    135.6    133.2    132.0
Other Incentive Schemes 4/                            2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0
Administrative Expenses 5/                            2.3       2.3      -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Cash Disbursements 42.4        69.7     79.7      92.3    107.5    121.9    136.0    136.6    139.0    139.2    137.6    135.2    134.0
Closing Balance                                      48.4     28.8      (1.8)   (47.0)   (60.3)   (74.4)   (87.7)   (86.8)   (87.6)   (85.9)   (82.2)   (77.3)   (73.4)
Contribution Required From                            -                  -        47.0      60.3      74.4      87.7     86.8      87.6      85.9      82.2      77.3      73.4
Budget Sources (in constant 1979 prices)
Contribution Required From                            _         _        _         3.1       3.9       4.8       5.6       5.7      5.7       5.5       5.3       5.0       4.7         1
Budget Sources in constant US$ equiv.)
Contribution Required From               6/           -         -        -         4.1       5.8       8.0      10.5     11.9      13.4      14.4      15.6      16.5      17.3
Budget Sources (in current US$ equiv.)
IDA Contribution to the Fund                          _        _         0.5       1.0       1.8       2.9       3.4      3.7       -         -         -         -         -
Net GOSL Contribution -/  -           -        (0,5)     3.1       4.0       5.1       7.1       8.2     13.4      14.4      1% g      lh S      17.3
(in current US$ equiv.)
1/  Based on (i)  cess level at prevailing rates of Rs 0.26/kg in 1979 and Rs 0.35 thereafter; it is assumed that the current rate of Rs n.35 will be maintained in
real value throughtout; (ii) 90% of total expected production being exported; and, (iii) average yields of 265 kg/ha for rubber uprooted and average yield of
1,070 kg assumed over recently replanted mature rubber.
2/  Deposit with Treasury (Rs 50 M), Investment in Government loan (Rs 2 M), and other loans (Rs 0.5 M).
3/  Based on following total planting targets (smallholder and estates):
1979:  4,900 ha              1983:  8,500 ha
1980:  6,100 ha              1984:  9,300 ha
1981:  6,900 ha              1985: 10,100 ha
1982:  7,500 ha              1986 onwards:  8,100 ha
It also assumes a Rs 16,050 replanting payment (eight installments in seven years as follows: Rs 3550 + 1000; 2500; 2500; 2500; 2000; 1000; 1000.
Same replanting payment applying to smallholders  and estates.  Should the payment to estates be terminated, cash disbursements on replanting
payments should be reduced by 35 % and the required contribution from budget resources reduced accordingly.
4/ Rubber New Planting, Crop Diversification, Factory Modernization and Subsidy Schemes.
5/  Administrative expenses to be funded from budget from 1981 onwards.
6/  Assuming average domestic price increases of 12% per annum. and corresponding annual adjustments of the cess level and replanting payments.
7|  To dbtain Net GOSL contribution in local currency in any given year, the US$ amount shown should be converted at the exchange rate prevailing in that year.                    n M
A/  Based on replanting payment rates and corresponding targets prevailing at the time of appraisal (footnote 3/).  Should be reworked as and when
replanting nayment rates and targets are revised.
December 11, 1979



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Table 12
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Disbursement Schedule
US$ '000
Project Year (Calendar Year)           Disbursements             Cumulative
and Quarter                      per Quarter            Disbursements
PY I   (1980)
- Fourth                       150                     150
PY II  (1981) - First                         300                     450
- Second                       350                     800
- Third                        250                   1,050
- Fourth                       250                   1,300
PY III (1982) - First                         400                   1,700
- Second                       400                   2,100
- Third                        450                   2,550
- Fourth                       450                   3,000
PY IV  (1983) - First                         500                   3,500
- Second                       500                   4,000
- Third                        600                   4,600
- Fourth                       600                   5,200
BY V   (1984) - First                         700                   5,900
- Second                       700                   6,600
- Third                        850                   7,450
- Fourth                       850                   8,300
PY VI  (1985) - First                       1,100                   9,400
- Second                     1,100                  10,500
- Third                      1,250                  11,750
- Fourth                     1,250                  13,000
(1986) - First                      1,500                  14,500
- Second                     1,500                  16,000
December 10, 1979



SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Detailed Disbursement Categories
(Rs '000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------- Categories                       ------------------------------------------------------
Components           Fertilizer    Cash            Fertilizer          Planting         Civil          Vehicles &        Salaries &    Operating           Local         Foreign Train-   Unallocated             Total
Subsidy    Payments                            Materials          Works          Equipment         Allowances         Costs         Training      ing & T.A.
Replanting                          40,532      107,100           23,442            23,219             -                -                 -              -                                                                  194,293
DRC Component                         -            -                 -                -                855             1,035             5,257          1,403           -               _                                     8,550
AID Component                                      -                 _                _            11,850              8,278            15,787          7,797           -               -                                    43,712
Training                                           -                 -                -             1,463              1,186              -              -              1818         2,193                                   6,660
Technical Assistance                  -                                                                -                -                                               -              1,395                                  1,395
Processing Component                  -            -                 -                -             1,296              1,356              _               250                           -                                     2,902
Research Component                    -            -                 -                _                -               3,484              -              -              _               -                                     3,484
Project Coordination                  -            -                 -                -               _                  382               987            418           -               -                                     1,787
Project Evaluation                    -            -                -                 -                -                -                  250           -              -               -                                       250
Base Total                40,532    107,100             23,442           23,219         15,464             15,721           22,281           9,868           1,818          3,588                                263,033
Physical Contingencies                2,025        -               1,172             3,481          1,546               -                 -              -              -               -                                    8,224
Total incl.Phys.COnt.(Rs'000)   42,557    107,100                 24,614            26,700         17,010             15,721           22,281           9,868          1,818           3,588                               271,257
Total incl.Phys.Cont.(US$'00O)    2,746           6.910            1.588             1,723          1,097              1,014             1,437            637             117            231                                17,500
Disb-rsement Percentages                 uh                           807                             su.                 8u7.              uil            Ui              Uio           lU
Credit Allocation                                                  8,177                               878               811              -                                              231                5,903           16,000
Credit Allocation after                 -                         11,200                            1_150              1,100              _              _              _                250                2,300           16,000
reducing the unallocated and
round ing
1/  5a/ on fertilizer, 15% on planting material and 10/ on civil works.
December 7, 1979



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
Table 14
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Financial and Economic Rubber Prices
1990 Forecast
US cents/kg.
RSS 1 CIF New York 1/                          115.0
in 1977 prices
Adjusted to 1979 prices                        152.4
(Inflation Factor 1.33)
CIF New York adjusted    2/                    142.9
for quality differential -
FOB Colombo after shipping                     125.5
and handling charges 3/
-______-___ - Rs --             -
Financial       CF       Economic
FOB Colombo -/                   19.45                      19.45
Less
Shippers and Brokers Charges    0.42           0.91          0.38
Cesses:  Rubber Replanting        0.3500                      -
Rubber Control          0.0100
Rubber Research         0.0800
Medical                 0.0165                      -
Sub-Total 0.4565                      -
Say       0.46                        -
Export Duty -/                   10.31
Upgrading in Colombo              0.50                        -
Dealers Charges 6/                0.15          1.11         0.17
Sub-Total Deductions        11.84                       0.55
Price in Project Area             7.61                      18.90
Say                          7.6                       18.9
1/ Source:  International Rubber Study Group as quoted by EPDCE (January 1979).
2/ Quality adjustment factor of 0.938 on the basis of an average mix
of export grades and prices constant throughout the period.
RSS Grade               1      2     3      4+5 )
Percent of exports in this grade        47    20    25       8  )      0     938
Price relative to RSS 1                100  0.94  0.90   0.69  )       0
3/ Actual Singapore-New York freight cost for rubber of US 15.8/kg in 1979
+ 10% cost increase, i.e. US 17.4/kg.
4/ At O.E.R.: Rs 15.5 = US$1.00.
5/ Export duty as levied per gazette of November 15, 1977.
6/ Mostly transport cost, while profit is made by downgrading at the
purchase point.
December 14, 1979



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
Table 15
SRI LANKA
Share of FOB Returns from Rubber Export
Amongst Producers, Market Intermediaries and GOSL
Share of FOB Returns                         Application of
from Rubber Exports                          FOB Returns to
Rubber Production Costs
Replant ing
Payments
(22%)
Export
Duty
Fertilizer
GOSL          (52.5%)        ,                       Subsidies
(55%)                                                  (14%)
Technical
Assistance
(8%)
Surplus
(11%)
MARKET         Cesses (2.5%)
INTERMEDIARIES
(5%)
Production
Costs
(22%)
RUBBER       Producer
PRODUCERS-       Price           _
(40%)                       .
(40%)
Net Return
to Producer
(18%)
FOB Returns to Rubber Producers:
Producer Price             40%
Replanting Payments *    22%
Fertilizer Subsidies:    14%
Total    76%



-91 -                                   ANNEX 4
Tables 16 and 17
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Table 16:   FINANCIAL RETURNS TO SMALLHOLDERS
Category of Smallholder        Indicator       -----          Results ------------
Before Financial   After Financial
Assistance        Assistance
Smallholder using
family labor                 % increase in
NR/MD 1/           +421%               +421%
- no intercrop                   NII 2/              + 18%              + 35%
- with intercrop                 NII 2               + 30%              + 43%
Smallholder using
hired labor
- no intercrop                   IRR 3/                11%                 32%
1/ NR/MD Net Return per man-day (full development vs preproject)
2/ NII = Present Value of Incremental Net Income
Present Value of Without Project Net Income
It represents the increase in the smallholder's average annual income as
a result of the investment, and is expressed in percentage terms.
3/ Financial Rate of Return.
Table 17:      REPLANTING PAYMENT PER HECTARE
Years              Installment               Stage                   Replanting
Payment (Rs)
First              First                 Land Preparation                1,000
First              Second                Planting                        3,550
Second, third      Third, fourth
and fourth         and fifth                                       3 x 2,500
Fifth              Sixth                Maintenance                      2,000
Sixth              Seventh               Maintenance                     1,000
Seventh            Eighth                Opening                         1,000
16,050
January 21, 1980



SRI LANKA
Snollholder Robber Rehabilitation Project
Cash Flow Analysi. for Three Tyves of Farm
u-ne Rectare Model
Years       1          2          3          4          5          6          7         8         9         10         11        12        20        24        30
Case I - Srsallh.ldi.g Withoot Inte--rp
Without Project
Operating In-.e                                                     2014       2014       2014       2014       2014      2014    _                                   -          -         - _ _
Operoting Costs (Inpots only)                                        201        201        201        201        201       201
Net Income               1813       1813       1813       1813       1813      1813
With Proiect
Capital Costs (Inputs only)                                          -         3    1/    562         751        702       695         683        -        -          -          -         -         -
Operating Incom.e                                                   2014       2470        -          -          -         -           -        2280    5130       6384        7258      8132      9804      8132      7258
Operating Costs (Inputs only)                                        201        -               -          -          -          -              1158    1258        1060       1126      1191      1317      1157      1074
Net Intone               1813       (965)      (562)      (751)      (702)    (695)        (683)    1122    3872         5324       6132      6941      8487      6975      6184
Incremental Net Income                                                 -        (2778)    (2375)    (2564)    (2515)   (2508)           (683)    1122    3872        5324        6132      6941      8487     6975       6184
Pi.s Replaoting  Paymn.t                                             -        4550        2500       2500       2500     2000         1000     1000       -          -           -         -         -         -         -
Incremental Cash Flow .                                                         1772         125        (64)       (15)    (508)         317     2122    3872        5324        6132      6941      8487      6975      6184
NPV of Incrementol Cash Flow at 122.:  Re 22.919/ho
Case II - nSmllholdin8 With IntercroP
Without Project
Net Income               1813       1813       1813       1813       1813      1813         -
With Proiect
Capital Costs  (Inputs only)                                          -        3435        562        751        702      695          683
Operating Income              - Rubber                              2014       2470_        -          -          -         -           -       1824    4712        5966       6840      7675      9804      8132      7258
- Ranana                               -        3000       5800       5800       5000                                                       -         -          -              -
Sub-Total                       2014       5470       5800       5800       5000        -           -       1824    4712        5966       6840      7675      9804      8132      7258
operoting Costs (Input)       - Robber                               201         -          -          -          -         -           -      1102    1227         1029       1094      1157      1317      1157      1074
- 8anana                               -         916       1040       1090       1040                              -        -          -          -         -         - _
Sub-Total                        201         916      1040       1090       1040        -           -       1102    1227        1029       1094      1157      1317      1157      1074
Net Income               1813       1119       4198       3959       3258      (695)       (683)      722    3485       4937        5746      6518      8487      6975      6184
Incremental Net Income                                                  -        (694)      2385       2146       1445    (2508)        (403)     722    3485        4937        5746     6518      8487      6975      6184
Plus Replanting Payment                                               -       4550        2500       2500       2500     2000         1000     1000        -          -          -         -
Iocremental Cash Floe                                                           3856       4885       4646        3945     (508)         317     1722    3485        4937       5746      6518      8487      6975      6184
NPV of InTrementol Cash Flo. at 12%:  Rs 36.112/ho
Case ITT - Smallholdimg Using Hired Labor
Without Pro1lect
Operatfng Incone                                                    2014       2014       2014       2014       2014     2014           -        -        -          -          -          _         _
Operating Conts   - I.puts                                           201        201        201        201        201      201
- Labor                                         1422       1422       1422       1422       1422     1422
Net Iscone                391        391        391        391        391       391
With Proiect
Capital Crst         -  Inputs                                        -        3435        562        751        702      695         683
-  Labor                                       1680       3360       1296        996        756      720          552
Sub-Total                       1680       6795       1858       1747       1458      1415        1235
Op-rating I-come                                                    2014      2470          - _          _          _         _                2280    5130        6384       7258      8132      9804      8132      7258
Operating Costs    - Inputs                                          201         -          -          -          -        -           -       1158    1258        1060       1126      1191      1317      1157      1074
-  .ab,or                                      1422       _            -          -        _          -            -      1644    3564        3180       3180      5180      3100      5180      5520
Sub-Total                       1623         _                     -           -        -           -       2802    4822        4240       4306      4371      4497      4337      6594
Net Income              (1289)    (4325)    (1858)    (1747)    (1458)   (1415)           (1235)    (522)    308        2144        2952      3761      5307      3795       664
1ncremental Net Income                                               (1680)    (4716)    (2249)    (7138)    (1849)   (1806)          (1235)    (522)    308         2144       2952      3761      5307      3795       664
Plus Replanting Payment                                               -       4550       2500       2500       2500      2000        1100      1000       -          -          -         -         -
Incrneental C.sh Flow                                               (1680)      (166)        251       362        651       194        (235)      478      308       2144       2952      3761      5307      3795       664
NPV of Incremental Cash Flow at 12,:  R.s 9 742/ho
1/ Rubber wood sales.t|
December 12  1979                                                                                                                                                                                                          w!a=
Deceber 12, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                           0-i
sc-



SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Government Project Cash Flow
(Rs '000)
Replanting Administrative  Fertilizer    Revenue        Revenue       Net GOSL    Cumulative
Years       Payments    Overheads       Subsidy      from Cess  from Export Duty  Revenue    Net Revenue
I                   0        13487             0             0             0       -13487        -13487
2                7285        16107          1013          -149        -4375        -28928        -42415
3               16738        11212          3123          -408       -12021        -43502        -85917
4               29200         8188          8862          -779       -22950        -67960       -153877
S               42849         8509         11773         -1224       -36070       -100425       -254301
6               57688         7773         17761         -1744       -51373       -136340       -380641
7               43207         5090         20599         -1595       -46986       -117490       -508131
8               38408         4660         22486         -1175       -34598       -101327       -609457
9               30406         3900         22152          -314        -9243        -66014       -675472
10             20004          2810         21542           987        29085        -14285       -689756
11              10403         1520         20668          2729        80387         50525       -639231
12              5601              0        19576          4311       126978        106111       -533120
13                  0             0        18265          5650       166445        153830       -379290
14                  0             0        16736          6459       190250        179973       -199317
15                  0             0        16736          7105       209293        199662           345
16                  0             0        16736          7671       225964        216899        217245
17                  0             0        16736          8114       239017        230395        447640
18                  0             0        16736          8500       250399        242164        689803
19                  0             0        16736          8499       250358        242121        931924
20                  0             0        16736          8804       259327        251395       1183319
21                  0             0        16736          8687       255905        247856       1431175
22                  0             0        16736          8395       247306        238966       1670141
23                  0             0        16736          8089       238274        229627       1899768
24                  0             0        16736          7685       226387        217336       2117105
25                  0             0        16736          7339       218180        206783       2323888
26                  0             0        15312          7186       211664        203538       2527426
27                  0             0        12819          7104       209262        203547       2730972
28                  0             0         9259          6770       199416        196927       2927899
29                  0             0         4985          6634       195405        197054       3124953
30                  0             0             0         5346       157475        162821       3287774
Financial IRR to Government        15.3% excluding overhead costs
13.7% including overhead costs
NPV of Government Revenue @ 12%:    Rs 128.3 M excluding overhead costs
Rs  74.5 M including overhead costs
Cost Recovery Index @ 12%          1.53 excluding overhead costs
1.25 including overhead costs                                       X
F u   41
February l5, 1980 



SRI LANKA
Soallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
1/
Income Levels of Project Participants (Rs)
-------------         ----------------Pre-project        -------   -----------Full Project Devt .--------------
Categories of         Household       Per Capita        % above             Household       Per Capita       % above
Beneficiaries            Income         Income          Poverty Income    Income              Income         Poverty Income
Small (0.4 ha)           2511           474              - 60%                3930             741           -  37%
Medium I (0.8 ha)        4142            781              - 34%               6980            1316           +  12%
Medium II (2.0 ha)   13010             2455              +108%               20026            3778           + 221%
Large (12.0 ha)        40239           7592              +544%               74620           14079           +1095%
1/  From Models 1 to 4 in Project File.
Proj ect Impact on Poverty Income Group
Category of    % Number           % Household        % Household          % Household in        % Project Benefits-  % Project Benefits
Holding           of             in Poverty        in Poverty           Poverty Income        Accruing to Each           Accruing to
(ha)         Households        Income Group      Income Group          Group at Full             Category             Poverty Income
before Project         Development                                        Group
0.4             22                 80                17.6                   17.6                    6                       4.8
0.8             42                 70                29.4                                          24                      16.8
2.6             33                 -                                                               47                        -
12.0               3                -                                          -                    19                         -
Landless        n.a.              1007.             _ _                     n.a.                    4                        4.0
100                                  47.0                  17.6                  100                       25.6
1/  Estimated on the basis of shares of the financial NPV of the project, calculated                                                       Xi
at the OCC = 12%, going to each group.                                                                                                 ax
N >.
40



SRI LANKA
Smallbolder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
(Rs '000)
Years      ----------------------------- Benefits -----------------_--_________   ---------- Production Costs -------------   .roject            Net Economic
Rubber      GPC Rubber      Banatnas        Wood           Total         Inputs          Labor          Total        Overheads       Benefits
----------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4151 ------7-36
. ( )), ;y t)  f1 tl         00!             0 ., 1 .00                   0          1487.36        1487. 36      13205. 78    - 4Gi3. *4
3075-) 31 1; P                  G            1'tl  , 72     i8 E  o7       5e79 .elf      ,  - 0  F.4    9h90.1i .44      0091 F . I3  -2 354   7 4.36
-413083 5"  1498.90 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7. 1' 3-.1   7 -8
'3 -49C1533't 3;!42249Ci PS F3t' ~         9>;7          zJ'??. F.-75-195  'i 31,    _q 1            '' 8<3l,,ft 57S>. -c4        99953_r478'
- 7-143 I       4  -2 27-      t i'    ' -ff    9i?t'   _i4-79if            , 7 i 7 S?-5'  2 r  0-A 37   25pe56i. f3     6V-- * r3 1   47Ge3. 25
- 114 '-' 12 -Ve   5 43fi ! .7'3  .t 30(.2V  35 1 'f; 7 f!94.-97i -?2-5, -4  3-992 ,52        3c925i  16t7. 7-              e52. 39    -86036.05
-. f5i473 .8                            1 25F7.        - 35240l7. , r39    5021-91 .77  -2-3-ll _,l    4t-3   . .   632 S8.39    -710540
7          -'!F      ' ,) )    "41 0         -7 *'            0 (0   ~398 1-'4~4,047 O  4 1 4        -7- s F, 7F  0 4 '5449.513       4-71 . .00    -6455S.33
9          _f'33183-v 3;5   '7'747  60     "r"3';3gi mtr    0    ..   --?3 3-3tlF  70  4'"F7d l;03   _t9729t9MS 330281.342            4723 .00    -58E'f3.66
1      -     9 A 4 -2.j 74 5l ..3 -          -..4 4 '             0        , ?  .01  4.  4011A .'7'   ,      . -4?s   359 >3.S'       A31o. 0    -2342!?1.2 :
Id0        -391'!SiS 0   31    i3  C             07 l-          00 ?:58.:04 . 90)    71F.7 9F7 G 35   ~ ~' -4.a 5    .?983.,         3G1 7. 0-0o   24776.t41
53542 -9 14  I  ) i44                30          -          34 '4 .33 C    8438.i     2      7e9.4      60496G.   ' 0 2 12.00         e0435. 43
;;3? 01-1   4107q7   40              '         "s 3t4l7 740Z"'3. 4fl    3907,5.80 86i     7601          6856.20        1407.007  A169945.20
44 0 -30 9   ,3q7333F07.70   0 61    I 3 4540' 6                         .83030. 04    :734J9 . 72     723767.             0 .00    2 412S5  .84
t14         !?6; 1310           S                             01. 0"   3cj79 6 S0      3"3J00         3104 77  7     6 '6 ?  G89R7 - SO   . CO    289289.71
.5          0 .'73 8                                            01'   i'v? r7 f3  V ,0  ' 00  36673.  '139tS7, 1 2  69 760.46           0.0    32Ti35.57
22*400)?.- RO    "'l 3'' 40'          30           1 :.'   4241.j G.20    3i735i. I 3     33CS7.'        70A36.4A            0.00   -353877 77 77
72tY41277  4X-}        "3' Y-7,19 7(,   l{)(;    (-1  0    448595.60       37893.94       330l87.1       70970.76,           0.0t-   377624,62
-2 257291w7f/  X   4o \-' 7t  '  -'3 aF-9                     9 4t . .1    32e340.48 .     30F7- 2       71427.64            33.00    39825 0.6
'- S        . 174 ;b C              33                        3 Z t3 5 .  (  C  8 .0 ?S5F'o .397,.                   79f. 9.             0 . 00    408367.59
,9 ! 3. Cl "     1 " 70            O  .              00    48635,.70       38 7C . e      33087.12       7'3 '. 97.97        0.  00    414556.73
?t.        "7_747 8f3. SO   ?17/  PI              C            0. 003   490055.F0      38577.99       330637.12      7166S5.'            0.0O    408390.69
22          ?'i 72 5.44""  "0                                  0  'O    4,A1446.'S     3240. 36    330t7.12          71327.50             0.00.  392820.70
23         .13.17741       2 -, j9;  e  .''       30           e.3e    447,  ''20 ',707'9             33067.12       70956.04            0.a0    376371.66
24          "I' " 8                                              -C-' " '  t;  0 5 t  s25186.iC3  37379.52  32087.12  703t4S5.64         0.33O    354719.46
.~5         21I 7S ?4.?0 ""9 PZ   C3'                         i-!.l    4.9085.J''      369F5O.3t      33087.t2       70038.03            0.0(0   328047.17
'3-         ".')0 4:9SQ if!   .3jL5X;?  ")     t30l           e0   397f911 t.0            2                         6660.5A ?3943.ER  6BS04.69  0.  }3.
7           3--'?;  33   l92.6?,tg- i           C              "3 03   2?935133 2'z    3hf02.6s      36453.GO       6705G.29             9.00   326456.61
;'t?        '8H5722.30 3    89368.40           0tC            0 .00    3759OP.701    24fi'?7 42    239266. '12e    63926.30                .0O   311172.40
:8C        3e; 307. 2-    :2,10.00 a, oe)0                    0.00} no    36757: .70   1780e'5.80     4250S.2?      60.J  .02 '_.00    307256.62
10}         1 79!.-,0.9. 3 '.1 $  ?12,. 80 fCt. 1 30          3: .B00   3S20)33.90      983.R41 -     47242.. .0     570t6a4. 5          0.00    304949.2w
NPV at 12 = Rs 484 M
ERR = 22.8%
I-.t|
I-t 3



- 96 -
ANNEX 4
Table 22
SRI LANKA
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Conversion Factors
Cost Item                     % of Project                     Conversion
Economic Cost                      Factor
Fertilizer                         24                            1.01 /a
Budded Stumps                       9                            0.69 Ia
Civil Works                         6                            0.71 /a
Equipment                           6                            0.98 /a
Labor                              40                            0.83 lb
Staff salaries                      9                            0.77 /c
Others                              6                            0.91 Id
/a Details are in Project File.
/b Rural Consumption CF.
/c Weighted Average of Rural Consumption CF of 0.83 (1/3)
and Urban Consumption Factor of 0.75 (2/3).
/d Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).
Source:  SCF, CF (Road Transport), CF (Rural Consumption)
and CF (Urban Consumption) from "Estimates of
Accounting Prices for Sri Lanka" by Deepak Lal
(June 1979).
January 16, 1980



SRI LANKA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR 1                      YEAR 2                      YEAR 3                       YEAR 4                      YEAR 5                       YEAR 6
1     2      3       4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4       1      2      3      4      1      2      3       4      1      2      3       4
GENERAL (PCU)                                                                                                            }                                                                        
Release of Funds for Preproject Activities.
Creation of PCU.                                  V
Submission Study Tour Itinerary to IDA.                     . .
Submission of draft Tender Documents for                 '
Equipment and Civil Works to I DA.
Advertisements for Consultants.
Recruitment of Consultants.                              '   5                          c
Preparation of Reporting Format.                          V                                .
Submission of Quarterly Progress Reports.                   .      v      v      V       c            'V '   v  v                                           v  V     v               V      v       v             V  
REPLANTING PROGRAM
Finalize Contracts for Planting Material (DRC).                                       V                            VV                                                                                    V
Publicity Campaign (ASD).                                                                                                -   -                 -   -    -  -    -                                -  -
Issue Revised Forms/Procedures (DRC).                                   V
Issue Lists of Registered Growers by Ranges                   :                         .
(DRC/ASD).
Select Distribution Points Within Ranges (ASD).                    v
Order Fertilizer Requirements (DRC).                              'Vv  V"   V                                                                                                                                     v
Issue Lists of Replanters and Entitlements byV                                                           V"
Range (DRC/ASD).                                             5
Submit Inspection Program (ASD).                                                'V                            v                           V                                                         ' v
Appoint Ombudsmen.                                          :v
Distribute Intercropping Advisory Leaflets (ASD).                       v
Estimate Intercrop Fertilizer, Platting Material
Requirements (DRCi. ,
Annual Replanineg Targets (Hectares)                                                    1600                         2800                        4000                         4800
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Recruit Incremental Staff (ASD).                            .
Recruit Incremental Staff (DRC).                               __.
Study Tours (PCU/ASD/DRC).                                                                                   'V        'V
Select Tenderer for Training Center IASO).                   -
Start Construction Training Center IASD).:.                                                                                                         5
Start Procurement Training Equipment and                                       _                                                          - -
Vehicles (ASDI.
Start Training Courses (ASD).
Complete Design all other Civil Works (ASD). ,
Construction Regional Offices IASD/DRC).                          -     -      -                 I
Construction Fertilizer Stores (ASD).
Construction Houses/Offices (ASD).                                -     --                          -       -     -       -      -    -3
Equipment Procurement (ASD).
PROCESSING COMPONENT (ASD)                                      i            '3
Establish PAD,                                                       
Review Rehabilitation Proposals.                            3                                                          4
Survey Existing GPCs/Private Processors.                                       V3
Review Proposals for Expansion of GPCs.                                                                  'V
EVALUATION COMPONENT (ARTI/ASD/PCUI
Design Surveys/Studies.                               .              |
Baseline Survey.                                                 V
Report Findings from Survey.                                   3          '
Design Case Studies.                                           .                    
Conduct Case Studies.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                             '                _          .
Replanting Scheme Administration.
Training.
Processing.                                                                              /
Project Evaluation.                                                                                                                                                                                                               PH17
//Main Planting Season.                                                                                                                                                                                    ol  an-13



_ 98 -
ANNEX 4
Chart 2
SRI LANKA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Project Organization
Mi nister of Plantation
Industries
tary           Rubber Policy!J            ~~~~Rubber Policy
I   Secretary MPI   |-rRubber Policy11ad  lnnn
Review Committee                  Unit
Agrarian Research                           *
n            ining            Project Coordination  _      _   _      _
Rubber Research                     Advisory Services                     Department of
Institute of                        Department                    IRubber Control
Sri Lanka                                                            L    ~
1/ Rubber Policy Review Committee
Chairman - Secretary of MPI
Members
Representative of Ministry of Finance and Planning     Representative of SPC
Representative of Ministry of Trade and Shipping       Representative of JEDB
Representative of Ministry of Industries               Representative of rubber smallholders
Director, RRISL                                        Representative of private rubber estates
Rubber Controller                                      Representative of SRMC
Director, ASD                                          Representative of private rubber processors
Representative of the Colombo Chamber of Commerce
World Bank --21274



SRI LANKA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization of Advisory Services Department
|  Director       |
HEAD OFFICE
Deputy Dlrector  l                                 l    ~~~~~~~~~~Deputy Director
(Admimstion & Training) |                                                  |      (Field Services)
Head                  HeadJ
(Administration &       (Training Unit)
Accounts
Administrative Staff    Training Staff"                          (Processing Advisory       (Extension             (Supplies
REGIONAL           -  -
OFFICE
DIV ISIONA L,_______________
OFFICE                                                                                 _              dvis                   Dvso
Advsors                Offiers                 Staf
RANGE_________
OFFICE
OFFICE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j/ Training staff are located at Training Center                                                                                                      r
World Bank--21169              W  4-



- 100 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
SRI LANKA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector and Sub-Sector.
Al. World Bank, "Development in Sri Lanka: Issues and Prospects" Report
No. 1937-CE March 22, 1978.
A2. World Bank "Sri Lanka. Medium Term Developmaent Strategy 1979-83.
Aide Memoire to the 15th Meeting of the Sri Lanka Aide Group."
April 1979.
A3. Commonwealth Development Corporation. "Report on the Rubber Industry
Masterplan Study". Twelve volumes. September 1979 (released December
1979). South Asia Records.
A4. Dr. Jogaratnam et al, "Report on Pricing ancl Subsidy Policies Affecting
Tree Crop Production in Sri Lanka," September 1979.
A5. Agriculture/Fertilizer Industry of Sri Lanka, September 1979.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl. FAO/World bank Cooperative Program Investment Center "Draft Report of
the Sri Lanka Smallholder Rubber Replanting Project Preparation Mission",
Report No. 15/79 CEY 15. March 9, 1979.
B2. GOSL (MPI) Smallholder Rubber Replanting Prcject Revised Preparation
Report.
B3. The Rubber Research Institute of Sri lanka "Annual Review, 1978",
August 1979;
B4. John Keels "Rubber Statistics, 1978, Sri Lanka."
B5. Messrs. A.B. Dissanayake, W.H. Premachandra and A. de Vass Gunawardena,
Ministry of Plantation Industries, January 1979. "Sample Survey of the
Rubber Smallholdings in Ratnapura and Kalutara Districts".
B6. Sri Lanka: The Rubber Replanting Scheme (IMF Draft July 19, 1979).
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl. Farm Models and Analysis Procedures.



- 101 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
C2.  Agricultural Project Analysis System:
-    Data for Financial and Economic Analysis Stored on Magnetic Tape.
-    Complete Set of Financial Commodity and Farm Budgets.
-    Project Labor Use.
-    Physical Inputs and Outputs for the Project.
-    Farm Size Distribution.
C3.  Production Aspects.
-    Labor Productivity and Calendar of Operations for Rubber and
Intercrops.
-    Inputs and Returns for Pineapples and Passionfruit as Intercrops.
C4.  Group Processing Centers.
-    Construction Costs.
-    Operating Norms.
-    Prodution Records for 1978.
C5.  Project Specific Conversion Factors.
C6.  Accounts.
-    DRC Annual Accounts 1978.
C7.  Replanting Scheme.
-    Achievements Within Project Area 1953-1978.
-    Achievements Island-Wide 1953-1978.
C8.  Export Duty Sliding Scale.
C9.  Legislation:  Rubber Control Act and Rubber Replanting Subsidy Act.
C10. Application for Replanting Permit.
Cll. Consultants'
C12. Miscellaneous Statistics.
C13. Miscellaneous Working Papers.






IBRD 14733R
8000'                                                                  ao0oo'                                         MARCH 5980
SRI LANKA                                                               Th,sa pas b-tf pe-po d bV,ce [h
th   eot  ochchttotahe      I  N    D   I A
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                b-Zd-, MZ-               ,    N
Wc,!d Batk ettd ,tcaihts  t                         e
tcchttenttt the: legal Sttc ci  -                  tfV7V
R*   Proposed Group Processmng Centers                                                  cccccc etauccbc c dci  s   .> ttcc
Existing
*     Group Processing Centers                                                                                       -.
*      Commodity Purchose Depots
*     Planting Material Nurseries                                                                                                           AScIKA
Kegalle District (16)
Kalutara District (10)
Ratnapura District (7)
0D     District Offices
-730              -    -    District Boundaries                                                                                                                            7- 30'5
- -  -   Division Boundaries                           N
Mcin Roads
Railways                                                                               f               )
117-  Rivers
KILOMETERS                1
MILES- 5                                                                        tq 15             GAL        LE                 no         D     a
\.X fK:EG L,E /
Avisrtwe. * :                   \KANDY
r            COLOMBO                                       ,          
-7-00' COL*OMBO 0                                       Hyrlc         /                '          i"                                                                       7-00 -
NL I.A A/'< 
:   - ete c  ,              A           X Pitigolo \                                    eos~~~~~~~~~~~~G LLE80 3C'  Deysr



