CREDIT NUMBER 1017 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1017 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        L       i4            , 1980, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Subsidy Act" means the Borrower's Rubber Replanting
Subsidy Act, No. 36 of 1953, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)  "Replanting Fund" means the Rubber Replanting Subsidy
Fund established under the Subsidy Act;
(c)  "Control Act" means the Borrower's Rubber Control
Act, No. 11 of 1956, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d) "Replanting Scheme" means the Borrower's ongoing program
to assist rubber growers in the replacement of overaged rubber
trees with high yielding rubber cultivars and the introduction of
modern methods of rubber cultivation, in accordance with the
Control Act;
(e)  "Project Coordination Unit" means the Project Coordina-
tion Unit as headed by the Project Coordinator whose appointment
is referred to in the letter of the Secretary, Ministry of Planta-
tion Industries dated March 13, 1980;


﻿-2-
(f) "Project Area" means the Borrower's administrative
districts of Kalutara, Ratnapura and Kegalle;
(g) "Rupees" and "Rs" means Rupees in the Borrower's cur-
rency; and
(h) "ha" means hectares of land.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-


﻿-3-
ary 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1990, and ending Janu-
ary 1, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and agri-
cultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquilition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) by March 31, 1981,
cause all Group Processing Centers under Part C of the Project, to
be established and organized under appropriate by-laws; and (ii)
ensure or take steps necessary to ensure that no new Group Pro-
cessing Centers are established in the Project Area until the
potential members of any such Group Processing Centers have
pledged to collectively supply not less than 100 kg of latex per
day of operation.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish by January 1,
1981 and thereafter maintain with powers, resources and staff
or composition satisfactory to the Association:


﻿- 5 -
(a) the Advisory Services Department as a separate depart-
ment within its Ministry of Plantation Industries;
(b) a Rubber Policy and Planning Unit within its Ministry
of Plantation Industries, whose responsibility includes the provi-
sion of advice to the Rubber Policy Review Committee referred to
hereunder, on levels of industry cesses, duties, replanting
payments and other matters related to the rubber industry; and
(c) a Rubber Policy Review Committee within its Ministry
of Plantation Industries.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including, without linitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
described in Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with regard to replanting
payments and contracts each of 100,000 Rupees or less, on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on
the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause its departments and
agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof to: (i) establish a separate account for the purposes of
the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial statements
(statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than twelve months after


﻿-6-
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their respec-
tive financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by
said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred
to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iv) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its departments
and agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof, by January 1, 1981, to appoint such accounting
staff as may be required to implement the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) annually review the financial resources of the Replanting
Fund required to implement the Project and continue to carry out
the Replanting Scheme, and promptly furnish to the Association the
results of said review; and
(b) provide the Replanting Fund with the resources necessary
to finance the implementation of the Project, and continue to
carry out the Replanting Scheme at a rate mutually agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of The
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the Subsidy Act,
the Control Act and any other legislation or regulation of the
Borrower governing the rubber sector shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived, or shall cease to be
enforced, so as to materially and adversely affect the Replanting
Scheme, the Replanting Fund or the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are


﻿-7-
specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof; namely any event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date           oJ&   I   ,/9O is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo
Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECMINFIN                           1232
Colombo                             FORAID
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By/S
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/SIk
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Replanting payments          11,200,000        80% of amounts
to Smallholders                               disbursed
(2) Civil works                   1,150,000        80%
(3) Vehicles, equipment           1,100,000
and materials
(a) directly imported                         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manufac-                          100% of local
tured                                    expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) procured locally                          80%
(4) Consultants' services           250,000        100%
and overseas training
(5) Unallocated                   2,300,000
TOTAL              16,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 10 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "lodal expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the'Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $200,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3) and
(4) on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after April 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 11 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to increase
production and improve quality of rubber in the Project Area,
and consists of the following:
Part A:   Replanting
Replanting with high yielding rubber on about 27,000 small-
holdings replacing about 19,000 ha of overaged rubber.
Part B:   Institutional Support
1.   Strengthening of the Department of Rubber Control
and the Advisory Services Department including improvement
of their respective capabilities to administer the Replanting
Scheme, and advise smallholders on rubber replanting, through
staffing, training, provision of equipment and civil works.
2.   Support of the Project Coordination Unit.
Part C:   Processing
1.   Improvement of smallholder rubber processing standards
through provision of technical and managerial advice to private
processors and to Group Processing Centers by the Processing
Advisory Division of the Advisory Services Department.
2.   A phased program for the establishment of about 50
new Group Processing Centers and rehabilitation of existing
Group Processing Centers.
Part D:   Research
Provision of vehicles, equipment and fellowships for the
Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka.
Part E:   Evaluation
Support of surveys and studies for the evaluation of the
impact of the Project on smallholders by the Agrarian Research
and Training Institute.


﻿- 13 -
Part F:  Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for training, rubber
processing, Replanting Scheme administration and Project evalua-
tion.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 15 -
Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sri Lanka if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Sri Lanka equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 16 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be carried out by contracts awarded under
the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   (a) Contracts for equipment and materials with values
estimated not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 for each
contract, may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association,
provided that the aggregate expenditure for contracts so pro-
cured shall not exceed the equivalent of $800,000.
(b) Any item of equipment and materials with a cost not
exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 each, may be procured through
prudent shopping in accordance with the Borrower's procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that the
aggregate expenditure for items so procured shall not exceed the
equivalent of $100,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment, materials
and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,


﻿- 17 -
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons -therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


