Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4316 PNG
Loan Agreement
(El Niño Drought Response Project)
between
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 22, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4316 PNG
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1998, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW 
GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project. 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the National Agricultural Research Institute pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Financing Agreement. 
(b)
“National Agricultural Research Institute” and the acronym “NARI” mean 
the research institute established by an Act of the Borrower’s National Parliament of 
July 1996 and operating since May 5, 1997, under the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Agriculture and Livestock, aimed at establishing sustainable development in the 
agricultural sector. 
(c)
“Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation” means a wholly-owned State bank, 
established by the Borrower’s Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation Act (Chapter 136) 
dated February 14, 1974. 
(d)
“PCFU” means the Project Coordination and Facilitation Unit to be 
established within the Borrower’s Department of Provincial and Local Government 
Affairs pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(e)
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to 
measure the achievement of the Project objectives as set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million dollars ($5,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Page  3
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Kina a separate special deposit account in Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A and B of the Project through its Department of Provincial and Local 
Government Affairs, and Part C of the Project through NARI, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
agricultural and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project the Borrower shall, 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, make available to NARI, as a grant, $630,000 
equivalent under a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
NARI, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financing Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
Page  4
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
NARI; and 
(b)
the PCFU shall have been established and its Manager appointed in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
Page  5
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that Financing Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NARI and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and NARI in accordance with its terms. 
Section 5.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister for Treasury and Corporate Affairs of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry for Treasury and Corporate Affairs
Department for Treasury and Corporate Affairs
P.O. Box 710
Waigani
Port Moresby
Papua New Guinea
Cable address: 
Telex:
TREASURER
NE22218
Boroko
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By  /s/  Nagora Y. Bogan, Ambassador
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/  Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director 
Page  6
Papua New Guinea
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
1,800,000
80%
(2)
Goods
1,700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 90% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants' services:
(a) under Part B 
  100,000
100% 
    of the Project
(b) under Part C 
  170,000
100%
    of the Project
(4)
Incremental operating
  730,000
100%
costs
(5)
Unallocated
  500,000
 ________
TOTAL
5,000,000
=========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means: (i) salaries, field 
allowances and travel expenses of the PCFU manager and staff; (ii) technical 
supervision and on-the-job training costs under Part B of the Project; and salaries, 
field allowances and travel expenses of the Water Management Group manager and staff, 
and consumables under Part C of the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after December 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
Page  7
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) all goods; (b) all works; and 
(c) incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) enable the Borrower to adequately 
address droughts and other natural disasters caused by the El Niño; and (b) enhance 
the capacity of local governments to handle the adverse effects of natural disasters.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A:
Community Rural Works Programs 
Carrying out of small-scale community selected development projects, including 
maintenance of access roads, including drains and erodable sites, schools, health 
facilities and airstrips, and construction of foot bridges and gabion baskets.
PART B:
Rural Water Supply 
Provision of sustainable potable water supply in selected areas, through the 
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of groundwater and other permanent 
sources of water supply, including the provision of consultants, technical supervision 
and training during design and construction.
PART C:
Agricultural Research
Carrying out of agricultural research studies on: (a) selection and 
multiplication of drought and frost tolerant varieties of Papua New Guinea’s major 
staple foodcrops; and (b) soil moisture management and supplementary irrigation, 
including provision of consultants therefor.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Page  8
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable: 
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus 
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable: 
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus 
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in US 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in US Dollars for value on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate 
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
Page  9
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November, 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and further revised in 
September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
International or National Shopping Goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international and national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Community Participation
Works under Part A of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to the first five contracts for works to be procured under 
Community Participation procedures in each of the Borrower’s Provinces regardless of 
their respective estimated costs, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract. The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 
2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to each of these contracts.
Page  10
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
The Manager of the PCFU and the Water Management Research Scientist referred to 
in paragraph 1 and 4(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.  
2.
Consultants’ services required to assist in carrying out Part B of the Project 
shall be procured either under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, or paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of  
the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants’ 
services to be awarded in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines the Borrower shall, prior to the award of the contract, furnish to the 
Bank, for its approval, the name and curriculum vitae of the selected individual 
consultant(s), the terms of reference and draft contract. 
2.
With respect to each contract for the employment of consultants’ services to be 
awarded in accordance with paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines the 
Borrower shall, prior to the award of the contract, furnish to the Bank, for its 
approval, the short list of consultants, the selection criteria, the terms of 
reference and draft contract. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, within its Department of Provincial and Local 
Government Affairs, a Project Coordination and Facilitation Unit, headed by a Manager 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, selected and retained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II, Schedule 4 to this Agreement, assigned 
with such functions, responsibilities, funds and other resources, satisfactory to the 
Bank, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, as shall be required for the 
day-to-day implementation of the Project, overall Project monitoring, accounting and 
reporting, and to coordinate the various activities to be undertaken under the Project 
with the relevant provinces and districts and NARI.
2.
For purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project the Borrower shall 
ensure that:
(a)
works under Part A of the Project shall be selected in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
sites for the construction of new groundwater and other permanent sources 
of water supply under Part B of the Project shall be selected in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
planning, design and construction of the works under Parts A and B of the 
Page  11
Project shall be carried out in accordance with technical and environmental criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
3.
Prior to the commencement of works under Parts A and B of the Project in any 
given District selected pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 2(b) and 2(c), 
respectively, of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a public 
awareness campaign satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall and shall cause NARI to,  not later than September 30, 1998: 
(a)
establish and thereafter maintain a Water Management Group assigned with 
such functions, responsibilities, funds and other resources, satisfactory to the Bank, 
and with competent staff in adequate numbers, as shall be required for the carrying 
out of Part C of the Project; and
(b) 
pursuant to the provisions of Section II, Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
retain the services of  a water management research scientist to assist in carrying 
out Part C of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out the research studies under Part C of the Project under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
not later than December 31, 1999, prepare an action plan for the 
implementation of the recommendations of said studies taking into account the comments 
of the Bank on such recommendations, and, promptly thereafter, carry out such action 
plan.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank: 
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later than January 31, and July 31 in 
each Fiscal 
Year, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation 
activities carried out by it 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above in 
respect of the preceding calendar semester, 
and setting forth proposed 
measures, indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation 
activities, to further the objectives of the Project during the 
then current calendar semester; and 
(ii)
a mid-report, not later July 31, 1999, summarizing the monitoring 
and 
evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above, from 
the inception of the Project, and setting 
forth any proposed measures, 
indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to further the 
objectives of the Project; 
and
(c)
exchange views with the Bank on each report furnished by the Borrower 
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, and thereafter, take all such measures, in relation 
thereto, as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
1.
Community Rural Works (Number/Province/Year)
Total projects per province per year (target 50) 
Page  12
Break down by type of project 
Break down by Activity Type 
Type A - Common Community Good (schools, health posts, village halls, etc) 
 Type B - Wider Public Good ( access roads, airstrips, minor roads, foot                                                                                                                                                      
bridges) 
Break down by Situation (Emergency vs Non-Emergency) 
Number of People Employed (male/female; per project type; overall) 
Unit costs by type of project
2.
Rural Water Supply (Number/Province/Year)
Total projects per province per year (target 20) 
Break down by type of project (deep wells, shallow wells, other permanent) 
Technical Supervisors (target 2 per province) 
Maintenance Funds Established at Village Level (target one per project) 
Field Staff Trained (target 10) 
Water Committees established (one per project) 
Number of system failures Unit Costs by type of project (per system type and per 
beneficiary)
3.
Agricultural Research
Food crop varietal screening: number of varieties by crop type and by each research 
centre (frost/drought)
Multiplication: numbers/volume of planting material by crop Status of Preparation of 
Water Resources Plan (completion target by December 31, 1999) 
Results of Water Trials (locations, efficiency and areas of influence)
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the  Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  13
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories  shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such depositor refund, 
Page  14
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
