Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9252
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
(CREDIT 1114-BA)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regi(n
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
At Appraisal (June 1980): US$1.00=Kyat (K)6.60
(For exchange rates throughout implementation see Attachment Table 1)
Fiscal Year of Borrower
April 1 - March 31
Weights and Measures
1 hoppus foot (HF)   =  1.273 cubic feet (cu ft) true geometric measure for
roundwood
1 hoppus ton (H ton) =  50 HF in round logs or 63.75 cu ft true geometric
measures,
or
= 1.805 cubic meter (M3) roundwood under bark
1 sawn ton (S ton)   =  50 cu ft of sawnwood, or =1,416 M3
1 metric ton (mt)    =  2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
Cc           Construction Corporation, Ministry of Construction
EPC      =   Electric Power Company
FAO/CP   =   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FD           Forest Department, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
FID          Furniture Industries Department, Myanma Timber Enterprise
FINNIDA  =   Finnish International Development Agency
GOM      =   Government of Myanmar (formerly Government of Burma - GOB)
MAF      =   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MTE      =   Myanma Timber Enterprise (formerly Timber Corporation - TC)
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
PU       =   Project Unit, Myanma Timber Enterprise
SAR      =   Staff Appraisal Report of Burma Wood Industries I Project,
dated February 19, 1981 (Report No. 3362-BA)
SEE      =   State Economic Enterprise



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A
Oftce Of DlfecdOq.eflrAKI
Opeatmns EvaluatitIn
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Myanmar
Wood Industries I Project (Credit 1114-BA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Myanmar: Wood Industries I Project (Credit 1114-BA)"
prepa:ed by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
(Cr. 1114-BA)
Table of Contents
PREFACE                                   .  . . . . . .  . . . . . . .       .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..1. .  .  .  .  .    . . i
PART I
1.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . .       1
2.  Background    . . . .   . . . . .  .  .         .  . . .    * . .   .       1
3.  Project Objectives and Description       .  .       .   .   . .      2
4.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
5.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
7.  Project Sustainability   .. . .   * .. .      .  .  .  .   . . .  .  .   .  8
8.  IDA Performance  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...... .  8
9.  Borrower Performance   ....  .      .  .   . .  .  .  .    .... ..  .   .    10
10. Project Relationship .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .  .. .       11
11. Consulting Services  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
12. Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . ..  .  .         11
PART II  (Not Received)   ....  .  .     .  .    . . . .    .  .  .     .  .    .. .  .    13
PART III
1. Related IDA Credits.                     . . ...                     15
2. Project Timetable.... ....                                           15
3.  Credit Disbursements          .. .      .. ..                       17
4.  Project Implementation            . .. .       .....                17
5.  Project Costs and Financing       .  ..... .  .                     18
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . . . . . . . . . .   20
7.  Status of Covenants  ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    ......... .    22
8. Use of Bank Resources .                               . ....... .  23
ATTACHMENT
1.  Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates   . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
2.  Sawmills - Financial Flows and Returns   . . . . . . . . . . .    25
3.  Plymill 2 - Financial Flows and Returns  . . . . . . . . . . .   26
4.  Plymill 3 - Financial Flows and Returns  . . . . . . . . . . .   27
5.  FID - Financial Flows and Returns  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
6.  Project - Financial Flows and Returns  . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
MAP IBRD 15250R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



v i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
(Cr.1114-BA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Burma Wood
Industries I Project for which a credit of SDR 25.8 million (US$32 million
equivalent) was made to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma in March
1981V The project was co-financed by a grant from the Government of Finland
(US$2 million).  The credit closing date was extended from March 31, 1986 to
September 30, 1988. The last disbursement was made in February 1989 and the
undisbursed credit balance of SDR 1,339,268.90 (5.2% of the credit amount) was
cancelled in June 1989.
This Preface, tha Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR are
based on a report by a FAO/CP mission, after a visit to Myanmar in Janiuary 1990
and a review of IDA records. The Borrower has not commented on these sections
in a separate Part II, and the co-financier has indicated that it has no
comments.
v As of June 18, 1989 the name has been changed to Union of Myanmar.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
(Cr.1114-BA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        Appraised in 1980, the Wood Industries I Project was the first in a
series of projects GOM wished to undertake to improve the wood processing
industry so as to increase local value added to its teak resources. The main
objectives of the project were to: (i) improve efficiency and product quality
of the export-oriented teak processing industries; (ii) advance technical and
export marketing skills of the teak processing industry personnel; and (iii)
expand exports through further processing of a larger portion of the lower grades
of teak (para. 3.1).
Implementation Experience
2.        Project  implementation was  somewhat  slower  than  anticipated  at
appraisal largely due to delays at start-up which arose for reasons that were
beyond the control of project management, i.e. for reasons such as shortages of
cement or delays in providing power to the new installations. The project unit
(PU) within the Timber Corporation (TC, now Myanma Timber Enterprise - MTE) was
constrained in that it had, for example, no control over log supply, foreign
exchange for the import of production inputs (particularly glue for plywood
processing), or project staffing. The credit closing, originally scheduled for
March 1986, was extended twice to September 1988 (para. 5.1).
Results
3.        Project objectives were only partially achieved.   Measured by the
input/output ratio of teak sawmill No. 1 where the project replaced obsolete
equipment, wood recovery increased from 27Z to 34X (para. 6.1). However, the
production of teak sawnwood generally increased much less than anticipated at
appraisal because of log supply constraints and because both project sawmills
have been working on only a one-shift basis instead of two, as covenanted in the
Credit Agreement (para. 6.4).   The expected increase in the export of teak
downstream processing products, including teak sawnwood, plywood and veneer did
not happen, largely due to shortages of raw materials.   For furniture and
joinery, and flooring products, the major constraints were poor design, obsolete
production technique, lack of up-to-date market information and of auxiliary
production materials, as well as staff shortages (para. 6.2). As a result, the
economic rate of return at completion is estimated to be negative. (Part III
Chapter 6 B).



- iv -
Sustainability
4.        The potential economic benefits of the project investments will not be
realized until impediments preventing full utilization are removed. The new teak
mills, which represented half of total project costs, were designed to be
operated with two shifts and the investment was justified on this basis.
Furthermore, IDA supported the investments on the assumption that the new mills
would replace older, less efficient mills, but MTE continues to maintain the
older teak mills and ration the limited log supply among all mills (para. 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.        Given the poor state of the country's sawmills, the decision to
concentrate financial assistance on improving sawmilling capacity was appropriate
(para. 8.1). In retrospect, however, because export prices for teak logs and
sawn non-teak hardwood hav': been higher than world market prices for sawn teak
and non-teak hardwood logs, modernization and rehabilitation of hardwood (v.
teak) mills would have had relatively higher returns. Also, the risk analysis
at appraisal did not consider the case that old mills would continue to operatf
and compete for logs, that aiew mills would be operated at only one shift, and
that the shortage of foreign exchange might constrain the regular supply of
auxiliary inputs, such as glue, which have to be imported (para. 8.2). As it
turned out log supply to the new mills was not satisfactory, partly due to excess
sawmilling capacity in Yangon emerging from MTE's reluctance to close old mills
as agreed at appraisal. A main lesson which emergr.3 is that if the viability of
a project depends largely on the closing of existing outdated facilities, then
the Government must be fully committed to this and the ministry concerned must
have the authority to take such facilities out of production (para. 8.4).
Finally, individual projects are not likely to succeed in improving substantially
the efficiency of state enterprises like MTE, unless project management is
accorded a high degree of autonomy and commercial principles are applied (para.
9.3)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
(Cr. 1114-BA)
PART I
1.        Project Identity
Project Name                        Wood Industries I Project
Credit No.                           1114-BA
RVP Unit                            AS2AG
Country                             Myanmar
Sector                              Agriculture
Sub-sector                          Forest and Forest Industries
2.        Background
2.1.      Myanmar is well-endowed with forest resources.  Climate and topography
together have contributed both to a rich variety of forest species and to a river
system providing good access for timber extraction.   Teak and a few other
valuable hardwood species have historically formed the major part of the forest
output. While forestry activities represent only a small share of GDP (less than
3Z at project appraisal in June 1980), the sector is important in the export
trade where it traditionally has been the second largest foreign exchange earner.
In addition, the sector is an important source of funds for the national budget
and in FY 78/79 made a net contribution of about %600 million (14% of the total)
to public sector resources in the form of royalties, taxes and duties.  All
forests and most forest-based industries are owned and controlled by Government.
The Forest Department (FD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) is
primarily responsible for the management of all forest land. The Myanma Timber
Enterprise (MTE), formerly known as Timber Corporation (TC), a State Economic
Enterprise (SEE) under MAF, continues to be responsible for all teak sawmilling,
veneer and hardwood manufacturing and marketing of wood products.
2.2.      In the early seventies, IDA economic and sector missions confirmed the
high priority of the forestry sector for the country's economic development and
identified log extraction capacity as the major problem.   Timber extraction
reached a peak of 2.3 million m3 in 1972/73 and after that declined to a low of
1.8 million m3 in 1975/76 due to a shortage of extraction equipment and fuel.
With the help of the IDA-assisted Forestry I and II Projects and the ADB-assisted
Sagaing Forestry Project which provided support in the form of new equipment and
technical assistance, the decline was reversed and about 2.8 million m3 of teak



-2-
and other hardwoods were extracted in 1979/80.   Having established a log
extraction programme on a sound footing, Government strategy then focused on
improving processing of forest products and in mid-1979 Government submitted to
IDA a request for financing of a project aimed at technical updating of existing
forest industries and the establishment of additional and new forest industries.
3.        Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1.      The Wood Industries I Project was conceived as the first in a series
of projects that GOM wished to undertake to improve the efficiency of the wood
processing industry and to increase the local value added to its valuable teak
resources.   The main objectives of the project were to: (i) improve the
efficiency and product quality of the export-orientated teak processing
industries through modernizationk and rehabilitation of the existing capacity;
(ii) advance technical and export marketing skills of teak processing industry
personnel through training and technical assistance; and (iii) export through
further processing of a larger proportion of the lower grades of teak which at
the time could not be exported and were therefore sold on the local market at
relatively low prices.   The project did not aim at the achievement of any
specific production targets.
3.2.      The project was to be located mainly in Yangon (formerly known as
Rangoon), to involve facilities owned by TC and to be implemented over four
years. Its major components were:
(a) reconstruction and modernization of two sawmills with a total of about
105,000 H tons per annum teak sawmilling capacity;
(b) rehabilitation of two plywood and veneer mills;
(c) expansion of flooring component production by about 144,000 m2 per
annum;
(d) rehabilitation and modernization of the existing furniture factory;
(e) improvement of log storage and handling;
(f) construction of a central workshop;
(g)  strengthening   of   administrative,   marketing,   monitoring   and
construction facilities;
(h) training; and
(i) technical assistance.
3.3.      The total project cost was estimated to be US$64 million (K422 million)
of which US$18 million (K120 million) would be in duties and taxes, and US$32
million (K213 million) in foreign exchange. The IDA credit of SDR 25.8 million
(US$32 million equivalent) was to finance foreign exchange costs of
US$29.0 million equivalent and about US$3.0 million equivalent of local costs
excluding duties and taxes.   The Finnish International Development Agency



- 3 -
(FINNIDA) was to provide, on a grant basis, the technical assistance and training
component costing about US$2.0 million equivalent in foreign exchange.  TC was
to financa US$28.6 million equivalent of local costs and US$1.3 million of
foreign exchange costs for the equipment and materials reserved for procu:ement
under  local  procedures.    Project  implementation  was  to  be  through  a
semi-autonomous project unit w'thin TC.
4.        Project Design and Organization
4.1.      The Wood Industries I project evolved from the Government's strategy
for the forest and forest industries sector which emphasized higher export
earnings through better utilization of the country's natural resources. Based
on the experience and knowledge of the sector gained through GOM and IDA
cooperation in Forestry I and II projects which both had helped GOM expand
hardwood (mainly teak) log extraction and exports, it was agreed that the third
IDA-assisted forestry project should be a forest industries project. Most of its
components would address sectoral constraints identified in the Forest
Feasibility Studies of 1978 financed by IDA under the Forestry I Project
(Cr.493-BA).
4.2.      The project was prepared by TC under thA guidance of FAO/CP.  The
appraisal mission found the proposal overly ambitious and therefore recommended
splitting the project proposed by TC into two parts, the first for rehabilitation
and reconstruction of selected teak sawmills, the furniture factory in Yangon and
of plywood factories in Yangon and Swa; and the se .id for construction of new
forest industries consisting of sawmills, plywood/veneer plants and, possibly,
a particle board plant.  All relevant parties agreed that the first project
should be further reduced in scope to reconstruction of only two teak sawmills
instead of renovating all teak mills that had been originally selected in order
to reduce market and implementation risks.
4.3.      The choice of a semi-autonomous project unit  (PU) within TC to
implement the project was based on past successful practice in IDA-assisted
projects that were largely for log extraction. As it turned out, the degree of
autonomy of PU may have been sufficient for a forestry project. But with Wood
Industries I, IDA entered into a different category of projects which required
a more independent management. Although PU was managed by a high level officer
from TC with direct access to the Managing Director, it was constrained in that
it had no control ever log supply, no control over foreign exchange for the
import of auxiliary inputs (particularly glue for plywood processing), and no
control over project staffing.   This adversely affected not only project
implementation but also project results.
5.        Project Implementation
5.1.      Considering  the  system-inherent  constraints  of  a  largely  state
controlled sector, the problems encountered during the execution of project works
were to be expected. The most critical variances between planrned and actual
implementation were delays at start-up which arose for reasons that were beyond
the control of PU, e.g. shortage of cement, delays in prcviding electric power
to the new installations, allocation of staff. The credit closing was originally



-4-
scheduled for March 31, 1SF6 but the project was extended twice and the closing
date was only in September 1988.
5.2.      Reconstruction and modernization of teak sawmills.  The new sawmill
No. 1 was installed at the same site as the old one at Kemmendine, with an input
capacity of 45,000 H tons (81, :5 m3 r). There was a delay of six months for
dismantling the old and inefficient machinery, due to lack of coordination
between TC and the Construction Company (CC) of the Ministry of Construction. The
proposed extension for milling short logs and square ends - using part of the
rehabilitated existing machinery and only the conveying and handling equipment
proposed under the project - was not realized as a se?arate production unit.
Nevertheless, some old and rehabilitated machines were installed for additional
wood recovery, sawing close to the new mill; part of the excess workforce of the
mill was employed at this facility.
5.3.      Sawmill No. 10 was installed at Syriam, after a delay in site selection
and )reparation of more than one year. Further delay was caused by late power
supply through the Electric Power Company (EPC). Reflecting the Government's
policy of building new mills outside the capital's urban area, this mill is
located at a newly selected industrial development area on the right bank at the
mouth of the Yangon river. However, infrastructure in the area is still poorly
developed and, therefore, only about 100 worker families are living in the newly
constructed quarters around the mill; the remaining 500 workers cross the river
daily ,y an MTE-owned ferryboat. A bridge is under construction at a distance
of some 5 km up-river, which will ease the transport constraints in the near
future. The log storage buffer at the mill's river bank takes only a sawing
volume for one 8-hour shift, leaving the remainder of the log stock, if any,
floating in raft form in the river stream. This situation becomes critical,
particularly when the mill is operated on a double shift, when non-floating
hardwoods are sawn and during stormy weather conditions. Of the four godowns
envisaged for air conditioning and storage of conversions, only one has been
constructed up to now, another is under construction and two more are to be
constructed in the near future.
5.4.      Both sawmills are very well-equipped with efficient sawmilling and saw
maintenance machinery, which would allow not only a 25Z to 30Z higher than
designed throughput capacity but also heavy non-teak hardwoo; sawmilling in one
or both daily shifts, alone or mixed with teak sawmilling; future consideration
of the latter seems to be vAry important in view of declining teak sawmilling in
the country and of the need to explore means of improving the sustainability of
the project.
5.5.      Rehabilitation of plywood mill No. 2.  The existing plywood mill No.
2 has been upgraded through the provision of new machinery for reeling/unreeling,
clipping, slicing and splicing, and associated equipment. This equipment is in
use except for the veneer splicer which lacks a spare part for the glue heating
device. However, contrary to the SAR, cnly one rotary peeler and veneer slicer
instead of two each have been installed; both head machines are, however,
outdated and inefficient in performance and not suitable for manufacturing of
quality veneers. The lathe works but without a necessary log centering device
and hence peeling cores are usually ejected with a diameter of 20 cm and more.



- 5 -
This fact, in addition to the supply of long-stored and low quality peeler logs,
explains the extremely low wood recovery of 20% in the mill's operation. As
foreseen at appraisal, a band-saw for flitch production has been installed at the
same mill site to provide flitches for _he veneer slicing machines. However, the
veneer slicer produced only 2 m3 of sliced veneer in FY 1989/90, after a peak
production of 34 m3 in FY 1987/88. By international standards, a veneer slicer
should produce about 1,500 m3 per year with one 8-hour daily shift.
5.6.      Rehabilitation of plvwood mill No. 3. This mill is located at Swa some
100 km northeast of Yangon.   According to information provided by MTE, the
proposed  new  equipment  for technical updating was  duly  installed.    The
input/output data of the mill present a very similar picture to those of plywood
mill No. 2.
5.7.      Flooring products expansion.   The machinery and equipment has been
installed properly.   The new steam generating plant and the expanded timber
drying facilities have contributed significantly to the higher production of
flooring products. Incremental production in flooring products has been mostly
achieved by lam-parquet (57'l of actual revenues) and parquet -iles (33%), whereas
the mosaic parquet line (10%) is under-utilized; however, the latter is not a
technical problem but seems to be a marketing issue. The parquet fingers are
sold loosely instead of being assembled to parquet wafers or plates - held
together by a wide mesh plastic fabric for easy installation of the flooring. A
further major constraint in project implementation in general, and especially in
this component, was the shortage of labos..  The required number of workers,
requested by PU in 1986, was only allocated in early 1990.
5.8.      Furniture and jioinery. Old and inefficient machinery has been replaced
as irntended and the buildings have been renovated. Through the installation of
the new steam plant and the expansion of the timber drying capacity, furniture
and joinery production has reached at least part of its incremental production
target togethe- with the flooring products component of the project. However,
export quality production is still very low due to lack of access to up-to-date
market information, few attractive furniture designs and poor production
techniques (use of jigs and other tools). The same is true of the production of
doors and windows which are made in heavy, and therefore expensive, teak framlng
and inaccurately joined for international quality standards. However, the ffrst
joint venture agreement - a so called buy-back operation - has recently started
with a Japanese furniture importer who provided, apart from machinery and
equipment on a buyer's credit basis, furniture design and an expatriate
technician for export quality control.
5.9.      Log storage and handling.  The proposed equipment for improving log
handling and reducing log losses at storage areas on the Yangon riverbanks was
purchased with the exception of an offshore pile driver. Two towing launches
instead of one and one additional landing-Z-craft were also bought. The proposed
pilot project to study alternative methods for reducing log quality losses in
storage was not undertaken. The main reason for these variances seems to be the
dwindling teak log supply and the consequently reduced storage volume of teak
logs at the riverbanks in the Yangon area. Teak log arrivals in FY 1986/87 were
25% less than in FY 1981/82.



-6-
5.10.     Administrative support and construction equipment.  The project unit,
established at the beginning of the project as planned, was initially staffed
with personnel on loan from other departments of TC and with temporary staff.
Throughout implementation it suffered from the fact that it could not hire
permanent staff until incremental staff positions had been approved by Cabinet.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry had to wait for Ministry of Planning and
Finance (MOPF) approval, which is required prior to requesting Cabinet approval.
5.11.     Civil works were to be carried out using construction equipment
purchased under the project and in conjunction with CC, the construction arm of
the Government. However, responsibilities between the parastal institutions were
not sufficiently defined and variances between the SAR proposal and actual
purchase of construction equipment are large. Total cost overrun of civil works
is about 40% which is partially explained by the unforeseen additional costs for
piling (91 piles) needed for the foundation of sawmill No. 1 and the grossly
under-estimated costs of steel structure for both new sawmills. The cost of the
latter amounts to almost 50% of total sawmill and 30% of civil work costs. As
a result, actual sawmill construction costs doubled in comparison with estimates
at project appraisal which were based on a flat or ground floor type sawmill
construction with wooden building structure rather than on a platform or
three-storey type with an extremely expensive steel structure.
6.        Prolect Results
6.1.      Project objectives were only partially achieved.   Measured by the
input/output ratio of sawmill No. 1 - where the obsolete and inefficient
equilment had been replaced by new equipment under the project - the wood
recovery increased by 9 hoppus points from 34 at SAR to 43 hoppus points at PCR,
or from 27% to 34% of true recovery respectively. Thus, the gain of 5 hoppus
points assumed at appraisal - standing 2 hoppus points for the reduction of
oversized allowances and 3 hoppus points for the reduction of sawdust losses by
smaller sawing kerfs through band-sawing rather than circular sawing -has been
largely achieved. However, overall wood recovery in all MTE's teak sawmills fell
from 42.8 to 40 hoppus points during the project period, largely because of
decreasing quality and diameter of logs delivered to the old mills including
those not shut down after establishment of the two new project mills.
6.2.      The expected increase in the export of teak downstream processing
products - teak sawnwood, plywood and teak veneer - has not been achieved largely
due to shortages of raw materials. For furniture, joinery and flooring products
the major constraints were poor design, obsolete production techniques, lack of
up-to-date market information and of auxiliary materials, as well as shortage of
staff. The export share in conversions generated by the new sawmills, however,
amounts to almost 80% of their total production at PCR against only 60% in the
old sawmill No. 1 at appraisal. This increase can be attributed to the better
sawing quality achieved through the sawmill modernization under the project.
6.3.      Regarding sawmilling and plywood making, the output of the project
mills did not increase as envisaged at appraisal.   Teak veneer production
decreased.   By contrast, the production of furniture, joinery and flooring
products showed a significant increase during project implementation.



-7-
6.4.      The gross  production  of  teak  sawnwood - both export and local
grade - increased less than anticipated at appraisal because both new project
sawmills were working only one 8-hour shift instead of two 8-hour shifts per day
as agreed at appraisal. This variance is partially explained by the fact that
the proposed phasing out of six of the old and inefficient sawmills did not take
place during project implementation. Another reason for the disappointing teak
sawnwood production was the limited sawlog supply to the project mills. Between
1982/83 and 1988/89, log exports increased from 109,000 m3 r to 256,000 m3 r.
During the same period, export of teak conversion dropped from 81,000 m3 s to
33,000 m3 s or by 60%.   The project sawmills continue to operate only on a
reduced capacity utilization which is also reflected in the falling incremental
production figu.es. The capacity of the proposed, but not constructed, extension
mill of sawmill No. 1 of 15,000 H tons throughput has been more than compensated
by the higher throughput capacity of the two new main sawmills.   Firewood
production has not been recorded by MTE.
6.5.      The output of the project's plywood mills stagnated during the project
implementation period.   This was due to reduced hardwood log supply, caused
mainly by higher non-teak hardwood log exports which increased from 87,000 m3 r
in 1982/83 to 185,000 m3 r in 1989/89.   Moreover, the logs supplied to the
plywood mills were of very low quality. This resulted from long storage under
open-air conditions which caused considerable damage by cracking, fungus attack
and discoloring. The poor quality of the peeler logs in conjunction with the
peeling problem reduced the out-turn of plywood mill No. 2 to 50% of normal,
rendering only 20% instead of 40% recovery, which would be achieved by using
green or fresh felled peeler logs and by applying improved processing technology
of international standard.
6.6.      The stagnating plywood production in the project mills  is also
explained by the chronic shortage of glue and hardener supply in the country.
The gluing material for plywood making in Myanmar - some 1,000 MT glue and 100 MT
hardener for one daily shift production per year - has to be entirely imported
since a local pilot glue production plant (550 MT annual capacity) installed
about ten years ago on the premises of plywood mill No. 1, has never produced
glue on an industrial scale. The main reason is the nonavailability and low
quality of locally produced components, in particular formaldehyde which contains
up to 40% of methanol instead of the maximum of 15% required for acceptable glue
quality. The project mills would need about 500 MT/year of glue for a one shift
production at full rated capacity of 8,000 m3 of plywood, or 3,000 sheets per
workinS day for both mills, as estimated at appraisal.   This would fit well
within the rated capacity of the idle glue plant.
6.7.      The extremely low teak veneer production at the project mills is
closely related to the reasons indicated above. It is MTE's policy to sell high
quality veneer logs on the world market rather than process them on their own
slicer machines. Teak veneer manufacturers abroad use a sophisticated technology
of slicing flitches down to a thickness of 0.22 mm producing theoretically
5,000 m2 of veneer out of one m3 of flitches.  This compares with a rated output
of 1,500 m2 with a minimum thickness of 0.6 mm by the project mills which only
produce the veneers for their outturn of teak-faced plywood.



- 8-
7.        Prolect Sustainability
7.1.      The contribution of project investments to the modernization of
Mynamar's wood industry could be significant.   However, their full economic
benefits will not be realized until and unless impediments preventing their full
utilization are removed. The new teak sawmills which represented half of total
project costs were designed to be operated with two shifts and the investment was
justified on this basis. Furthermore, IDA suggested these investments on the
assumption that the new mills would replace less efficient old mills in order to
increase productivity of teak sawmilling and to improve the quality of end
products resulting in higher economic returns to the nation. At present, the new
mills are operated only during one shift and treated the same way as old
inefficient mills in allocating logs, both in terms of quantity and quality. MTE
crntinues to follow a policy that is to maintain old teak mills and distribute
the existing log supply among all mills. Because of this policy, it has not been
possible until now to supply the project-financed mills with enough logs to run
on a two-shift basis. Unless TC takes action to reduce log supplies to the old
mills and direct them to the new mills, this will continue to be the case. The
main conditions for project sustainability can be summarized as follows:
(a) raw material supply to the primary processing plants to be adequate in
volume and quality;
(b) the obsolete and inefficient old teak sawmills to be closed and new
mills to be run partially or fully with non-teak hardwood;
(c) availability of foreign exchange for imports of production materials
such as glue and hardener for plywood making and plastic fabrics for
mosaic parquet;
(d) promotion of joint-venture/buy-back agreements in order to overcome
constraints in: the supply of raw materials to the mills, the access
to and provision of up-to-date market information, the provision of
required production techniques and design and export quality control.
8.        IDA Performance
8.1.      IDA financing enabled Government to improve the efficiency of part of
the wood processing industry and to address the sub-sector's technical and
marketing constraints. Given the poor state of the country's old sawmills, IDA's
decision to concentrate assistance on sawmilling where capital investments would
be most beneficial, was appropriate. The project was the first major operation
in the wood industries sector involving a substantial technology transfer through
the modernization of sawmills, plywood mills, veneer manufacture and furniture
industries.   To include technical assistance,  along with training, as an
important component was therefore fully justified.  By reducing the original
project scope during appraisal, market implementation risks were reduced.
8.2.      The risk analysis at appraisal did not consider the case that the old
mills would continue to operate and compete for logs, that new mills would be
operated at only one shift and that the shortage of foreign exchange might



-9-
constrain the regular supply with auxiliary inputs such as glue. Also, because
of the high export prices for teak logs and for sawn non-teak hardwood timber,
but comparatively unattractive world market prices for sawn teak and non-teak
hardwood logs, modernization and rehabilitation of hardwood (v. teak) mills would
have been more profitable. In retrospect, it appears that the project appraisal
was over-optimistic concerning the benefits to be generated by the project's
capital investments. Also, while IDA was certainly aware of marketing aspects
and domestic policy constraints, it did not fully take into account the impact
which these would have on the project. As it turned out, the SAR statement that
"the project would phase out six of these inefficient mills... and replace them
with two modern sawmills of equivalent capacity" (SAR para 3.03) should have been
supported by a corresponding covenant in the Credit Agreement.
8.3.      IDA carried out 13 supervision missions.  Staff continuity was good but
supervision could have benefitted from more technical expertise in wood
processing and marketing. Supervision was helpful in identifying deficiencies
in implementation and requesting GOM for remedies.  IDA was emphatic, albeit
unsuccessful, in getting Government to close down old mills and improve the log
supply situation for project mills.
8.4.      The main  lessons which  emerge  from  implementation of the Wood
Industries I Project, which may be relevant to wood processing projects
elsewhere, relate to the following:
(a)  Before committing the Borrower to major  export-oriented  capital
investments in a sub-sector, the financial and economic viability of
such proposals should be realistically assessed. If the viability of
a project depends largely on the closure of existing facilities, the
Government must be fully committed to such a measure and the project
management must have sufficient authority actually to take the
facilities out of production.
(b)  The management of a project, particularly when a state enterprise is
involved,  is likely  to  face  difficulties  if  it cannot  operate
according to commercial principles because of Government-imposed
restrictions. PU had, for example, no control over the log supply to
the project-financed sawmills.
(c)  Project monitoring systems must be properly designed during project
preparation and provisions for their introduction and operation must
be spelled out in the appraisal report. Project staff as well as IDA
staff carrying out supervision ought to have a clear understanding of
monitoring requirements.
(d)  Prior to project implementation, assurances should be obtained from
Government to provide electric power and procure equipment and
construction material of appropriate quality and quantity to undertake
civil works in a timely manner.



- 10 -
9.        Borrower Performance
9.1.      TC played the leading role in preparing the project in collaboration
with FAO/CP and in coordinating project implementation. Project management was
of good professional standard but was constrained by lack of autonomy and by
delays in the execution of civil works, staff build-up and operation of
project-financed processing capacities which were in large part outside its
control.   Staff quality at operational level was enhanced through local and
overseas training provided under the project. TC had rightly instituted a policy
which required all overseas trainees to remain in their posting for at least two
years after returning from their training tours.
9.2.      The  Borrower  fully met  its  financial  obligations  required  for
implementation of the project but did not comply adequately with all legal
agreements:
(a)  TC, as agreed during negotiations, raised transfer prices of wood
products between TC manufacturing plants towards market values about
halfway through the project.   Sales prices of teak furniture and
flooring products, however, have not been revised to reflect the new
transfer prices and, as a result, continue to be below the export
value of sawn teak wood.   This is a major reason why furniture
factories record operating losses.
(b)  The Borrower was to ensure that the project mills were operated at
least on a two shift basis, but, up to now, TC has been reluctant to
adopt two shift operations because of its policy of favoring exports
in log form rather than in sawnwood.   Although the two sawmills
constructed under the project are fully operational, TC has taken no
action and has no concrete plans to run the mills on two shifts as
covenanted in Section 3.09 of the Credit Agreement.
(a)  Log supply to the new mills is not satisfactory partly due to excess
sawmilling capacity in Yangon emerging from TC reluctance to close old
mills, as we understood at appraisal.
9.3.      The main lc.  ns of experience for the Borrower relevant to future
projects in specific sub-sectors of the economics can be summarized as follows:
(a)  Improving the efficiency of a sub-sector through individual projects
requires not only a high degree of autonomy in project management but
also the application of commercial principles.
(b)  The introduction of capit&a.-intersive technology into a sub-sector can
only be successful if the require. ents for a viable operation are met.
These include, first of all, an assured supply of raw materials and of
auxiliary inputs, sufficient labor and trained staff as well as
remunerative output prices. Local prices for wood products that are
set by Government should reflect opportunity costs.



- 11 -
(c)  In order to avoid unnecessary delays in civil works at project start,
building sites should be selected during project preparation and the
availability of construction material, both local and imported, must
be assured.
10.    j Project Relationship
10.1.     Based on the appraisal of the project by IDA, GOLM entered into a
Development Credit Agreement with the Association as of March 1981, through which
the Association agreed to provide a credit of SDR 25.8 million (Cr.1114-BA)
equivalent to US$32 million.   No major problems were encountered in the
relationship between IDA and the Borrower, and between them and the participating
agencies in the project.
10.2.     During the preparation of the project, the Government of Finland
expressed its interest in cofinancing the project with the Association.   A
FINNIDA consultant participated in the Association's team in appraising the
project in June 1980. Subsequently, FINNIDA indicated its intention to cofinance
the technical assistance and training components of the project (about US$2.0
million equivalent). Acting as a representative of the Government of Finland,
FINNIDA participated in the negotiations during discussions relating to the
technical assistance and training components.   It was agreed that the Grant
Agreement between the Government of Finland and the Government of Myanmar, as
well as the Memorandum of Agreement between the Government of Finland and the
Association (to be accepted by the Government of Myanwar) would follow the same
pattern agreed for the Forestry II project (IDA Credit No. 949).
11.       Consulting Services
11.1.     Both external and local contractors and consultants were engaged in
carrying out the project. The performance of contractors and of the suppliers
of machinery and equipment is considered very satisfactory.   The new teak
sawmills are also suitable for non-teak hardwood milling and their rated capacity
exceeds  the one stated in the specifications.    Delays  that occurred  in
construction work were due to reasons that were outside contractors' influence.
The project's technical assistance and training programme was financed by FINNIDA
on a grant basis. It was carried out by a Finnish consulting firm specialized
in training in the field of wood processing and was considered useful.
12.       Project Documentation and Data
The Credit Agreement was quite adequate and appropriate for achieving the
project's primary objectives.  The inclusion, as a covenant, of Government's
commitment to close down old teak sawmills might have helped to avoid a situation
of overcapacity. The SAR provided a useful framework for IDA and the TC during
project implementation. Its key tables, in particular those concerning detailed
cost, proposed credit allocation and disbursement projections were used as bench-
marks during supervision. Most relevant to the Borrower was the presentation of
detailed features of the project components. Preparation of a draft PCR had been
started by PU. The project accounting system had been constantly improved during
implementation and the data relevant to preparing the PCR were readily available.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
(Cr.1114-BA)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower was requested to provide a Review, but none was received.



- 15 -
PART III
1.         Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title                                 Xppr-ovl   Status          Comments
Forestry Projoct    Extraction of teak          1974    Compl-ted )  Both projects have
(Cr.493-BA)         and other markotablo                          )  helpd Government
hardwood                                      )  expand hardwood
(mainly teak) log
Forestry II - East   Increase forest export     1979    Comploted     extraction and
Pegu Yome Project    revenues, augment supply                      )  exports.
(Cr.949-BA)         of teak and hardwood                          )
Wood Industrios II   Improvement of efficiency    1984   Ongoing
(Cr.1444-BA)        and product quality of wood
processing industries
2.         Proiect Timetable
Date                  Date               Date
Item                            Planned               Revised             Actual
Identification                   11/79                                     11/79
Preparation                      02/80                                     02/80
Appraisal                        06/80                                     06/80
Credit Negotiations                                                        02/81
Board Approval                  03/17/81                                 03/17/81
Credit Signature                                                         03/26/81
Credit Effectiveness                                                     06/25/81
Credit Closing                  03/31/86             03/31/87            09/30/88
03/31/88
Project Completion                                                       27/02/89
Comments (Issues raised at each stage of the project cycle)



- 16 -
Identification
(i)       Government Prolect Proposal. The identification mission supported TC's
proposal insofar as reconstruction/rehabilitation of selected existing industries
was concerned, but considered that establishment of additional industries was not
justified as long as production volume and quality of products produced in the
existing indust.ies was unsatisfactory. Furthermore, management cadres for new
industry would have to be trained systematically prior to embarking on the
setting up of new and additional industries. Existing sawmills with ample space
for movement and storage of sawn timber should work two shifts daily. Any action
aimed at quality and recovery improvement in existing wood products industries
located in the Yangon area and Swa would fit into a countrywide forest products
industry development plan to be worked out, whereas construction of additional
industries would require a substantial amount of studies prior to decision
making. The mission therefore proposed to Government a two-phase approach in the
development of Myanmar's forest products industries. Each phase would be of
sufficient size to request financial assistance from IDA.
(ii)      Sawmill  Rehabilitation.       The  project  proposal  included  the
reconstruction/rehabilitation of 7 teak sawmills. Equipment and support
facilities to be provided under the project would allow two shifts daily. TC
therefore was to decide prior to detailed project preparation whether sawmills
would be operated in two shifts in future or not. Should TC accept the two shift
operation concept, some of the 7 sawmills earmarked for rehabilitation/
reconstruction would not be required.
Appraisal
(i)       Project Scope. The project, prepared by GOM with the assistance of two
FAO/CP missions, was found over-ambitious and considering that the proposed
project would be the first of its kind to be implemented by TC, the four year
implementation period was found unrealistic. The justification for two of the
components - new veneer plant and log ponds - was considered weak. The mission
found TC's modified proposal acceptable and realistic.
(ii)      Markets and Prices. Markets for better quality sawn teak from Myanmar
were strong and TC had realized an average annual price increase of about 20%
over a five-year period ending 1978/79. Future price increases were expected to
be moderate, although keeping up with inflation. Most of the teak conversions
were exported (64%) and only the poorest grades of teak were sold on the local
market. The local prices were lower and considered appropriate for the lower
quality grades.   However, the internal transfer prices between different TC
factories were too low, distorting decision-making. The Managing Director of TC
agreed that prices would be reviewed and revised within three months. Otherwise,
appropriate assurances would be sought at negotiations.
(iii)     Financing Gap.  The IDA allocation for the project was US$25 million,
which was below the project foreign exchange requirement of US$33 million and
also below the previously agreed 75% project cost financing target for Myanmar.
The mission recommended that, subject to availability of funds, IDA finance 75%
of the eligible project cost. Based on project cost estimates and preliminary



- 17 -
indications of reserved procurement, an IDA credit of US$31 million was
recommended.
3.        Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursemnts
(USS m IlIon)
FY82    FY88   FY84   FY85    FY86   FY87    FY88   FY89
Appraisal Estimate t.U   19.80   29.0I   82.00
Actual                 1.09    4.68   11.80   15.66   18.61   10.95   20.31   30.84
Actual as X ot Estimate   22   24    41       49     68       62    6a        95
Date of Final Disbursement:                     February 27, 1989
Comments
The undisbursed credit balance of SDR 1.3 million/US$1.7 million (5%
of the credit amount) was cancelled in Jtne 1989.
4.        Proiect Implementation
Appraisal Estimate        PCR Estimate      Months
Indicators                    Planned Completion   Actual Completion  of Delay
1. Sawmills
Civil works construction    11182, 11/83, 11/84            03/86            16V
Installation of equipment         07/83, 08/84              12/85           16
2. Rehabilitation of
Plymills 2 and 3
Civil works construction           12/81, 12/82            03/83             3
Installation of equipment          10/82, 09/83         03/83, 12/83         3
3. Furniture Industries Dept.
Civil works construction    11/81/ 11/82, 06/83             12/83            6
Installation of equipment             03/83                 12/83            9
4. Central Workshop
Civil works construction           11/82, 11/83             01/85           14
Installation of equipment             02/84                03/85            13
I/ Caused mainly by delays in selection of site for mill No. 10.



- 18 -
5.         Project Costs and Financinz
A. Prolect Costs
Apsra: l Estimate                        Actual
Local   forol9n Exchance           Lcal   For len Exchano
Cost*      Costs       Total      Costs       Cost        Total
=      .(USffl=iton) .                      (USMOifi Ion)....
Sawlling            16.5        15.2         81.7      17.0        17.6        84.6
Furnituro & Flooring
Products            4.0         4.7          8.7       8.2         8.8         6.5
Plywood and Veneer    3.7         5.6         9.2        4.3         4.4         8.7
Central Workshop      2.6         2.1         4.6        1.8         1.4         2.7
Admin.   Monitoring   1.5         6.6         2.1        1.1         0.7         1.8
Construction Equipment   0.8      1.8         2.1        1.1         1.2         2.8
Log Storage A Handling   0.3      9.6         0.8        0.3         0.4         0.7
Technical Assistance   o.o         1.6          1.6    )
)   .6        i.8         1.8
Training               .0          0.8          0.     )
Incremental Working
Capital              2.4          O.S         2.7         _
Total Cost       81.6        82.2        63.8      28.8        809.         59.1
===    _                  a        m          =    _a
Comments
The reduction in total project cost is primarily explained by the fact
that there were no requirements for incremental working capital because the
sawmills were operated at one shift only and other project-financed facilities
also worked below capacity. The share of the sawmilling component in total
project costs increased from 50Z estimated at appraisal to 59Z due to unforeseen
cost increases in civil works (see Part I, para 5.11).



- 19 -
B. Proiect Financing
Plannd Agroement (Ce.1114-BA)                        Actusl
Local     For! tn Exchanes                Local     ForIgn Exchan
Source        Costs       -Csts          Total         Cootx         Costs        Total
* ..   .(MJS TIIIMon)                               (G  iz11lon)....
IDA            8.0          29.0          82.0         1.8           29.0         4d.a
FINNIDA         -             1.9            1.9           -              1.8
1.8
TC            21.6           1.5          29.9         27.0            -           27.0
81.6          82.2          68.8        28.8           80.8         69.1
Commenta
IDA finaicing was lower than planned because 5% of the credit (US$1.7
million) was cancelled. The reduction in total project cost led to a slightly
increased IDA share in project financing of 51%, as against the 50% originally
foreseen.



- 20 -
6.        Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal         PCR
Indicators                                            Estimate        Estimate
Incremental Product4 on:
- Teak Sawnwood - Export Grade ('000 s ton)              4.2
- Teak Sawnwood - Local Grade  ('000 s ton)               1.1
- Teak faced Plywood (million sq.ft)                     4.0            1.1
- Other Plywood (million sq.ft)                          13.9           1.4
- Teak Veneer (million sq.ft)                           21.3            0.5
- Furniture & Joinery Products ('000 pieces)           103.1             -
- Flooring Products ('000 m2)                          144.1           46.8
- Firewood ('000 s ton)                                  3.2
Comments
At appraisal, incremental production was based on an increase in
recovery by five points (3 points by smaller kerf and 2 points by less
allowances) as indicated below:
Old Mills        New Mills
Input (H tons)                     105,000           105,000
Output (s tons)                     43,000            48,300
Recovery points                       41%               46%
The increase in recovery points for the project mills was as follows:
Sawmill No. 1  -  increase from 34% to 43%;
Sawmill No. 10 -  achievement of 44%.
While the increase in recovery points was achieved, absolute production
remained below expectations because of operation of one shift only.
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return           Appraisal Estimate         PCR Estimate
(X)
Teak Sawmills                             32                   negative
Plywood Mill No. 2                        33                   negative
Plywood Mill No. 3                        29                   negative
FID                                       20                   negative
Storage and Handling                      32                      -
Total Pr)Jact                       25                   negative
== ====



- 21 -
Under lyin  AssumPtion
The benefit/cost analysis at appraisal was made in border kyats.
International prices were converted to kyats at the current exchange rate. Local
prices were converted to border kyats by means of conversion factors (CF).
Project benefits were to be derived mainly from incremental production of teak
sawnwood, teak-faced plywood and other plywood. Storage and handling benefits
would flow from a reduction in physical log losses. The CF for teak sawnwood
export grade was 1.0, that for local grade 0.98. The CF for operating costs for
sawmilling and plymills was 1.4 and 2.0 respectively; that for capital cost was
0.67 and 0.64 respectively. Project investments were to be made over four years
with full production reached by Year 8 of the project.
Comments
The benefit/cost analysis at completion follows the methodology used
at appraisal. Due to lack of data, no separate calculation was made for the
storage and handling component. The negative results of the estimates at
completion can be explained by two main factors: the build-up of quantifiable
benefits was much slower than anticipated and incremental production assumed at
appraisal was not achieved. This refers particularly to the teak sawmills which
represented almost 60Z of total project costs. The investment cost of the
sawmilling component exceeded SAR estimates by almost 1OZ.
C. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return          Appraisal Estimate         PCR Estimate
(Z)
Teak Sawmills                              21                  negative
Plymill No. 2                              22                  negative
Plymill No. 3                              14                     6
FID                                        12                  negative
Storage and Handling                       19                     -
Total Project                         16                 negative
Comments
The financial flows and returns by project component and for the
project as a whole as presented in the Attachment. They are expressed in FY 1990
constant kyats. The comments made under the above section B. Economic Impact,
apply.



- 22 -
7.          Status of Covenants
Covenant
DeveloDent Credit                                          Deadline for
Agreement                     Subiect                       Comuliance              Status
S. 1(b)              Subsidiary loan agr em nt                                  Compiled with
betwo n borrower and TC
8.02                 Borrower to retain *ngineering/         12/al/si           Complied with
management and accounting
consultants
3.06(a)              TC to establish and maintain                               Complied with
Project Unit
8.ff(b)              TC to appoint project director                             Complied with
to head Project Unit
3.07                 Borrower to furnish to IDA a                               Complied with
detailed program  for oversoas
training A implement programme
8.08(a)              TC to select a second sawmill           68/81/81           Complied with
lteo acceptable to IDA
8 .8(b)              TC to make arrangoemntm to                                 Complied with
provide fli-chos to PlymTii No.2
8.09                 Project mills to be opae-.Ad at                           Not complied
loast on a two shift bp6;v                                with
3.10                 TC to establish and "inti ti a          10/31/81          Complied with
product promotion A markating unit
8.11                 Saloe  from proj ct teaF our"lso                          ParalaIly
to local markets limited tc 20X                          complied with
of anaual production
3.12                 TC's transfer and *xport pr'ct                            Partially
levels to rise as specified                              complied with
8.18                 TC to appoint at least one              08/81/88          Complied with
engineer for *ach of the
projcct mIlln
8.14                 TC to enter Into contractual                              Complied with
agreements with Construction
Coop., draft contracts for IDA
8.16                 All aspects of civil works under                          Complied with
project coordinated by civil
works project coordinator
4.01                 Audit accounte/report due to IDA                           Partially
not later than nine months after                           complied with
end of *&ch fiscal yer
4.08                 Borrower to furnish to IDA draft                           Complied with
budget and Implementation plan
each August 81



- 23 -
8.           Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Planned           Revised              Final
.   . . . .(staff weeks)  . . . . . .
Through Appraisal                                                                106.6
Supervision                                                                       69.1
S. Mission*
SDtelail-                Performance Rating
Monthl   No. of   Staff DaYs        tiono                                      YOO,of
Mission               Year____Fer__ns   In F101d__ '        _R __r_nt__         Statusa       Trend3
Identification    11/79       2         J0          FO, WR
Preparation         2/80       4        90          EC, FO, FOE, WPR
Appraisal           6/86      4         90          EC, Fl, UMA, WPR
Appr.Follow-up    11/S8        1         0          EC
Supervision I   1.-11/81       2        14          Fl                     1           1            p
Supervision 2       6/82       2        14          Fl                     1           2            0
Supervision a      10/82       2        10          Fl, AOI                1           I            0
Supervision 4      10/88       1         7          Fl                     1           2            0
Supervision 5       2/84       1         3          AGI                    1           1            0
Supervision 6      12/84       2         8          Fl, AGI                2           1            0
Supervision 7       S/86       1         7          Ft                     1           2            T
Overall   Dev.  Proioct Avail.
Status   Im   -ct  U9e -j     is
Supervision 8      12/85       2        24          EC, FO                2         2       2         1
Supervision 9       6/86       8        57          EC, FO, WMA           a         a      2/8        1
Supervision 10   4-6/67       2         20          EC, FO                2         a       2         1
Supervision 11    12/87        1         a          EC                    2         a       2         1
Supervision 12      5/88       1         6          EC
Supervision 1a      8/89       1         a          EC                    2         a       2         1
Completion                     2                    EC, WPR
V Most supervision missions worked on soveral assignments but did not specify the tim spent on
each. Tho number of days has therefore been estimated allowing for these assignments.
21 AG! * Agro-Industries; EC * Economist; F! = Financial Analyst; FO a Forester;
FOE a Forest Engineer; WMA u Wood Marketing; WPR * Wood Processing.
I 1 a Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate probloem; 3 = Major problems.
-  1    Improving;  2 a Stationary; 8 a Doteriorating.
IV P * Political; T a Technical; 0 = Other.



- 24 -
Attachment
Table 1
MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates
MUV Index 1/                    Deflator                 Exchange Rate 2/
(1981- 100)                                                  (K to US$)
1981-82    99.83                       135.4                         7.38
1982-83    97.84                       138.1                         7.81
1983-84    95.71                       141.2                         8.01
1984-85    95.37                       141.7                         8.39
1985-86   104.20                       129.7                         8.45
1986-87   117.97                       114.6                         7.48
1987-88   127.89                       105.7                         6.79
1988-89   132.14                       102.3                         6.35
1989-90   135.16                       100.0                         6.50 31
Source: 1/ World Bank, October 1989.
2/ Average annual rates of Myanma Foreign Trade Bank as used
by PU.
3/ Estimate.



MYAMAR
tOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
SAWMILLS - FINANCIAL FLOWS AND RETURNS
(MILLIONS OF FY1990 CONSTANT KYATS)
WITH PROJECT                                    WITHOUT PROJECT
OPERATING     CAPITAL    HEI                    OPERATING     CAPITAL   HI
MEi            COST        mmC                    REFN3UE       COSTS        COSTS            INCREMENTAL
1         28.7         34.3          9.8       (15.2)       28.7        34.3         4.7    (10.3)        (4.9)
2         36.7         42.3         28.5      (32.1)        38.7        42.3          6.2    (10.8)      (21.3)
3         42.8         48.7        206.6    (210.9)         42.8        48.7          6.9    (11.8)    (199.1)
4         42.8         41.7         85.7      (84.6)        42.8        41.7         6.5       (5.4)     (79.2)
6         42.3         34.0         41.1      (32.8)        39.2        38.1          -        1.1       (33.9)
6         71.1         68.4           9.5        3.2        34.6        33.7          -        0.9         2.3
7         59.6         47.4         15.3        (3.1)       31.9        31.1          -        0.8        (3.9)
8         48.9         48.3           1.0      (0.4)        30.9        30.1          0.4      0.4       (0.0)
9         102.2        78.9           -        23.3         30.9        29.4          -        1.6       22.6
10        102.2         78.9           -        23.3         30.9        29.4          -        1.6       22.6
11        102.2         78.9           -        23.3         30.9        29.4          -        1.6       22.6
12        102.2         78.9           -        23.3         30.9        29.4          -        1.5       22.6
13        102.2         78.9          7.9       16.4         28.7        27.8         0.4       0.7       14.7
14        102.2         78.9           -        23.3         27.3        26.2          -        1.1       22.2
15        102.2         78.9           -        23.3         25.9        24.9          -        1.0       22.3                          t'
18        102.2         78.9           -        23.3         24.6        23.7          -        0.9       22.4
17        102.2         78.9           -        23.3         23.4        22.5          -        0.9       22.4
18        102.2         78.9          7.9       15.4         22.2        21.4         0.4       0.4       15.0
19        102.2         78.9           -        23.3         21.1        20.3          -        0.8       22.5
20        102.2         78.9        (39.4)      82.7         20.0        19.3         (2.2)     2.9       69.8
Financial Rate of Return: Negative
iW



MYANIMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
PLYMILL 2 - FINANCIAL FLOWS AND RETURNS
(MILLIONS OF FY1990 CONSTANT KYATS)
WITH PROJECT                                     WITHOUT PROJECT
OPERATING   CAPITAL      N                        OPERATING    CAPITAL       I
XEMR       RV            COSTS       COSTS                    REVENUE       COSTS       CS                 INCREMENTAL
1          12.3          10.4       3.0         (1.1)          12.3         10.4        0.1      1.8         (2.9)
2           9.4            8.8     18.1        (17.5)          11.3          9.5        O.1      1.7        (19.2)
3           11.6         16.4      22.5        (21.3)          10.4          8.8        0.1      1.5        (22.8)
4           14.2         12.0        4.1        (1.9)           9.5          7.9        0.6      1.6         (3.4)
S            8.7           8.2       1.3        (0.8)           7.9          6.5        6.1      1.3         (2.1)
6            8.3           7.3       1.4        (0.4)           6.3          6.2        6.1      0.0         (0.4)
7           2.2            3.8      0.2         (1.8)           6.1          5.7        0.1      0.3         (2.1)
8           16.1          9.2       0.2          0.7            6.8          5.6        6.1      0.0          0.7
9           18.0         13.6        -           2.4            5.6          5.5        6.1      0.0          2.4
10          16.6          13.6        -           2.4            6.6          5.5        6.1      6.0          2.4
11          16.0          13.6        -           2.4            5.6          5.6        0.1      0.0          2.4
12          16.6          13.6        -           2.4            6.6          5.6        6.1      0.0          2.4
13          16.0          13.6       1.6          1.4            6.6          5.6        6.1      0.0          1.4
14          16.6          13.6        -           2.4            5.6          5.5        6.1      6.6          2.4
1S          16.6          18.6        -           2.4            5.6          5.6        6.1      6.6          2.4
16          16.6          13.6        -           2.4            6.6          6.5        O.1      6.6          2.4
17          16.6          13.6        -           2.4            5.6          6.5        6.1      6.6          2.4
18          16.6          13.6       1.6          1.4            5.6          6.5        O.1      6.6          1.4
19          16.6          13.6        -           2.4            5.6          6.5        6.1      0.6          2.4
20          16.0          13.6      (5.1)         7.6            5.6          5.6        6.1      0.0          7.5
Financial Rote of Return: Neative
~rt
V rt
ft



MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
pLymiLL a - FINANCIAL FLOWS AND RETURNS
(MILLIONS OF Fyl9U CONSTANT KYATS)
WITH PROJECT                                    WITHOUT PROJECT
OPERATING   CAPITAL      HiU                     OPRATINC   CAEIIAL PiI
RCOSTSLfam CSW&E                                Oml    Ei FLOW    INCREMENTIAL
1          14.2          11.0      3.0          9.2           14.2        11.0        0.0      3.2         (3.0)
2          14.6          12.6      18.2       (16.3)          13.3        10.4        0.3      2.6        (18.9)
3          16.4          12.3      22.3       (19.2)          12.3         9.9        0.0      2.4        (21.6)
4          24.2          18.8       4.3         1.1           11.1         9.2        9.1      1.8         (0.7)
5          19.1          16.0       1.3         1.8            9.1         7.8        0.1      1.2          0.6
6           7.4           6.0        -          1.4            7.3         8.3        0.1      0.9          6.5
7           1.5           3.6      0.2         (2.3)           6.8         6.6        0.1      0.9         (3.2)
8           9.6           8.6      0.2          0.8            6.6          6         0.1      0.8         0.0
9          20.6          12.7       -           7.8            6.6         5.6        0.1      0.8          7.0
10          20.6          12.7       -           7.8           6.6          6.6        0.1      0.8          7.0
11          20.5          12.7       -           7.8            6.6         6.6        0.1      0.8          7.0
12          20.6          12.7       -           7.8            6.6         6.6        0.1      0.8          7.0
13          20.5          12.7      1.0          6.8            6.5         5.6        0.1      0.8         6.0
14          20.6          12.7       -           7.8            6.5         5.6        0.1      6.8         7.0
15          20.6          12.7       -           7.8            6.6         6.6        0.1      9.8          7.0
16          20.6          12.7       -           7.8            6           5.6        0.1      0.8         7.0 6N
17          20.6          12.7       -           7.8            6.5         6.6        0.1      0.8         7.0
18          20.5          12.7       1.O         6.8            6.5         5.6        0.1      0.8         6.0
19          20.5          12.7       -           7.8            6.5         6.6        0.1      0.8          7.0
20          20.5          12.7      (5.0)       12.8            6.6         6.6        0.1      0.8         12.0
Financial Rate of Return: OX
013
Ort
rt
m 
-rI



WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
FID - FINANCIAL FLOWS AND RETURNS
(MILLIONS OF FY190 CONSTANT KYATS)
WITHl PRO]JECT                                   WITHOUT PROJECT
OEAP ING    CAPITAL      MEI                      OPERATING   CAPITAL    HiU
YEUR      I3oafSRSVEEE cm              fS       ELW RUEMN                   Cm          COSTS     ELW      DCFWMENL
1           14.8         13.5       9.1          (8.0)         14.6         13.5        0.1      1.0          (7.0)
2           13.5          13.7      37.1        (37.3)          14.9        13.8        0.1      1.0         (36.3)
3           15.9          17.9      18.6        (20.6)         1S.2         14.1        0.1      1.0        (19.6)
4           14.9          16.9       6.8         (8.8)          15.3        14.2        9.1      1.0          (7.8)
5            9.6          11.7       1.2         (3.3)         14.0         13.0        0.1      0.9          (2.4)
6           11.8          13.5       2.1         (3.8)          12.4        11.5        0.1      0.8         (3.0)
7           11.2          13.8       0.2         (2.8)         11.4         10.6        0.1      0.7         (2.1)
8           13.4          15.2        -          (1.8)          11.0        10.2        0.1      0.7          (1.1)
9           21.0          19.9        -           1.1          11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          0.4
10          21.0          19.9         -           1.1          11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          0.4
11          21.0           19.9        -           1.1           11.0        10.2        0.1      0.7          0.4
12          21.0           19.9        -           '.1          11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          0.4
13          21.0          19.9        1.5         (0.4)         11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          (1.1)
14          21.0           19.9       -           1.1           11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          9.4
15          21.0          19.9         -          1.1           11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          0.4
18          21.0           19.9        -           1.1          11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          0.4                   co
17          21.0          19.9        -           1.1           11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          0.4
18           21.0          19.9       1.5        (0.4)          11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          (1.1)
19          21.0          19.9        -           1.1           11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          1.1
20           21.0          19.9      (7.5)        8.6           11.0         10.2        0.1      0.7          7.9
Financial Rate of Return: Negative



MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
PROJECT - FINANCIAL FLOWS AND RETURNS
(MILLIONS OF FY1990 CONSTANT KYATS)
WITH PROlJECT                                     WITHOUT PROJECT
OPRAhTING   CAPTL         F                       OPERATING    ,eAITAL    mEI
YE*AR      RFVENE         am          COSTS       ELOW         REVENUE       gm           COSTS    ELOW      INCREMENTAn
1           69.8          69.2      25.9        (25.3)          69.8         89.2        4.9      (4-3)       (21.0)
2           75.6          77.7     124.6       (126.8)          76.2         76.0         5.4     (5.2)      (121.6)
a           87.1          89.6     281.2       (283.7)          80.7         81.6        6.1    (6.9)        (276.8)
4           97.5          89.8     116.3       (108.8)          78.7         73.0         6.7     (1.0)      (107.6)
5           81.3          70.3      69.8        (48.8)          70.2         66.4        0.3       4.5        (53.3)
a          101.2          85.8      10.7         (1.1)          60.6         57.7        0.3       2.6         (3.7)
7           76.1          69.0      16.8         (9.7)          56.2         53.2         0.3      2.7        (12.4)
8           81.6          79.7       4.0         (2.1)          54.0         51.4        0.7       1.9         (4.0)
9          161.3         1265.        -          35.8           54.0         50.7        0.3       3.9         32.8
10          161.3         126.5        -          35.8           54.0         60.7        0.3       3.0         32.8
11          161.3         126.5        -          35.8           54.0         60.7        0.3       8.9         32.8
12          161.3         125.5        -          36.8           64.0         50.7        0.3       3.0         32.8
13          181.3         125.5      12.9         22.9           51.8         48.9        0.7       2.2         20.7
14          161.3         125.5        -          35.8           50.4         47.5        0.3       2.6         33.2
1S          181.3         125.5        -          35.8           49.0         48.2         0.3      2.5         33.3
16          161.3         125.6        -          36.8           47.7         45.0         0.3      2.4         33.4
17          161.3         125.5        -          36.8           48.5         43.8        0.3       2.4         33.4
18          161.3         126.5      12.9         22.9           45.3         42.7        0.7       1.9         21.0
19          161.3         125.6        -          35.8           44.2         41.6        0.3       2.3         33.5
20          161.3         126.5    (64.5)        109.3           45.3         40.6        0.3       4.4         95.9
Financial Rat, of Return: Negative
I,.It.
rt
'pt



MAP SECTION



IBRD 152
MYANMAR
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
YANGON
\PROECT
ELRNART ONAL                                4   Wood Processing Mills and Factories
OTHER
t  Wood Processing Mdls and Factories
Log Depots
*   Timber Corporation Headquarters
Built-vp Areas
KA\SII                                                                               -   Roads
------Rail,015
N>\vlt4SEIN                                                                     Riv\  4 \    /g  t  RiRers
; -   -ntalernotionol boundaries
CHAUNGig\  <  
~~~~~~~/7;\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A/'tJ''~~ '-\                         fAI                 G)                                          1      -
P t MY ,t      S ?                                        L EP 
tsM3z.~~~~~~~er ISa_ ISf ISS Of lil SaIr                                                         \ iyWS,W0Pamo.CiS
16-49'6149'N 1990
{ { THAltAND ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4NO^<4tAlV StA  |R
2 ti < t nia fw,o r_n Fnw w nl,r tMOi * r e-cW zr ~ oansnar d O 1K2A
a-~~~~~~~~ H  }<*rwv  cwrrr     our _n   
V   I K      t   Fmier  nlrn,ufdatlu-onhamvFnr                                       lmL(
O r _ x nSyye sn r "d or rs " r 'r t1~~
INDI  - tro r rA7   rdt
CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DEM~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEB  9



