Documietntoto
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3162-BA
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 19, 1981
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ii the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             Kyat (K) 6.6
K 1.00         =    US$0.152
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hoppus foot (HF)                     =   1.273 cubic feet (cu ft) true geo-
metric measure for roundwood
1 hoppus ton (H ton)                   =   50 HF in round logs, or
= 63.75 cu ft true geometric measure,
or            3
= 1.805 cubic meter (M ) roundwood
underbark
1 sawn ton (S ton)                     =  50 cu ft of sawnwood, or = 1.416 M
1 metric ton (mt)                      =  2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AAC       -    Annual Allowable Cut
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
CC        -    Construction Corporation, Ministry of Construction
CF        -    Conversion Factor
CP        -    Cooperative Program (FAO/IBRD)
CAO       -    Central Accounts Office
CSU       -    Civil Works Construction Supervision Unit
EIU       -    Equipment Installation and Operating Unit
EPEF      -    Export Price Equalization Fund
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD        -    Forest Department, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
FFS       -    Forest Feasibility Studies
FID       -    Furniture Industries Department, Timber Corporation
FOB       -    Free On Board
FRR       -    Fiscal Rate of Return
CCF       -    General Conversion Factor
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GOB       -    Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
FINNIDA         Finnish International Development Agency
IDA       -    International Development Association
IRR             International Rate of Return
MAF       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
OCC             Opportunity Cost of Capital
PAPRD     -    Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department,
Ministry of Planning and Finance
PU        -    Project Unit
SEE       -    State Economic Enterprise
TC        -    Timber Corporation, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program



FOR OFIFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION  ................................................                               1
II.   THE FOREST AND FOREST  INDUSTRIES  SECTOR  .....................                             1
Role  in Economy  .........................................                            I
Composition  of Forest Resources .........................                             2
Forest Management .......................................                              2
Timber Extraction  .......................................                             2
Wood Processing Industries  ..............................                             3
Other Forest  Industries  .................................                            5
The Timber  Corporation  ..................................                            6
III.   THE PROJECT  .................................................                               9
objectives  ..............................................                             9
Brief Description  .......................................                             9
Detailed  Features  .......................................                          10
Project Costs  and Financing  .............................                          13
Procurement  .............................................                           15
Disbursement  ............................................                           16
Budgeting,  Accounts  and Audit  ...........................                         16
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .................................                              17
PU Organization - Brief Description  .....................                           17
PU Organization - Detailed  Features  .....................                          18
Project Unit Management  and  Staffing  ....................                         19
Other Agencies Involved in Project Implementation .19
implementation Schedule  .................................                           20
V.   PRODUCTION,  MARKETS AND PRICES  .............                ..       ...............     20
Production                   ..........................  20
Export Markets  and Marketing  .............................                         21
Local Markets and Marketing ............................ .                           22
Internal Transfer Pricing                   ...................  23
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ...........................................                             23
Financial  Benefits  .......................................                         24
Project Operating Cost ......................                                        24
Financial  Rate of Return  ................................                          25
Sources  and Applications  of Fund  ........................                         25
Financial  Structure  of  the Project Unit (PU)  ....                    ........    26
Impact of PU on Overall TC  ..............................                           26
VII.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  .................                              27
General .................................................                            27
Production  and Benefits  .................................                          28
This document has a restricted distribution and rnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriization.



- i~i -
Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
Non-Qualified  Benefits   ..................................  28
Economic  Analysis   .......................................  29
Sensitivity  Analysis   ....................................  30
Project  Risks   ...........................................  31
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS   ............................................  31
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cost
2.  Historic Financial Statements
3.  Projected Financial Statements
4.  Organization and Implementation Charts
5.  Construction Corporation
6.  Economic Analysis
7.  Glossary of Terms
8.  Project File
TABLE NO.
2.1 Timber Corporation - Financial Performance
3.1 Project Cost Summary
3.2 Financing Plan
5.1 Project Production (Year 8)
5.2 Local Prices
6.1 Incremental Revenues (Year 8)
6.2 Operating Cost Structure (Year 8)
6.3 Financial and Fiscal Rates of Return
6.4 PU - Summary Sources and Applications of Funds
6.5  Summary Statements (Year 8)
7.1 Sources and Distribution of Project Benefits
7.2 Economic Rate of Return
7.3 Switching Values
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 15250



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises the first wood industries modernization and
rehabilitation project in Burma. The project is part of the Government's
development strategy for the Forest and Forest Industries Sector which empha-
sizes higher export earnings through better utilization of the country's
natural resources. Most of the proposed project components were identified
in the Forest Feasibility Studies (FFS) of 1978 financed by IDA under the
Forestry I Project (Cr. 493-BA). The Timber Corporation (TC)--the largest
logging and wood processing enterprise in Burma--assisted by FAO/CP, started
project preparation work in 1979 and submitted its project proposal to the
Bank in May 1980. An appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. T.P.N. Sinha,
W. Johnson (IDA), J. Myllyrinne and C. Wheeler (Consultants) visited Burma
during June 1980. Mr. Mustanoja, FINNIDA representative, also joined the
mission. During appraisal, agreement was reached to reduce project scope
which substantially reduced market and implementation risks.
II. THE FOREST AND FOREST INDUSTRIES SECTOR
2.01      Burma is well endowed with forest resources which cover almost half
of its 167 M ac land area. Burma's relatively low population density (47 per
sq km) and growth rate (2.2%) have prevented any significant erosion of the
forest area which has consequently declined by less than 0.1% per year. The
reserved forest area is about 24 M acres and has shown a small increase of
about 0.4% per annum during the last five years. Forest Department aims to
increase the reserved forest area from the current 14% to about 30% of the
total land area.
Role in Economy
2.02      Forestry activities per se account for less than 3% of GDP in
current prices. However, the sector is much more important in export trade
where it has traditionally been the second largest foreign exchange earner,
and in FY78/79 when rice exports were unusually low, forest products export
surpassed all other categories and earned about half of the K 1.9 billion in
export revenues. In FY79/80 forest product export earnings, it is estimated,
returned to their more normal level of about K 0.7 billion. The sector is
also an important source of funds for the national budget and made a net
contribution of about K 600 M (14%) to public sector resources in the form
of royalties, taxes, duties and surplus in FY78/79.
2.03      The sector is an important source of construction material, and
supplies about 300,000 S tons of lumber and 18 M sq ft of plywood per annum.
A shortage of these construction materials has constrained implementation of
many projects in Burma such as the ADB supported Rice Processing Industries
Project. IDA and ADB assisted forestry projects (para 2.08) are expected to
improve hardwood and teak supply in the future.



-2-
2.04      Forest products provide a high proportion of rural energy con-
sumption through firewood and charcoal. The rural population is also very
dependent on forest products such as bamboo for housing construction. The
sector provides total permanent employment of about 150,000 of which about
32,000 are employed by TC. Forests are also important ecologically. They
play a significant role in protecting Burma's watersheds, preventing soil
erosion and ensuring a sustained flow of irrigation and drinking water for
downstream population.
Composition of Forest Resources
2.05      Burma's forests have been classified into eight forest types of
which the mixed deciduous forests are the most important. These forests
produce mainly teak (Tectona grandis) and pyinkado (Xylia dolabriformis),
and also have other commercial hardwoods such as padauk (Pterocarpus macro-
carpus), tamalan (Dalbergia oliveri), and thinwin (Milletia pendula). There
are also extensive bamboo stands in Arakan and Tennasserim states. Teak,
the most important commercial species, forms about 10% of the growing stock
in the reserved forests.
Forest Management
2.06      All forest land in Burma is owned by the State, and the Forest
Department (FD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest (MAF) is primarily
responsible for its management. FD, which was founded in 1856, manages
Burmese forests in accordance with the Forest Act of 1881 as amended in 1902
and 1941. The Act authorized creation of reserved forests. FD sets annual
allowable cuts (AAC) within these forests. The AAC stands at about 400,000 H
tons for teak and 2.1 M H tons for other hardwood. Because of differences
in accessibility, relatively more teak gets extracted from accessible area,
resulting in overcutting, and reduced diameter of logs extracted from these
areas. To reduce such overcutting GOB recently increased the girth limit for
dry teak extraction which is expected to reduce teak extraction in future to
about 360,000 H tons. The impact of this decision on the ongoing IDA financed
projects is presently under review. Royalties are assessed by FD on the logs
extracted at rates of K 200/H ton teak and K 15-30/H ton for other hardwoods.
In addition, GOB receives substantial contributions from TC operations through
export tax of about K 1100/H ton and local tax of about K 110/H Ton. The
total tax levels are higher than in most other timber exporting countries.
2.07      FD also has a forest plantation program under which about 170,000
acres of teak and about 80,000 acres of other hardwood species were planted.
The program is supported in part by the IDA assisted Forestry II Project, and
is expected to increase teak supply in future.
Timber Extraction
2.08      Timber extraction reached a peak of 1.3 M H tons in 1972/73 and
declined after that reaching a low of 1.0 M H tons in 1975/76. The decline
was due to shortage of extraction equipment and fuel. Since then IDA assisted
Forestry I & II Projects and ADB assisted Sagaing Forestry Project have
provided substantial assistance for extraction, in the form of new equipment



-3 -
and technical assistance. The decline has been reversed and about 1.4 M H
tons of teak and other hardwood logs were extracted in 1979/80. Teak extrac-
tion, which is a state monopoly, contributed about 0.4 M H tons; other hard-
wood extraction by TC contributed 0.6 M H tons with the remaining 0.4 M H
tons coming from private sector extraction of non teak hardwoods.
Wood Processing Industries
2.09      Background.  Burma has a long history of wood processing industries
dating back to at least the late seventeenth century. The British timber
companies established extensive teak sawmilling operations about a hundred
years ago and many of the sawmills which were established then, are still
in operation. As a result of this long history the Burmese sawmill workers
are skilled and experienced, but at the same time many of the sawmills are
antiquated, and well beyond their economic life. Investment in the 1960s
was low and teak sales declined by 23% (nominal) between 1962 and 1972. In
recognition of this poor economic performance, the Government initiated a
period of reforms with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan. Th-e main
objectives of the Plan are to foster economic growth within the context of
a socialist system, to enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency by
converting from an agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society, to
eliminate unemployment and to reduce income disparities. The GOB's strategy
for achieving these goals is constantly evolving, with innovations proposed as
new constraints are encountered.  The main elements of this strategy, however,
appear to be: (a) to give higher priority initially to the directly productive
sectors, especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to make greater
use of aid, trade, and--to a lesser extent--technical assistance; (c) to
follow a price stabilization program which emphasizes cost reduction, through
increased efficiency in industry and technical change in agricultu-re; and (d)
to begin to introduce work incentives and commercial principles, especially
in the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs). In accordance with this policy,
most wood processing industries are in the state sector under the Timber
Corporation (2.19).
2.10      Teak Sawmilling 1/ in Burma is now reserved for the public sector,
with only custom resawing permitted in the private sector. Therefore, all
the 18 Burmese teak sawmills are owned and operated by TC. Their annual
throughput capacity is about 275,000 H ton. This capacity is adequaate quan-
titatively but not qualitatively. Most of the capacity (about 62%) is in
mills older than 40 years. These old mills are inefficient. They employ
circular saws with wide kerf which wastes a significant amount of the valuable
teak wood as excessive sawdust. Newer technology, using bandmills with
narrower kerf can reduce sawdust losses by 3% points and increase Dutturn
percentage from the present 43% to 46% Hoppus. In addition better dimensional
control through improved technology would allow reduction in oversize allow-
ance by about 40%; resulting in a 2% point increase in recovery. Therefore,
there is a significant scope for improving efficiency, output volume and
quality through the modernization of the Burmese teak sawmills. Thnis would
be one of the main objectives of the proposed project.
1/   Other hardwood sawmilling is described in para 2.15.



2.11      Teak Sales.  Because of the nature of Burma's wood processing
industry and the quality and efficiency problems (para 2.10), TC has a policy
of ex ,ozting its best teak as logs. In 1978/79, TC exported about 74,000 H
ton of high-grade logs worth about US$50 M.  Lower grades of teak were
exported as sawnwood. Sawnwood exports in 1978/79 were about 73,000 sawn
ton 1/ worth about US$50 M. The lowest grades of teak sawnwood, are sold
locally. In 1978/79, local teak sawnwood sales were about 40,000 sawn ton
worth about US$11 M. The local prices are lower because of the lower grade
of teak sawnwood sold in local markets. GOB policy is to improve the wood
processing industry and thereby realize higher export revenues from its
forest resources. The proposed project would help improve product quality.
2.12      Plywood and Veneer Production.  Burma has only three plywood and
veneer mills all of which are owned and operated by TC. Two are located in
Rangoon and one at Swa, 200 miles north of Rangoon. The mills produce teak
veneers and cores. The mills are 11 to 21 years old and are relatively small,
with an estimated capacity of about 13,000 m . The capacity utilization is
only about 50% due to frequent breakdowns, specially in the drying section.
Product quality is poor due to improper handling, gluing and drying. The
wornout machines also waste raw materials resulting in a very low outturn of
about 20%. One of the plywood mills (mill No. 1) is threatened by river bank
erosion. Since the machinery in the mill is old and worn out, TC have wisely
decided to allow plymill No. 1 to die a natural death and to rehabilitate the
other two mills.
2.13      Plywood and Veneer Sales.  Almost all of the plywood and veneer are
sold locally with an occasional export of teak veneer and teak faced plywood.
In 1978/79 about 18 M sq ft of 5/32" thick plywood panels worth about US$3.3 M
were sold locally and only about 0.5 M sq ft of teak veneer worth about
US$60,000 was exported. Low production volume and poor quality have prevented
any significant exports.
2.14      Furniture and Flooring Products.  Burma has only one factory for
production of furniture and flooring products. The factory was started in
1921 as a Forest Department Research operation and later converted into a com-
mercial entity under TC. The factory produced about 26,000 pieces of furniture
and special items in 1978/79 worth about US$0.7 M. In addition, flooring
products such as teak parquet mosaic and lamparquet components worth US$0.3 M
were also produced. Most of the furniture has traditionally been sold within
Burma and the flooring products outside Burma. In line with GOB policy to
sell more teak in processed form, TC is now making increased efforts to export
furniture by improving product quality and marketing. TC has recently reached
an agreement with a Hong Kong firm for technical and marketing assistance.
TC would now like to invest in equipment and facilities for improving quality
and increasing production (Annex 1).
2.15      Hardwood-/Sawmilling.  There are about 185 hardwood sawmills in
Burma, out of which about 40% are owned by TC and the rest by the private
sector. The total capacity is about 600,000 tons of which about 55% is
1/   Equivalent to 170,000 H tons in log form.
2/   In Burma this refers to hardwoods other than teak.



concentrated in the two divisions (Mandalay and Sagaing) of the Upper Burma
region. The sawmills are small and use circular saws with wide kerf which
reduces outturn percentage to about 54% Hoppus. The output of these mills
goes almost entirely to the local market with less than 5% being exported.
IDA assisted Forestry I & II Projects and ADB assisted Sagaing Forestry
Project are providing about US$9 million worth of equipment and spares for
rehabilitation and expansion of TC hardwood sawmilling capacity. TC, there-
fore, does not wish to include hardwood sawmilling in the proposedl project.
2.16      Export Pricing Policy.  Export prices for wood products are set by
TC, which is the sole Burmese exporter of those products. TC has a mono-
polistic position in world teak markets, supplying virtually all of teak logs
and 70% of teak conversions entering international markets. Prior to 1978/79,
TC management instituted sharp price increases in an unpredictable manner.
This led to a contraction of teak markets as many consumers switched to other
hardwoods. Since 1978/79, TC has instituted a more organized pricing policy.
TC revises export price only once every year in April. The market: is informed
about price increases sufficiently in advance of that date, and the.price
increases have been moderate at about 10% which is only about 2 to 3% above
inflation. As a result, TC has been able to regain most of its ctistomers.
The current average export price for teak logs is K 4,700 per H ton and for
teak sawnwood - K 5,700 per S ton, which is about 2% higher than ]:ndonesian
teak price and reflects the quality premium for Burmese teak.
2.17      Local Pricing Policy.  GOB sets local prices of wood products, so
as to cover standard cost of production with a 10% extra allowance for profit.
For wood products such as plywood and furniture, the cost based formula yields
reasonable prices when compared with export prices (para 5.09). Since most of
higher grade teak is exported the local prices for higher grade teak are not
relevant (para 5.09). For the lowest grade teak sawnwood, which are unexpor-
table and are sold only on the local market, GOB sets price of about K 1,850
per S ton. The price is not significantly different from the unofficial
market price of about K 2,200 per S ton. Other hardwoods are sold, mostly on
local markets. Average price for the main construction timber (pyinkado) is
about K 1,300 per S ton. That compares with an equivalent export price of
about K 4,000 per S ton and local free market price of K 2,500 per S ton.
Thus, official prices for hardwood sawnwood are low and do not reflect its
opportunity cost. GOB believes that increasing local hardwood prices, at this
time, would fuel inflation.  GOB, therefore, wishes to increase the use of
cheaper substitutes such as plywood, whose production would be doubled by the
proposed project.
Other Forest Industries
2.18      The other forest industries include bamboo based pulp and paper
manufacture, firewood and charcoal production, and other activities such as
resin, wax and lac production. Firewood and charcoal production is about
13 M H tons, and is mostly in the private sector. Pulp and paper production



- 6 -
is mostly in the state sector. Manufacturing facilities consist of an inte-
grated pulp and paperboard mill, and a waste-paper paperboard mill. The pro-
duction is about 10,000 tons per annum, providing only about a third of Burma's
paper product consumption. GOB, assisted by consultants, is now preparing
a pulp and paper project for possible IDA financing. GOB is also consider-
ing approaching FAO/CP for assistance in preparing a Fuelwood project for
possible IDA financing.
The Timber Corporation (TC)
2.19      TC is a Government-owned corporation, formed under the State Timber
Board Act of 1950 as a separate legal entity with perpetual succession. The
name was changed from State Timber Board to Timber Corporation in 1972. TC
has three main areas of responsibility:
(a) Extraction of all teak logs and half of the hardwood
logs produced in Burma;
(b) Operation of most of the wood processing industries in
Burma including all teak sawmills, plywood and veneer
mills, furniture and flooring products factories and
about 40% of the hardwood mills; and
(c) Marketing of wood products, both within and outside
Burma.
2.20      Organization.  TC is a large corporation with about 32,000 full
time employees and 600 professional staff. TC has historically had a func-
tional organization. This was modified in 1976 into a matrix organization,
following the new commercialization guidelines for State Economic Enterprises
(SEE) issued by the Government (para 2.22) and followed by all State owned
corporations such as TC. However, in practice, the emphasis is still on
functional specialization. TC has also created project units (PU) for devel-
opmental purposes. These PU have typically been formed to implement large,
externally assisted development projects such as the IDA assisted Forestry
I & II projects and the ADB assisted Sagaing Forestry Project, all of which
are mainly extraction oriented projects organized under the extraction depart-
ment. PU have considerable authority and autonomy within TC, reflected in
higher level staffing, direct access to the Managing Director when needed,
and separate financial statements and audits. This arrangement has been very
successful in concentrating effort on areas with the greatest potential for
TC; so much so that, TC intends to use similar arrangements for its wood
industries operations.
2.21      Management.  Traditionally TC's management was extraction oriented,
with insufficient emphasis on wood processing industries and marketing. This
resulted in declining product quality and marketing efforts, so that TC's
exports declined sharply. Export volume of teak sawnwood declined by 40% over
five years ending in 1977/78 (63,400 S tons to 38,700 S tons), and, of teak
logs by 15% (53,700 H tons to 45,600 H tons). In 1977/78, a Managing Director
with stronger marketing and processing background, was appointed. Since then
increasing attention has been devoted to these functions and the export



volumes of processed wood products have increased by 40% and that. of logs by
6% over the 1977/78 level thereby recouping previous declines. The present
management of TC is enthusiastic, energetic and open to new ideas.
2.22      Operational Autonomy.  TC, like most SEE, had very little opera-
tional autonomy prior to 1975. In May 1975, new guidelines for SEE were
issued. The guidelines gave some financial and operational autonomy; allowed
use of incentives to encourage better performance; and acknowledged that SEE
should make profits. The price revisions made at that time plus increased
operational autonomy improved the financial viability of most SEE including
TC. Prices have been allowed to increase to cover costs and return a profit
of around 10% on sales. However, substantial central control remlains. Price
increases, production targets, and main investment decisions require Cabinet
approval.
2.23      Financial Performance.  In 1978/79 TC reported a profit of US$110 M
before tax on a gross revenue of about US$186 M (Annex 2). TC has consistently
improved its financial performance over the last five years (Table 2.1). In
particular, the performance improved significantly since 1977/78 reflecting
improved marketing performance.



- 8 -
Table 2.1:  TIMBER CORPORATION - FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
(Million Kyats)
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79
Sales Volume
Teak Log Sales       000 H tons         40        39      29         49        78
Teak Sawnwood        000 S3tons         88       92       73         73       113
Plywood              000 m              10         8       6          8         7
Summary Income Statement
Income                                408       435       563       718    1,229
Expenses                               262      252       307       356       506
Profit Before Tax                      146       183      256       362       723
Profit After Tax                        34       48        61       131       269
Summary Balance Sheet
Current Assets                         445      483       716    1,038    1,409
Fixed Assets                           144      135       209       223       336
Total                                  589      618       925    1,261    1,745
Current Liabilities                    188      240       343       521       643
Long Term Debt /a                    )                    246       269       361
) 401      378
Equity and Retained Earnings /a   )                       336       471       741
Total                                  589      618       925    1,261    1,745
Performance Indices (X)
Profit Before Tax vs Revenues           36       42        45        50        59
Profit Before Tax vs Assets             25        30       28        29        41
Profit After Tax vs Assets               6         8        7        10        15
Long Term Debt vs Equity                -        -         73        57        49
Current Ratio (fraction)                 2.4       2.0      2.1       2.0       2.2
/a   TC summary financial statement available for FY1974/75 and 1975/76 do
not provide a breakdown between Long Term Debt and Equity.
As can be seen from the above table, TC even after heavy taxation (63% of
income before tax), now has a return of about 15% on net assets, and has
succeeded in reducing its long term debt to equity ratio from 73% to 49%.
The current ratio at around 2.2 gives adequate liquidity to the corporation.
2.24      Financial Reporting.  TC's financial reporting has also improved
over the last five years, but there is still scope for improvement. Annual
financial statements are completed almost one year after the end of the fiscal
year. This late preparation delays auditing. TC claims that accounts from
far away agencies are received late because of outdated systems and procedures
that result in communication problems which delays consolidation. Recognizing



- 9 -
this problem TC has created separate accounts for income, assets and liabili-
ties of all externally aided projects. The preparation and auditing of these
project unit financial accounts has generally been timely. TC has engaged
consultants under its Forestry I & II Projects and who are helping to improve
the quality of reporting.
2.25      Project Implementation Performance.  TC is beneficiary of two IDA
credits (Cr. 493-BA, Cr 949-BA) for the ongoing Forestry I & II Projects.
Initially, Forestry I Project had many implementation problems. These related
to consultant hiring, vehicle procurement and diesel supply. These problems
have been overcome and project unit output is now excellent in both projects.
The experience gained in management practices under the first project is
being utilized in improving overall TM efficiency, and has contributed signi-
ficantly to the marked improvement in TC's financial performance. The two
projects created project units which were instrumental in concentrating
efforts and increasing production in key areas (para 2.20). This successful
experience would be utilized in the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The proposed project would be the first in a series of projects
that GOB wishes to undertake to improve the efficiency of the wood processing
industry and to increase the local value added of its valuable teak resources.
The main objectives of the first project would be to:
(a)  improve efficiency and product quality of the export
oriented teak processing industries through modernization
and rehabilitation of the existing capacity:
(b)  Advance technical and export marketing skills of teak pro-
cessing industry personnel, through training and technical
assistance; and
(c)  Export through further processing of a larger proportion
of the lower grades of teak, which at present cannot be
exported and are therefore sold on local market at relatively
low prices.
Brief Description
3.02      The proposed project would be implemented over four years and would
include:
(a)  Reconstruction and modernization of two sawmills with a
total of about 105,000 H tons per annum teak sawmilling
capacity;
(b) Rehabilitation of two plywood and veneer mills:



- 10 -
(c) Expansion of flooring component production by about 144,000
sq. meter per annum;
(d) Rehabilitation and modernization of the existing furniture
factory;
(e) Improvement of log storage and handling;
(f) Construction of a central workshop;
(g) Strengthening of administrative, marketing, monitoring and
construction facilities;
(h) Training; and
(i) Technical assistance.
Detailed Features
3.03      Reconstruction and Modernization of Teak Sawmills:  Existing teak
sawmills are old and inefficient (para 2.11). The project would phase out six
of these inefficient mills with an input capacity of about 105,000 H tons and
replace them with two modern sawmills of equivalent capacity. Sawmill No. 1
will have an effective two shift throughput capacity of about 45,000 H tons
in the main mill and about 15,000 H tons in an extension mill for short logs
and square ends. The second sawmill will only have the main mill with 45,000
F ton throughout capacity. These modern sawmills will use band saws which
produce narrower kerf than the existing circular saws. Raw material wastage
would be reduced and conversion efficiency improved by five percentage points.
Each main will have two production lines headed by 72" main breakdown saws.
The extension mill will also have two lines but will be headed by 60" saws.
Better material conveying system would be provided to relieve the clutter and
material flow problems of the existing mills.  Sawdust will be transferred
by undermill conveyors to sawdust storage bins, and wastewood to firewood
storage area. These improvements will also benefit sawmill sanitation and
safety. Following local practice, housing for officers and labor would also
be provided. The first sawmill to be reconstructed would be at the site of
the existing sawmill No. 1 which is being phased out. The site is on Rangoon
river, a short distance from teak log storage depots and the Rangoon harbour--
the main export point in Burma. For the second sawmill, the site of the
Thuwunna sawmills had been suggested. However, some river bank erosion
problem had been noticed by the appraisal mission. TC has now Droposed
sawmill No. 3 site in Rangoon instead. Appropriateness of new site would
be studied further. Agreement has been reached that TC would select the
second sawmill site (where construction is to begin in second year of the
project - 1982) by August 31, 1981. Teak sawmills' cost 1/ would be about
US$24 M including US$7 M in duties and taxes.
1/   All cost figures, unless mentioned otherwise, include duties and taxes,
but exclude contingencies.



- 11 -
3.04      Rehabilitation of Plywood Mill No. 2.  The mill is located in Rangoon.
It has two rotary peeler, two veneer slicers and associated equipmients (Annex
1) with a rated capacity of 1,444 standard sheets (8'x4'x4mm) per day. Actual
production is 55% of that capacity. The main problems are:
(a)  Veneer handling capacity is insufficient;
(b) Dryers are beyond their economic life;
(c) Glue applicator is worn out and inefficient;
(d) Lack of an edge to edge core splicer reduces product
quality; and
(e) No arrangement for flitch production.
The project would remove these problems and bottlenecks by providing a veneer
reeling/unreeling machine, a veneer clipper and splicer, a veneer dryer, a
glue applicator and other associated equipment. Agreement was reached that TC
would make arrangements satisfactory to IDA to provide flitches for plymill
2, according to the plymill's specifications. The proposed rehabilitation
would cost about US$3.4 M of which US$1.2 M would be in duties and taxes.
3.05      Rehabilitation of Plywood Mill No. 3.  The mill is locaited in Swa.
It has two plywood production lines with a rated capacity of 1600 standard
sheets per day. Out of two lines only one is operational. Over the years, due
to spare part shortage, one of the rotary peelers was stripped of most of its
parts to keep the other peeler operational. The peeler is now beyond economic
repair. The project would provide a new rotary peeler along with two years'
spares worth US$0.6 M for both production lines (Annex 1). TC would ensure
that in future adequate funds for spare parts would be provided. The project
would also replace dryer, presses, boiler and associated equipmenlt. These are
worn out and create production bottlenecks and affect both production quantity
and quality. Veneer handling would be improved by providing reeling/unreeling
machines. Plywood quality problems such as core overlap would be reduced by
providing an edge to edge gluer for core veneer. The mill also has two veneer
slicers. Improvements in the mill's drying capacity would allow further
utilization of these slicers. Rehabilitation of plymill No. 3 would cost
about US$4.1 M of which US$1.5 M would be in duties and taxes.
3.06      Flooring Products Expansion.  In response to export market demand
TC wishes to expand production of flooring products. The main constraint
to expansion is the limited timber seasoning capacity. The existing boiler
is old and a replacement is necessary. The project would provide a new steam
generating plant of higher capacity and expand timber seasoning facilities
at a cost of US$1.4 M.  This would alfo help furniture production and export
(para 3.08). In addition, a new 80 m /hr mosaic parquet line and replacement
equipment for existing parquet lines worth US$0.8 M (Annex 1) would be pro-
vided. The expanded production of teak parquet would use the low(er grade
teak now being sold on the local market and convert it into exportable parquet.



- 12 -
Expanded production would require additional infrastructure deveLopment, work-
shop and storage space, transport and handling equipument and staff quarters
whic'L would be provided as a joint facility between flooring products lines
and furniture production at a cost of US$1.5 M.  The total cost including
joint costs would be about US$3.7 M including US$1.1 M in duties and taxes.
3.07      Furniture and Joinery.  The existing production lines have a low
output of 22,000 units/year and the quality is not up to export quality.
This production is not sufficient to meet even the local demand. Most of the
machinery is very old and in need of replacement. The factory building needs
renovation. The project would provide sawing, planning, moulding,-.rortizing,
jointing, pressing, sawing, painting and finishing machines to increase
furniture production to about 118,000 pieces per year. Factory size is
appropriate. Similar size factories are operating successfully in developing
countries such as Ghana. A new door and window line producing 2,500 door and
5,000 window sets per year, would also be provided. The existing factory
building would be renovated. This equipment and renovation would cost US$3.1
M including about US$1.1 M in duties and taxes.
3.08      Central Workshop.  Most of the wood processing industries have
suffered due to inadequate and delayed maintenance and repair. The repair
facilities in each of the factories is very limited. Repair facilities
available in Rangoon are not adequate to serve the needs of TC. TC therefore
wishes to create a central workshop to service all the project factories and
even teak sawmills outside the project if the capacity permits. The workshop
would have a well equipped machine shop with lathes, surface grinder, milling,
shaping, boring and honing machines (Annex 1). A foundry and a forging
section would also be provided. Housing for workers would be constructed near
the workshop.  The central workshop would cost US$4.5 M includirg US$1.2 M in
duties and taxes.
3.09      Log Storage and Handling.  Most of the teak logs are floated down
the Burmese river system and stored on river banks in the Rangoon area (Map).
Logs are prevented from drifting away by booms anchored to the river bank.
However, during storms many of these booms break loose and some logs (about
600 H ton/annum) are lost. The project would provide pile drivers and log
salvage units to reduce this loss by about 500 H ton. Log handling would
also be improved by rehabilitating existing cranes and providing additional
skidders and towing launches (Annex 1). The project would provide about
US$130,000 for a pilot project to study alternative methods of reducing log
quality losses in storage. The component would cost about US$0.7 M including
US$0.2 M in duties and taxes.
3.10      Administrative Support and Construction Equipment.  Project Manage-
ment and monitoring would be provided by the newly created Project Unit (para
4.01). Existing facilities are not sufficient to accommodate the new group
and additional support would be required. The project would provide office
space, seven housing units and associated infrastructure and operating expen-
ses at a cost of US$0.8 M. Transportation, office and construction equipment
(Annex 1) worth US$2.6 M, including US$1.0 M in duties and taxes, would also
be provided. These facilities and equipment would be available for subsequent
Wood Industries Projects.



- 13 -
3.11      Technical Assistance. The proposed project is the first major project
in the Wood Industries sector and involves substantial technology transfer
through the modernization of sawmills, plywood mills, veneer manufacture and
furniture industries. Therefore, technical assistance, along with training,
would be a very important project component. About 118 man-months of techni-
cal assistance would be provided. The main areas covered would be production
planning and control, sawmill technology, plywood technology, veneer slicing
technology, plymill and sawmill maintenance, furniture design/technology and
industrial cost accounting. The technical assistance consultants would help
with equipment installation and startup. They would also provide on the job
training to managers and skilled workers and would produce operational guide-
lines and manuals. Technical assistance (Annex 1) would cost about: US$1.3 M
at about $11,000 per man-month including transport and overhead. Agreement
was reached that TC would retain a consulting firm on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1981.
3.12      Training would consist of an overseas training program ifor key
project staff supplemented by local practical training imparted by the tech-
nical assistance consultants. The overseas training program would provide
161 man-months of training for about 35 persons and would cover a wide range
of subjects including factory management, maintenance, furniture design,
production technology, quality control, cost accounting, and marketing (Annex
1). Local training would consist of on the job training and short: seminars
of 2 to 5 days. The T/A team lender would be responsible for coordinating the
training program. Operational manuals/guidelines would be developed and
used during the seminars. Training would be provided in the mills and one
sawmill and one plywood/veneer mill would be selected for such training.
Preservice training would continue to be given at the existing TC training
school in Rangoon. FAO is preparing a project for strengthening the training
school. Incremental training cost would be around US$0.3 M. Agreement was
reached that TC would prepare a detailed program for overseas tra-ining satis-
factory to IDA by June 30, 1982.
3.13      Incremental Working Capital. The project mills would require
increased working capital to cover increased raw material and finished goods
inventories; and accounts receivables net of payables (Annex 3). The project
would provide US$2 M to cover the incremental working capital requirements
during the four year implementation period (Annex 1).
Project Costs and Financing
3.14      Project Costs. The total project cost would be about US$64 M
(K 422 M) of which US$18 M (K 120 M) would be in duties and taxes and US$32 M
(K 213 M) in foreign exchange (Table 3.1).



- 14 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
-------Kyats M-------  ------US$ M ---------
Sawmilling                   81.0    76.6   157.6   12.3   11.6    23.9         48
Furniture and Flooring
Products                   21.0    24.5    45.5    3.2    3.7        6.9      54
Plywood and Veneer           19.7    29.8    49.5    3.0    4.5        7.5      60
Central Workshop             11.5    10.1    21.6    1.7    105        3.2      46
Administration and
Monitoring                  7.3     3.4    10.7    1.1    0O5        1.6      30
Construction Equipment        4.5      7.4    11.9    0.7    1.1       1.8      63
Log Storage and Handling    1.7        2.8     4.5    0.3    0.4       0.7      63
Technical Assistance          0.0      8.3     8.3    0.0    1.3       1.3    100
Training                      0.0      2.0     2.0    0.0    0.3       0.3    100
Incremental Working
Capital                    11.9     1.6    13.5    1.8    0.2        2.0      12
Total Base Cost             158.6   166.5   325.1   24.1   25.1    49.2         51
Physical Contingency         12.2      8.3    20.5    1.8    1.3       3.1      41
Price Contingency            37.9    38.0    75.9    5.7    5.8    11.5         50
Total Cost                  208.7   212.8   421.5   31.6   32.2    63.8         51
Equipment costs are based on June/July 1980 quotations for October 1980 con-
tracts. Civil works costs are based on the Construction Corporation estimates
of unit rates for local construction in FY80/81. Physical contingencies for
civil works are estimated at 15%, and for equipment, at 5%. Price contingen-
cies are based on an estimated local inflation of about 8% per annum up to FY
1984/85. Inflation in foreign equipment costs is estimated at 10.5% for 1980,
9% for 1981, 8% for 1982, and 7% thereafter. Total physical contingencies
amount to 6.3% of base costs, and price contingencies, 23.4%.
3.15      Financing.  The proposed IDA credit of US$32 M would finance foreign
exchange costs of about US$29 M equivalent (excluding training and technical
assistance) and about US$3 M of local costs excluding duties and taxes.
FINNIDA (the Finnish foreign aid agency) would finance technical assistance
and training (about US$2 M) on a grant basis. The proposed IDA Credit and the
FINNIDA Grant would finance about 74% of the total project costs net of taxes
and duties. TC would finance US$28.6 M of local costs (US$18 M duties and
taxes) and US$1.3 M of foreign costs for equipment and materials reserved for
procurement under local procedures (para 3.16).



- 15 -
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(us$ M)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA               3.0       29.0       32.0
FINNIDA            -         1.9        1.9
TC               28.6        1.3       29.9
Total          31.6       32.2      63.8
IDA would finance foreign equipment and steel procured under ICB, spares,
($29.0 M) and the balance of the construction material that is suitable for
local procurement only ($3.0 M). The IDA credit of K 211 M equivalent, would
be onlent by GOB to TC for a period of 15 years, including 4 years grace for
principal repayments, at 10% interest. TC would bear the exchange risk.
Given a projected inflation rate of about 7-8% annually over the loan period,
the interest represents a positive rate. Local bank interest rates to cor-
porations range between 5 to 9%, and TC would not derive any compestitive
advantage from the proposed terms for onlending the IDA credit. D)uring
negotiations financing arrangements were discussed with GOB and the execution
and delivery of a relending agreement between GOB and TC would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (para 8.03(a)).
Procurement
3.16      Procurement would be carried out by TC project unit (paras 4.03,
4.04). Equipment (US$28 M) and steel sections (US$1 M), not produced in
Burma, would be procured following ICB in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines, and would be eligible for IDA financing. Other equipment, such
as calculators, office furnishings, vehicles, cement and steel rods estimated
to cost about US$2.0 M of which about US$1.3 M is foreign exchange (Annex 1,
Table 24) would be reserved for procurement under local procedures, would be
financed by GOB and would not be eligible for reimbursement. Bulky construc-
tion materials such as sand, shingle, bricks and timber (US$5 M) are not
suitable for ICB and would be locally procured. Sand and shingle are supplied
by cooperatives and factory made bricks by the Government owned Ceramic
Corporation with whom TC would contract for supply at Government set rates.
These rates, which are fixed to cover costs and 10% profit, are lower than the
free market rates. Timber would be made available by TC at transfer prices
which are also lower than the free market price. These procuremenit procedures
for sand, shingle, brick and timber would provide TC with materials at the
lowest possible cost and are acceptable to IDA. Civil works labor and over-
head (about US$3 million) would be provided by the Government-owned Construc-
tion Corporation under contracts with TC. Small imported off-the--shelf items
costing less than US$10,000 cif, which are not suitable for ICB, would be
purchased through normal GOB procurement procedures which are satisfactory to
IDA. Purchases of such equipment would be limited to a total of US$300,000,
excluding duties .and taxes. Project management, monitoring and incremental
working capital costs (US$2 M) would be locally procured and financed.



- 16 -
Technical assistance and training (US$2 M) would be provided by FINNIDA, under
grant terms to GOB.
Disbursement
3.17      Disbursements under the credit (Annex 1) would be completed by
December 31, 1985--approximately nine months after project completion.
Disbursements would be made for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported equip-
ment, materials and supplies or 100% of ex factory cost
of locally manufactured goods (US$29.0 M); and
(b) 65% of expenditures on local construction material
(US$3.0 M).
Applications for withdrawals would be fully documented and no statements of
expenditures would be necessary.
3.18      Retroactive financing of up to US$0.3 M is recommended to cover
foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials which TC intends to procure
early so that project civil works construction is not delayed. Only equip-
ment procured after January 1, 1981 would be eligible.
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
3.19      All GOB departments and corporations are required to prepare an
annual budget for approval by their Ministry and then by the Finance Ministry,
the Economic Committee, and the Cabinet. Even though a project may have been
approved and foreign financing assured, a corporation may not be able to
implement the project if the required expenditures are above the budgeted
expenditure. The budget revision procedure is time consuming. Consequently
some IDA assisted projects have suffered delays. Agreement was reached that
the draft project budget and implementation plan for each fiscal year would be
sent to IDA for review before the end of August of the preceding fiscal year,
i.e., 8 months before the start of the fiscal year. This arrangement would
give IDA the opportunity to assess the adequacy of financial provisions in
advance of the start of the fiscal year, and the opportunity of bringing to
the notice of GOB any comments it might have.
3.20      TC maintains accounts according to procedures and forms specified
by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Separate accounts are kept for each
project unit, each Division and State office and for each department of TC.
TC is presently about a year behind in preparing its financial statements
(para 2.24). To avoid delays in getting project expenditures audited,
agreement was reached that separate project accounts would be established in
a format similar to those agreed upon in the IDA forestry projects.
3.21      The budgetary control on each account is maintained through a pre-
audit of any proposed expenditure. Expenditures beyond budget allocations
cannot be made. The procedure does not allow a corporation to accelerate



- 1 7 -
project implementation without a time consuming supplementary budget proce-
dure. This re-emphasizes the importance of careful monitoring of annual
project budgets.
3.22      The Central Accounts Office (CAO), acting on behalf of the Council
of People's Inspectors, is responsible for auditing government agency accounts,
including TC's accounts. CAO has performed audits of project unit accounts
usually on time, but has been unable to do so for other TC accounts because
of late submission of those accounts (para 3.20). CAO would be acceptable
to IDA as an independent auditor. Agreement was reached that:
(a) Project unit financial statements would be made availalble
for auditing and to IDA within four months of fiscal year
end; and
(b)  Project unit audited financial statements and audit report
would be made available to IDA within nine months of fiscal
year end.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Following past successful practice, the proposed project would be
implemented by a semi-autonomous project unit (PU) within the Timber Corpora-
tion. A similar organizational structure was also followed unde-r the
Forestry I and II Projects and found to be very successful. This is due to
the fact that such units have considerable authority and autonomy within TC,
reflected in higher level staffing, direct access to the Managing Director
when needed, and separate financial statements and audits. The uanit would
continue to operate after project construction and would handle subsequent
wood industries projects also.
PU Organization - Brief Description
4.02      PU would be headed by a Project Director (PD) of the rank of a
Deputy General Manager or higher. PD would supervise two operational units
and three support units (Annex 4). These are:
I.   Operational Units
a.   Civil Works Construction Supervision Unit
b.   Equipment Installation and Operating Unit
II.   Support Units
a.   Administration
b.   Finance
c.   Audit
PD would also be assisted by the team of technical assistance consultants,
a liaison officer, and PU main office staff.



- 18 -
PU Organization - Detailed Features
4.03      Civil Works Construction Supervision Unit (CSU).  CSU would be
responsible for the supervision and monitoring of civil works construction
under the project (para 4.13), and would be headed by a Deputy Project Direc-
tor. CSU would also be responsible for the procurement of construction
material and equipment and for the inspection of civil works, and material and
labor utilization. CSU will have two inspection sub-units and one sub-unit
for planning, monitoring and procurement.
4.04      Equipment Installation and Operating Unit (EIU).  EIU would be
responsible for equipment procurement, mill layout and foundation specifica-
tion, and equipment installation. EIU would also be responsible for running
project mills. EIU would be headed by a Deputy Project Director, who would
supervise two operational and one support subunit. The subunit structure
would be similar to that under CSU to facilitate horizontal communication and
coordination. The operational subunit A would be responsible for sawmills and
central workshop and subunit B, for other components. These operational units
would supervise project mill operation during construction/rehabilitation
period. They would specify mill layout and foundation requirements for CSU
to follow, and later they would supervise equipment installation and start up.
The support unit would be responsible for planning and procurement of equipment.
4.05      Administration unit would be responsible for personnel policies,
benefits, transfers and promotions. They would discharge these functions in
consultation with unit/subunit managers. Administration would also be res-
ponsible for ensuring that all PU positions are filled promptly with quali-
fied staff.
4.06      Finance Unit.  PU would maintain separate accounts which would be
prepared by project mills' accounting staff, supervised and assisted by the
finance unit. The finance unit would be headed by an Assistant PD. The
unit will have three assistant managers responsible for proper accounting of
project expenditures for material, equipment and manpower. In addition the
unit would have two sections, one responsible for monitoring and reporting,
and the other, for cost accounting. The monitoring and reporting section
would supervise preparation of quarterly financial statements by mill
accountants. They will also monitor project progress in terms of physical
targets and prepare quarterly progress reports. The cost accounting section
would have the major responsibility for introducing industrial cost accounting
in the project mills and would be assisted by a consultant under the technical
assistance program.
4.07      Internal Audit.  The project unit would have an internal audit wing
with two inspection teams. The audit will ensure that the project funds are
spent properly for the purposes of the project and also that the project
expenditures are correctly recorded in the project accounts.
4.08      Marketing.  Responsibilities would remain within the existing
Marketing and Milling Department (Annex 4). However, agreement was reached
that TC would establish a new product production and marketing unit to promote
sales of non traditional products such as teak veneer, furniture and flooring



- 19 -
products by October 31, 1981. The section would also promote sales of pro-
ducts to non traditional market segments such as chain stores in North America.
Project Unit Management and Staffing
4.09      The project unit would be managed by a high level officer of TC
with direct access to the Managing Director. Because of the need for close
coordination with the Marketing and Milling Department, the Project Director
would be an officer with close ties to that department. TC has already
designated an officer meeting those criteria as the Project Director of PUI.
4.10      CSU would be staffed with engineering staff from engineering depart-
ment of TC. EIU would be staffed with TC personnel, mostly from the milling
and marketing department. The existing staff of sawmill No. 1, plywood mill
No. 2 and 3, and Furniture Industries Department numbering about 3,000, would
be transferred to EIU along with other positions and functions. Staff for
the equipment procurement section and central workshop would come from the
Engineering Department of TC. The project mills are at present managed
by generalists with very few technical specialists in the mills. Typically,
the mills do not have any engineers responsible for industrial engineering
functions such as production and quality control. Consequently, these func-
tions are neglected and contribute towards the low capacity utilization, high
material wastage, and low product quality. Agreement was reached that TC
would appoint at least one engineer with a mechanical or industrial engineer-
ing background for each of the project mills latest by March 31, 1983 and make
them responsible for production and quality control. The Rangoon Institute
of Technology produces such graduates and therefore TC would be able to hire
such engineers locally. Initially these engineers would be assisted and
trained by foreign consultants under the technical assistance program.
4.11      The mills will expand their staff by about 20% from 3,000 to 3,600.
These new positions in mills would be required only after construction and
installation are completed.  TC has about 40,000 sanctioned posts of which
only about 32,000 are being utilized. Therefore TC does not anticipate
administrative problems in filling another 600 positions.
4.12      The three support units, administration, finance and audit, along
with PU central office have about 110 positions. Most of these would be
filled with experienced staff from TC headquartes.
Other Agencies Involved in Project Implementation
4.13      The Construction Corporation (Annex 5).  As a policy of GOB,
permanent civil works in Burma are undertaken by the Construction Corporation
(CC) unless the works are beyond CC's capacity. For this project the major
structures would be constructed by CC under fixed price contracts with TC.
A draft contract between TC and CC was available for discussion at negotia-
tions. Agreement was reached that TC and CC would enter into contractual
agreements, upon terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and not later than
six weeks prior to the proposed date of signing of such contracts, cause TC
to furnish to IDA, for its review and comment, a draft of such contracts.
The design section within CC would prepare detailed construction drawings.



- 20 -
CC would undertake construction employing two Droject construction units.
Each construction unit would be headed by an executive enginieet and staffed
witY 44 engineers, 16 junior engineers and 25 others. CC has assigned a
project coordinator to coordinate construction work amongst TC, CC's design
section and the project construction units.  Assignment of a project civil
works coordinator would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.14      TC is supervised by Ministry of Agriculture and Forests which along
with the Cabinet approves major TC decisions such as new investments and also
annual budgets. Ministry of Planning and Finance through the Budget Depart-
ment is involved in annual budget approval; through the Equipment Control Com-
mittee (ECC) staff, in approving new projects and their equipment list; through
the Foreign Economic Relations Department, in arranging foreign financing; and
through Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department (PAPRD), in project
appraisal especially project organization, in very limited monitoring of
project progress, and finally in preparing a completion report. Agreement was
reached that PAPRD in cooperation with TC would prepare the project completion
report for the proposed project.
Implementation Schedule
4.15      The project would be implemented over a four-year period ending
in FY 1984/85 (Annex 4). TC has already designated PD and started prepara-
tion of tender documents. Equipment procurement for components requiring
little civil works construction (plywood mills, FID and storage) would be
taken up first.  TC intends to procure construction equipment even before
project approval, so that civil works construction is not delayed. A period
of eighteen months has been allowed for major equipment procurement. Civil
works would be constructed over a four-year period. Site plans, mill layouts
and detailed specifications for majority of equipments have been prepared
and TC intends to start tendering shortly.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
Production
5.01      Project mills would produce teak sawnwood, teak faced plywood, other
plywood, teak veneer, furniture and special items such as door and window sets
and flooring products such as lam parquet and mosaic parquet. Low grade teak
sawnwood and firewood, produced as a byproduct, would be sold on local market.
Table 5.1 shows the incremental production due to project at full production
(year 8) after project completion, based on two-shift operation.



- 21 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT PRODUCTION (Year 8)
In cremental
Without Project    With Project        P?roduction
Main Products                   Quantity  Value  Quantity  Value   Quantity  Value
(K M)             (K M)              (K M)
Teak Sawnwood - Export Grade
('000 S ton)                    34.4     196    38.6        243     4.2       47
Teak Faced Plywood (M sq. ft.)   2.7          4     6.5         9     4.0        6
Other Plywood (M sq. ft.)          7.9        8    21.0        21    13.9       14
Teak Veneer (M sq. ft.)            0.3        -    21.6        17    21.3       16
Furniture and Joinery Products
('000 pieces)                   35.2       6   138.3         22   103.1       15
Flooring Products ('000 sq. m.) 65.9          5   210.0        15   144..l      10
Byproducts
Teak Sawnwood - Local Grade
('000 S ton)                     8.6      15      9.7        17     1.1        2
Firewood ('000 S)                 28.8        2    32.0         3     3.2        1
Agreement was reached that the project mills would be operated on at: least
two-shift basis, so that the full project benefits are realized.
Export Markets and Marketing
5.02      Export grade teak sawnwood would form the bulk of the project pro-
duction (70%) and exports (85%). The market for teak sawnwood is strong.
Between 1970/71 and 1978/79 revenues from teak sawnwood increased by about
460% from 59 M kyats to 334 M kyats. Volume of teak product exports; remained
unchanged and the large revenue increase was due to buoyant prices which
increased by about 25% per annum compounded, from 789 K/S ton to 4,572 K/S
ton. In April 1980, order backlog was about 47,000 S ton which represents
about 8 months export production. The large export order backlog, inspite
of the recessionary climate, shows the strength of market demand. The project
incremental production of about 5% of total teak sawnwood exports from Burma,
would not present any marketing problems.
5.03      Teak sawnwood prices are sensitive to quality and size differences.
Burmese sawnwood export prices range between US$300-3,000 per S ton, with an
average price of about US$860 (K 5,700) per S ton f.o.b. Rangoon. lhe price
is low when compared with retail prices in Europe and America, which averages
around US$3,000--a difference of about 250%. A part of the difference (about
40%) is due to product mix differences and transport cost, but the major part
(about 160%) is due to marketing channel costs and poor sawing quality.
5.04      Marketing channel costs are high for several reasons.  TC's ability
to respond quickly to export orders is limited by the low frequency of sail-
ings to Europe, North America and Middle-East. Therefore either the consumers
have to maintain large stocks and bear the carrying costs and risks, or they
have to deal with stockists in Hong Kong and Singapore, whose margins are
large to cover their transshipment, warehousing and capital costs. TC could



- 22 -
give better service by transshipping at Singapore and realize better prices,
but a lack of container service from Rangoon port at present, makes that
option unattractive. GOB, assisted by consultants, are preparing a Ports
project for possible IDA financing. During preparation, the feasibility of
providing container service at Rangoon Port would be studied.
5.05      Prices are also low due to poor sawing quality in old mills.  The
project would improve sawing quality through sawmill modernization. TC esti-
mates that the improved quality would yield an average of 20% higher prices.
That estimate may be optimistic and a 5 to 10% increase is considered to be
more reasonable.
5.06      While teak sawnwood exports would represent 85% of project exports
and therefore should continue to receive major export marketing effort, the
other non traditional export products such as teak veneer, furniture, joinery
and flooring products are also important from a longer term marketing strat-
egy view point. TC's ability to increase total teak export volume is limited
by the annual allowable cut (MAC) for teak. Therefore, TC could only expand
its revenue by increasing the local value added. These non-traditional
export products offer the best opportunity for doing that. The project would
improve production volume and quality of these products, and through the non-
traditional product marketing section (para 4.08) TC would devote special
marketing effort in promoting their sales, to ensure that these products
receive attention commensurate with their strategic significance.
5.07      Pricing of non-traditional export products would have to be very
competitive in the beginning so as to increase TC's market penetration. TC
realizes that and is proposing realistic prices for these products. These
would average US$0.116 per sq. ft. for teak veneer; US$30 per piece for
furniture and special items; and US$1 per sq. ft. for parquet. With increased
marketing effort TC can realize prices significantly higher than these pro-
jected prices, especially for furniture and parquet.
Local Markets and Marketing
5.08      Local markets are supply constrained.  GOB policy is against market
determined prices, because of a very deep concern about inflation. GOB fixes
local price of TC products using a formula based on standard costs and a 10%
profit margin allowance. Table 5.3 shows GOB set Local prices for major
product categories.
Table 5.3: LOCAL PRICES
Product                                 Price
(Kyats)
Local Grade Teak Sawnwood               1,800 per S ton
Teak Plywood (3.6 mm)                      46 per sheet of 32 sq. ft.
Other Plywood (4 mm)                       32 per sheet of 32 sq. ft.
Furniture and Joinery Products        119-125 per piece
Local Parquet                              79 per sq. m.



- 23 -
5.09      Local plywood prices are in line with international prices 1/ and no
adjustments are required. Local parquet prices on a volume basis are about
half the export price. Since local parquet revenue is less than one-third
of 1% of project revenues, with little impact on project viability, formal
assurance on price adjustment is not necessary. Teak sawnwood prices are
also low but are appropriate for the lower grades of teak. Since, TC has
had a policy of allocating the lowest grades of teak sawnwood to the local
market, local teak sawnwood price has not been a problem. However, because
of shortage of construction timber such as pyinkado for which teak is a sub-
stitute, and increased construction activity, there is increasing pressure
to divert export grade teak to the local market. This is reflected in TC
sales figures between 1970/71 and 1978/79, which show virtually no change
in export sales volume, but a 69% increase in local sales volume. The volume
of export grade teak going to local market is however, small, below 10% of
production. To reduce pressures for any further diversion, GOB wishes to
use the supply mechanism, through the increased production and increased
imports of cheaper substitutes. That is reflected in the project design
which envisages a 70% increase in production of plywood which is a cheaper
subsitute for sawnwood. GOB is also increasing imports of construction
material such as corrugated galvanized iron sheets and structural steel to
reduce demand pressure on teak. Such imports increased by about 80%, between
1976/77 and 1978/79. TC has indicated that only about 20% of project teak
sawnwood output would be sold on local market. Agreement was reached that
project teak sawmill sales to local market would be limited to about 20%.
TC is the main supplier of furniture to all levels of GOB. This supply has
been tightly constrained in the past and current demand will absorb the
planned production increases.
Internal Transfer Pricing
5.10      Some of TC teak sawmill and plywood mill products would be used
within other TC industries. For instances about 5,800 S tons of teak sawn-
wood and 1.9 M sq. ft. of plywood would be used by TC's furniture factory.
Transfer price of these products have not been changed since 1975, and now
lag behind local market price. For instances teak sawnwood transfer price
is about K 1,000 per S ton compared with local selling price of K 1,800--a
difference of 80%. TC realizes that these low prices would not give enough
incentive for material cost control and has indicated that the in,ternal
transfer prices would be adjusted upwards to reflect market prices. Agreement
was reached that the TC transfer prices would be raised to market: values by
April 1, 1982.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01      The main project beneficiaries would be TC and GOB which is the sole
owner of TC. The project would be financially very attractive to both the
beneficiaries, and would support future capital formation within TC and help
GOB budget.
1/   The price equals plywood f.o.b. prices from S.E. Asia, using a GCF of
about 0.8.



- 24 -
Financial Benefits
6.02      The project would generate about K112 M in incremental revenues
annually after project completion (Table 6.1).
Table 6.1: INCREMENTAL REVENUES (Year 8)
(Millions of 1980 Kyats)
Over-
Sawmills   Plymills   FID   head    Total
Income
Gross Revenue                49          36        26     1       112
Expenditure                   8          16        11     3       38
Net Income before
Financing and Tax       41          20       15    -2        74
Distribution
GOB-Taxes                    25          13        11     -       49
TC-Retention                 16           7        4    -2        25
of which interest
(deflated)                                                       8
Other                                                              17
About K 74 M would be left for distribution after expenditures. The major
part--about two thirds--would go to GOB as taxes and contribution, leaving
about K 25 M for TC. These incremental retained earnings are sufficient
to service debt. GOB would also receive about K 120 M in duties and taxes
during project construction, and would therefore be the main beneficiary of
the project.
Project Operating Cost
6.03      Operating costs of project mills would be about 39% of project
revenues (Table 6.2).
Table 6.2: PU OPERATING COST STRUCTURE (Year 8)
(Millions of 1980 Kyats)
Total                  Incremental
Cost   % of Revenue      Cost   % of Revenue
Raw Material                83         24            16         14
Labor                       14          4             2           2
Energy and Fuel              2          1             1           1
Depreciation                26          7            25         22
Other                       11          3             5          5
Total                    136         39           49          44



- 25 -
The main operating cost item is raw material which includes royalties and
forms about 24% of revenue and 61% of operating cost in financial prices. A
major aim of the project is to increase project mills' efficiency by making
better use of an expensive raw material such as teak. That is reflected in
the incremental raw material cost ratio which fall to only 14% of incremental
revenue. The depreciation at 7% is low, because the project mills have
substantial old investment which, in accordance with Burmese accounting
practice, is not revalued. The high incremental profit margin of 56% ensures
that the financial rate of return on the incremental investment would be
attractive (para 6.04).
Financial Rate of Return
6.04      The financial rate of return (FRR), on project investments of about
K346 M (para 3.14), is about 16% which is well above both the real (2%) and
nominal costs (9%) of financing the project (Table 6.3).
Table 6.3: FINANCIAL AND FISCAL RATES OF RETURN
(Percent per annum)
Proportion of
Financial   Fiscal   Project Cost
Total Project                         16          27           lOC0
Components - Sawmills                 21          30            51
- Plymill 2               22          37             8
- Plymill 3               14          28             9
- Furniture               12          32            15
- Overhead /a              -           -            17
/a   Includes costs of the central workshop.
6.05      FRR for individual components would range between 12 and. 22% ,and
would be adequate. The higher FRR for Plymill 2 vis-a-vis Plymill 3 is the
result of lower rehabilitation costs (Annex 1) and greater incremental benefit
(Annex 3) from the higher production of high value export teak verLeer. The
financial returns to GOB--the owner of TC and main project beneficiary (para
6.01)--would be even more attractive because of the additional returns in the
form of duties and taxes on project investments and commodity and service
taxes on project production. Fiscal returns would range between 27 and 32%.
The big difference between financial and fiscal returns shows the big impact
of taxes on financial returns. Inspite of the heavy taxation, the project
would generate enough funds for debt service and future capital expenditures.
Sources and Applications of Fund
6.06      PU would be able to finance a major portion of investments in fixed
assets from internally generated funds (Table 6.4).



- 26 -
Table 6.4: PU-SUMMARY SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(Millions of Current Kyats)
Years 1-4             Years 5-8
Sources                       Amount   Percent       Amount   Percent
Operations                       670       70         1,220      100
IDA Loan                         211       22           -
TC Contribution                   69         6          -
Total                            950       100        1,220      100
Applications
Working Capital                   50         5           30        2
Fixed Assets                     404       43           -         -
Debt Service                      50         5          150       12
GOB (Income Tax)                 371        39          660       55
Surplus (Other Assets)            75        8           380       31
Total                            950      100         1,220      100
Debt Service Ratio (%)
Average                                      7                    12
Maximum                                     10                    15
The debt service ratio would be small and would never exceed 15%.  The
low debt service ratio and high cash flow from operations would ensure
that PU would have the financial capacity to take up subsequent wood
industries projects.
Financial Structure of the Project Unit (PU)
6.07      The PU will report as a separate financial entity within the TC
with separate balance sheet, income statement and audit report (para 3.19).
PU balance sheet projections (Annex 3) shows a sound financial structure.
Long term debt would not exceed 45% of total capital and the current ratio
would remain above 2.8%.
6.08      A similar analysis of TC as a whole (Annex 3) shows equally sound
financial structure with long term debt remaining less than 40% of capital
and current ratio above 1:91.
Impact of PU on Overall TC
6.09      By year 8 of the project (full production) the PU will generate 25%
of TC sales and contribute 39% of profit to retained earnings. This will be
accomplished with 17% of the assets (Table 6.5).



- 27 -
Table 6.5: SUMMARY STATEMENTS - (YEAR 8)
TC     Project      PU as a
Overall     Unit       % of TC
(Million of Constant Kyalts)
Income Statement
Gross Revenue                               1,395       348         25
Cost of Goods Sold                            606       110         17
Income Before Taxes and
Depreciation                                789       238         30
(Million of Current Kyats)
Income Before Taxes and
Depreciation                             1,407        424         30
Depreciation and Interest                     152        40         26
Taxes                                         967       272         28
Retained Earnings                             288       112         39
(Million of Current Kyats)
Balance Sheet
Assets - Current                           3,530        119          3
- Fixed (Net)                         686        286        42
- Other                               752        455        61
- Total                             4,968        860        17
Liabilities - Current                       1,697        33          2
- Long Term Debt                 549       116         21
- Equity                       2,722       711         26
- Total                       4,968        860         17
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECNOMIC ANALYSIS
General
7.01      The project forms part of the Government's development strategy
for the forest and forest industries sector, which emphasizes higher export
earnings through a better utilization and efficiency in Burmas' teak saw-
mills and plywood mills through modernization and rehabilitation. The project
would also support the Government objective of increasing local processing of
its agriculture and forest exports by increasing production of wood products
such as furniture, teak veneer and flooring products.



- 28 -
Production and Benefits
7.02      The project would increase teak sawnwood output by about 5,300 S
tons and improve quality of about 38,000 S tons of export grade teak sawnwood.
Teak faced plywood production would increase by 4 M sq. ft., other plywood,
by 14 M sq. ft.; teak veneer, by 21 M sq. ft.; furniture and joinery products,
by 103,000 pieces; and flooring products by 144,000 sq. meter.
7.03      The project production would increase Timber Corporation's annual
revenues by abut US$17 M, of which US$12 M (72%) would be in foreign exchange.
Benefits would be distributed between GOB and TC with the major share going
to GOB (Table 7.1).
Table 7.1:  SOURCES AND DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT BENEFITS
(Millions of Kyat per year)
With       Without        Incremental
Source              Project      Project     M Kyat       %
Local                 65.6         34.4         31.2      28
Export               282.4        201.9         80.5      72
Total                348.0        236.3        111.7      100
Distribution
Operating Cost       110.4         86.5         23.9      21
GOB                  150.6        103.8         46.8      42
TC for Capital        87.0         46.0         41.0      37
Total                348.0        236.3        111.7      100
Non-Quantified Benefits
7.04      Environment and Health.  The Project would improve environment by
providing better dust and waste material collection facilites in the recon-
structed and rehabilitated mills and factories. The project would move teak
sawmills away from densely populated areas, reducing noise pollution. That
was an important consideration in changing the location of one of the pro-
ject sawmills during appraisal. The reconstructed sawmills will have better
safety features than the existing mills. The plywood mills will have good
ventilation near dryers.
7.05      Improved Maintenance in Non-Project Mills.  The central workshop
(7% of project cost), which is being constructed to service project mills
would also service non-project mills, when capacity allows. The benefit
flowing from improved mainteance in non-project mills has not been quantified.
7.06      Technology Transfer.  Technical assistance and training (3% of
project cost) would help with technology transfer to TC's staff, benefits
from which would flow to subsequent projects also. This is specially true
for non-traditional products such as teak veneer, furniture, joinery and
flooring products, production of which TC wants to expand in future.



- 29 -
Economic Analysis
7.07      The project economic rate of return (ERR) would be about 25%, with
ERR for components ranging between 20 and 33% (Table 7.2). The benefit/cost
analysis is made in border kyats. International prices converted to kyats
with the current exchange rate. Local prices have been converted to border
kyats by means of an appropriate conversion factor.
Table 7.2: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(Percent)
Components                 ERR      % of Project Cost
Teak Sawmills               32               51
Plywood Mill 2               33               8
Plywood Mill 3               29               9
FID                         20               15
Storage and Handling         32               1
Joint Overhead Costs        -                16
Total Project             25             100
7.08      Sawmills modernization would improve outturn and quality, and
produce about K50 M annual benefits. About 90% of the benefits would be
from exports and the benefit conversion factor (CF) is close to 1 (Annex 6).
The operating cost CF is about 1.4 due to low transfer (financial) price
for raw material (teak logs). Its impact on ERR is insignificant due to
low level of incremental operating cost (about 2% of incremental benefits).
Capital cost of about K173 M includes about 60% duties and taxes on foreign
costs. Therefore, CF for foreign costs is 0.625. GCF of 0.8 has been used
for the local civil works, yielding an average capital cost CF of 0.67.
Sawmill ERR would be about 32%.
7.09      Benefits would flow from increased production of plywood and teak
veneer. CF for plywood ranges between 1.07 and 1.11 (Annex 6) and is based
on value of closest substitutes which are low quality thin teak and hardwood
scantlings. Teak veneer is only for export and a CF of 1 is used. Incremental
operating costs take up about 50% of incremental benefits. About 72% of
operating costs are for raw material consisting of logs (58%) and imported
supplies (14%). Transfer prices of logs are low, therefore a CF of 1.94 is
used based on export price of comparable quality logs. Imported supplies
bear a heavy tax burden of about 105%; therefore a CF of 0.49 is used for
them. The remaining operating costs (28%) are valued using the GCF of 0.8.
The capital cost mainly consists of imported equipment which bear 60% duties
and taxes. CF on imported equipment is 0.625, and on local civil woks, 0.8,
yielding an average CF of 0.64. Plymill's ERR would range between 29 and 33%.
7.10      FID benefits would be from increased production of furniture,
joinery and flooring products. Export grade furniture, joinery and flooring
products are already priced at border prices. Flooring product for local
market is valued at export parquet price, on a surface area basis, and yields



- 30 -
a CF of 0.9. Local grade furniture is valued using GCF of 0.8. The main cost
item is material cost (60% of total) whose financial prices are too low (para
5.10). CF of 2.03 for sawnwood and 2.12 for plywood is used to express those
costs in border prices. Labor (20%) and other operating costs (20%) are
valued at GCF of 0.8. The capital cost includes about K16 M in duties and
taxes; therefore, a CF of 0.65 is used for fixed capital and 0.93 for working
capital. FID ERR would be about 20%.
7.11      The comparatively low ERR for FID is due to the low projected
furniture and joinery product price of about US$30 per piece. TC's marketing
effort for non-traditional export items such a furniture and joinery products,
is not well developed. Through this project, TC would start developing that
effort by establishing a unit for promoting non-traditional exports (para
4.08). Should TC be able to improve its marketing effort at a faster rate
than expected, higher prices and returns are possible.
7.12      Storage and handling benefits would flow from reduction in physical
log losses from 600 H tons to about 100 H tons by provision of equipment for
strengthening moorings. These logs would be exported and are priced at their
border prices. A CF of 0.625 is used on the capital cost of K3 M because of
duties and taxes of about 60% on imported equipment. Though the ERR is high,
expansion of the size of this component would not be economic because reduc-
tion of the last 100 H ton in losses would require about K 45 M in investments.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.13      Switching values at OCC of 12% has been estimated for all benefit
and cost CF, and production levels (Annex 6, T7-10) and is summarized in
Table 7.3.
Table 7.3: SWITCHING VALUES
Percent Change in Incremental Benefits & Costs
Operating    Capital
Benefits       Costs        Costs     Production
Sawmills                - 55         + 451        + 451         - 61
Plywood Mill 2          - 32         +  63        + 190         - 59
Plywood Mill 3          - 33         +  71        + 151         - 50
FID                     - 15         +  26        +  59         - 30
Storage & Handling      - 50         + 363        + 140         - 50
Project                 - 35         + 128        + 107         - 48
7.14      Project returns are relatively insensitive to operating cost and
capital cost. These can individually double without affecting project via-
bility. The project is also not very sensitive to production levels. Even
if only half the project increase in production is realized, the project
would still be viable. This also implies low sensitivity to delays in pro-
duction due to slow implementation. Even if project production is delayed
by six years, the ERR would remain above 12%. Chances of such delay are
very low. The project is relatively more sensitive to changes in benefits



- 31 -
through changes in price, but still all the prices will have to fall by more
than a third before the project ERR falls below 12%. That is considered
very unlikely and the risk of project ERR falling below 12% is very low.
7.15      The greatest sensitivity of component specific ERR is for the FID
investments. A detailed analysis shows that the sensitivity is greatest to
reductions in prices of local grade furniture and export grade flooring pro-
ducts. Even then, the price of local furniture would have to decrease by
about half or of export flooring products by a third before the component
ERR reaches 12%. Since these prices are already considered very low, chances
of that happening are slight.
Project Risks
7.16      The main project risk would be delays in civil works construction.
Past experience in Burma shows that civil works often cause delays due to
shortage of local construction material mainly wood, and diversion of con-
struction engineers to other projects. The arrangements outlined in para
4.13 would obviate the latter problem, while TC is the main supplier of
construction timber, material shortage is likely to be a lesser problem for
a TC project. To overcome the second problem, CC would allocate project
construction units with adequate staffing under contracts with TC, satis-
factory to IDA (para 4.13).
7.17      The other project risk relates to exports of non-traditional
products. These form about 10% of project revenues, and therefore, even an
inadequate performance is unlikely to affect the proposed project viability.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached with iGOB that:
(a) TC would select the second sawmill site by August 31, 1981
(para 3.03);
(b) TC would ensure that sawmill No. 10 provides flitches to
Plymill 2 according to Plymill 2 specifications (para 3.04);
(c) Adequate spare parts would be made available to project
mills (para 3.05);
(d) A consulting firm would be retained on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1981 (para 3.11);
(e) A detailed program for overseas training would be prepared
satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1982 (para 3.12);
(f) Proposed annual project budget and implementation plan
would be made available to IDA by August of the preceding
fiscal year (para 3.19);



- 32 -
(g) Separate project accounts and balance sheet would be main-
tained (para 3.20);
(h) PU financial statements would be made available for audit
and to IDA, within four months of the end of each fiscal
year; followed by audited statements and audit report,
within nine months (para 3.22);
(i) Within TC's Marketing and Milling Department, a new product
promotion and marketing unit would be formed by October 31,
1981 (para 4.08);
(j) TC would appoint at least one engineer with a mechanical or
industrial engineering background for each of the project
mills by March 31, 1983 (para 4.10);
(k) TC and CC would enter into contractual agreements acceptable
to IDA (para 4.13);
(1) Project completion report would be prepared by PAPRD
(para 4.14);
(m)  Project mills would be operated at least on a two-shift
basis (para 5.01);
(n) Sales to local market from project teak sawmills will be
limited to about 20% of production from those mills (para
5.09); and
(o) Transfer prices of sawnwood and plywood to FID would be
raised to market values by April 1, 1982 (para 5.10).
8.02      Proposed conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) Execution and delivery of a relending agreement between
GOB and TC, acceptable to IDA (para 3.15).
(b) Formation of a project unit and appointment of the project
director (para 4.01).
(c) Assignment by CC of a project civil works coordinator
(para 4.13).



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Project Cost Tables
Table 1. Summary of Project Cost (including Contingencies)
2.  Summary of Project Cost (excluding Contingencies)
3.  Summary of Contingencies and Taxes
4.  Summary of Civil Works Cost
5.  Summary of Equipment Cost
6.  Summary of Working Capital Cost
7.  Sawmill - Civil Works
8.  Sawmill - Equipment
9.  Furniture Industries - Civil Works
10. Furniture Industries - Equipment
11. Plywood Mills - Civil Works
12. Plywood Mills - Equipment
13. Central Workshop - Civil Works
14. Central Workshop - Equipment
15. Administrative - Civil Works
16. Administrative - Equipment
17. Administrative - Staffing and Operating.Costs
18. Construction - Equipment
19. Log Storage & Handling Equipment
20. Technical Assistance
21. Training
22. Proposed Credit Allocation
23. Disbursement Projections
24. Reserve Procurement



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs (Including Contingencies)
(Thousands of Kyats)
Total        %      % Duties
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4         Costs       F.E.    & Taxes
Sawmilling                         10,045  107,491    87,352       4,306        209,194    48.1        28.9
Flooring Products & Furniture       8,644   49,164           -          -        57,808    53.5        32.1
Plywood & Veneer                   26,615   34,211           -          -        60,826    60.1        36.1
Central Workshop                         -    1,289    26,646      2,229         30,164    45.6        27.4
Administration                      6,321   -3,367       3,618       475         13,781    29.8        17.9
Construction Equipment             13,947         -          -          -        13,947    62.5        37.5
Log Storage and Handling            5,234         -          -          -          5,234    62.5       37.5
Technical Assistance                1,477    3,589       3,856     1,375         10,297   100.0           -
Training                            1,377       955          -          -         2,332   100.0           -
Working Capital                          -     -153      5,502    12,595         17,944    12.0         7.2
Total Project Cost                 73,660  199,913   126,974    20,980          421,527    50.5        28.5
August 15, 1980
,-a



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Summary Project Costs
(Thousands of Kyats)
% Duties
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Total         % F.E.   & Taxes
Sawmilling                                      7,907       83,554       63,497        2,700      157,658        48.6        29.2
Flooring Products & Furniture                   7,070       38,430            -            -       45,500        53.8        32.3
Plywood & Veneer                               22,577       26,948            -            -       49,525        60.2        36.1
Central Workshop                                    -          939       19,240        1,398       21,577        46.6        28.0
Administration                                  5,402        2,502        2,492          342       10,738        32.0        19.2
Construction Equipment                         11,872            -            -            -       11,872        62.5        37.5
Log Storage and Handling                        4,455            -            -            -        4,455        62.5        37.5
Technical Assistance                            1,320        2,970        2,982          994        8,266       100.0           -
Training                                        1,230          791            -            -        2,021       100.0           -
Working Capital                                     -         -131        4,368        9,258       13,495        12.0         7.2
Total Base Cost                                61,833      156,003       92,579       14,692      325,107        51.2        28.8
Physical Contingency                            4,193        9,827        5,850          616       20,486        40.6        24.4
Price Contingency                               7,634       34;083       28i545        S,6?        75,934        49.9        28.1
Total Project Cost                             73,660      199,913      126,974       20,980      421,527        50.5        28.5
August 15, 1980                                         



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Summary of Contingencies and Taxes
(Thousands of Kyats)
Physical Contingency                          Price Contingency
Local      Foreign        Total           Local       Foreign        Total       Taxes
Sawmilling                                          7,172      4,226       11,398          19,780        20,358        40,138      60,414
Flooring Products & Purniture                       1,712      1,310        3,022            5,125        4,160         9,285      18,547
Plywood & Veneer                                    1,108      1,497        2,605            5,266        3,430         8,696      21,933
Central Workshop                                    1,163        582        1,745            3,124        3,719         6,843       8,258
Administration                                        702        197           899             479        1,664         2,143       2,468
Construction Equipment                                223        371           594             926          556         1,482       5,230
Log Storage and Handling                               84        139           223             348          208           556       1,963
Technical Assistance                                   -            -            -           2,030            -         2,030           -
Training                                                            -            -             311            -           311           -
Working Capital                                        -            -            -             534        3,916         4,450       1,292
Total                                              12,164      8,322       20,486           37,923       38,011        75,934    120,105
Contingency Factors
Price Contingencies                Local            Foreign    Working Capital
Year 1                          0.1016           0.1189           0.08
Year 2                          0.1897          0.2084            0.1664
Year 3                          0.2849           0.293            0.2597
Year 4                          0.3877           0.383            0.3605
Physical Contingencies          Civil Works       Equipment         Other
Year 1 - 4                      0.15             0.05             0.0
August 19, 1980
I-.



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Summary of Civil Works Costs
(Thousands of Kyats)
Total     %      % Duties
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4           Costs    F.E.   & Taxes
Sawmilling                         7,907    17,894    11,877      2,700          40,378   15.5      6.7
Flooring Products & Furniture    3,530       3,940          -          -          7,470   11.5       6.9
Plywood & Veneer                   1,025       262          -          -          1,287    6.0       3.6
Central Workshop                       -       939      4,320      1,398          6,657   11.9       7.1
Administration                         -     2,160      2,150          -           4,310    6.3      3.8
Total Base Cost                   12,462    25,196    18,347       4,098         60,103   10.8       6.5
Physical Contingency               1,869      3,469     2,505        615          8,458   10.8       6.5
Price Contingency                  1,499     5,581      5,950      1,823          14,853   11.4      6.8
Total Civil Works Costs           15,830    34,246    26,802       6,536          83,414   10.9      6.5
December 8, 1980
l~~~~~~~~~
prZ3 



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Summary of Equipment Costs
(Thousands of Kyats)
Total     %     % Duties
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4            Costs    F.E.   & Taxes
Sawmilling                            -   65,660    51,620           -          117,280   59.4      35.6
Flooring Products & Furniture    3,540   34,490           -          -           38,030   62.1      37.3
Plywood & Veneer                 21,552   26,686          -          -          48,238   61.6       37.0
Central Workshop                      -         -    14,920          -          14,920   62.1       37.3
Administration                    5,060         -         -          -            5,060   61.8      37.1                    1
Construction Equipment           11,872         -         -          -          11,872   62.5      37.5                     1
Log Storage and Handling          4,455         -         -          -           4,455   62.5       37.5
Total Base Cost                  46,479  126,836    66,540           -         239,855   60.7      36.4
Physical Contingency              2,324    6,359       3,346         -           12,029   60.7     36.4
Price Contingency                 5,796   27,674    20,489           -           53,959   60.6     36.4
Total Equipment Costs            54,599  160,869    90,375           _          305,843  60.7      36.4
December 8, 1980



i-  -~ | 4       j   L
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Incremental Working Capital
(Thousands of Kyats)
Project Components                     Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Total        % F.E.
Sawmills                                    -             -         1,137         2,791        3,928          5
Plymill No. 2                               -          -132         1,912         1,901        3,681         20
Plymill No. 3                               -             -          -873         3,059        2,186         20
FID                                                       -         2,192         1,307        3,499          5
Central Workshop & Other                    -             -             -           200          200         20
Total Base Cost                             -          -132         4,368         9,258       13,494         12
Price Contingency                           -           -22         1,134         3,337        4,449         12
Total Cost                                  -          -154         5,502        12,595       17,943         12
Au   1>
August 15, 1980X 
M Fa



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Sawmill 1 - Civil Works Cost
Building              Year 1                      Year 2                      Year 3                        Total               %
Size            Units       Cost            Units       cost            Units       Cost            Units       Cost         F.E.
(Sq. Ft.)       (Sq. Ft.)   (KlOO0)         (Sq. Ft.)   (KIOOO)         (Sq. Ft.)   (KOOO)         (Sq. Ft.)   (KlOOO)
Civil Engineering Works
Site Clearing                                                  200                                                                                 200         0.0
Pile Driving                                                   700                                                                                 700         0.0
Industrial Buildings
Head Mill                      110 x 140                     2,646                       2,744                                      15,400       5,390        25.0
Scantling Mill                 110 x 250                     2,295                       2,380                                      27,000       4,675        20.0
Slab Section                   45 x 250                        956                     / 956                                        11,250       1,912        10.0
Air Compressor                 25 x 100                                                    425                                        2,500        425         0.0
Sub Station                    20 x 40                                                      70                                         800           70        0.0
Workshop                       25 x 100                                                    275                                        2,500         275        0.0
Electrical Shop                25 x 50                                                     130                                       1,250          130        0.0
Godown                                                                                   1,130                         770          30,000       1,900         9.2
Mill Office                    30 x 100                                                                                450           3,000         450         .3.9
Warehouse                      40 x 100                                                                                380           4,000          380        6.3
Garage                         20 x 20                                                      38                                         400           38        0.0           o
Road Extension                                                 360                                                                                 360         9.7
Electrical Installation                                                                    180                                                     180        12.8
Water Supply and Sewage                                        180                                                                                  180       10.0
Jetty                                                          500                                                                                 500        10.0
Fencing 3000'                                                                              210                                                     210         0.0
Log Gantry                     40 x 50                                                     600                                                      600       10.0
Shipping Gantry                40 x 100                                                    300                                                     300        10.0
Tubewell                                                        30                                                                                   30        0.0
Trestle                        10 x 20 x 60                     40                                                                                  40         0.0
Social Buildings
Canteen                        30 x 100                                                                                240          3,000          240         7.2
Labor Barrack                                                                                                          860         10,750          860         7.5
No. I Sawmill Extension
Extension of Log Gantry                                                                    150                                                     150        22.0
27' Span - 50' Length                                          _
Total Base Cost                                                7,907                       9,588                       2,700                      20,195         15.5
Physical Contingency                                           1,186                       1,167                         405                        2,758        15.5
Price Contingency                                                952                       2.125                         741                       3,818         15.5
Total Civil Works Cost                                        10,045                      12,880                       3,846                      26,771        15.5  X H
February 10, 1981                                                                                                                                                       1 14
-4  -



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES T PROJECT
Second Saw Mill - Civil Works Cost
Building           Year 2                      Year 3                      Year 4                      Total                  %
Item                                Size         Units       Cost           Units        Cost           Units       Cost            Units       Cost          F.E.
(Sq. Ft.)   (Sq. Ft.)   (K1000)         (Sq. Ft.)   (K1000)         (Sq. Ft.)   (K1000)         (Sq. Ft.)   (K1000)
Civil Engineering Works
Site Clearing                                                200                                                                                200           0.0
Pile Driving                                                 700                                                                                 700          0.0
Industrial Buildings
Head Mill                      110 x 140                   2,646                       2,744                                     15,400       5,390          25.0
Scantling Mill                 110 x 250                   2,295                       2,380                                     27,000       4,675          20.0
Slab Section                   45 x 250                      956                         956                                     11,250       1,912          10.0
Air Compressor                  25 x 100                                                 425                                                     425          0.0
Sub Station                    20 x 40                                                    70                                        800           70          0.0
Workshop                        25 x 100                                                 275                                      2,500          275          0.0
Electrical Shop                 25 x 50                                                  130                                      1,250          130          0.0
Godown                                                                                 1,270                         630         30,000        1,900          9.2           >
Mill Office                     30 x 100                                                                             450          3,000          450           3            H
Warehouse                      40 x 100                                                                              380          4,000          380          6.3
Garage                         20 x 20                                                    38                                         400          38          0.0
Road Extension                                                360                                                                                360          9.7
Electrical Installation                                                                  180                                                     180         12.8
Water Supply and Sewage                                       180                                                                                180         10.0
Jetty                                                         500                                                                                500         10.0
Fencing 3000'                                                                            210                                                     210          0.0
Log Gantry                     40 x 50                        400                        200                                                     600         10.0
Shipping Gantry                40 x 100                                                  300                                                                 10.0
Tubewell                                                       30
Trestle                         10 x 20 x 60                   40                                                                                 40          0.0
Social Buildings
Canteen                         30 x 100                                                                             240           3,000         240           7.2
Labor Barrack                                                 _                                                    1,000          12,500       1,000           7.5
Total Base Cost                                               8,307                       9,178                       2,700                     20,185          15.4
Physical Contingency                                          1,206                       1,130                         405                      2,741          15.4
Price Contingency                                             1,839                       3,078                       1,201                      6,119          15.4
Total Civil Works Cost                                       11,352                      13,387                       4,306                     29,045          15.4
>H 0
February 10, 1981                                                                                                                                                      M X



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Sawmills - Equipment Cost
Unit         Year 1              Year 2              Year 3               Total         Foreign
Cost     Units    Amount    Units    Amount    Units    Amount    Units    Amount   Exchange
(K '000)           (K '000)             (K '000)           (K '000)             (K '000)
Mechanical Equipment 1/
Main Mills
Breakdown Saws                      1,528                            5      7,640        5       7,640      10       15,280
Band Resaws                           450                           10      4,500       10       4,500      20        9,000
Edgers and Cutoff Saws                 150                          30      4,420       30       4,420      60        8,840
Log Deck Equipment                     575                           4       2,300       4       2,300       8        4,600
Roller Sections                                                              9,210               9,210               18,420
Transfer and Green Chains                                                    3,570               3,570                7,140
Conveyors and Gates                                                          2,900               2,900                5,800
Electrical Equipment                                                         3,600               3,600                7,200
Air Compressors                        195                           4         780       4         780       8        1,560
Water Pumps Pipes and Fittings                                                 690                 690                1,380
Overhead Cranes                        195                           4         780       4         780       8        1,560
Saw Sharpening                        104                           25      2,590       25      2,590       50        5,180
Workshop                                                                     1,080               1,080                2,160
Mobile Equipment                        70                          24       1,680      24       1,680      48        3,360
Subtotal Main Mill                                                               45,740              45,740               91,480    62.5
No. 1 Sawmill Extension Mill
Bandsaws                               880                           6       5,280                           6        5,280               4
Circular Saws                          270                           7       1,890                            7       1,890                E
Conveying and Handling Equipment                                             5,020                                    5,020
Saw Sharpening                          73                          12         870                          12          870
Subtotal Extension Mill                                                          13,060                                   13,060    62.5
Installation - Main Mill
Machinery                                                                    3,300               3,300                6,600    11.5
Electrical                                                                     250                 250                  500      0.0
Water and Air                                                                   50                  50                  100      0.0
Installation - Extension Mill                                                       300                 -                    300    30.0
Spares - Main                                                                     2,290               2,290                4,580    62.5
- Extension                                                                  650               2                      650    62.5
Total Base Cost                                                                  65,660              51,620              117,280    59.4
Physical Contingency                                                         3,300               2,600                5,900    62.0
Price Contingency                                                           14,300              15,900                          62.0
Total Equipment Cost                                                        83,260              70,120              153,380    60.0
1/  Mill equipment details on file.
December 8, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Furniture Factory - Civil Works Cost
Building         Year 1                Year 2                 Total           X
Size       Units      Cost      Units      Cost       Units      Cost      F.E.
(Sq. Ft.)   (Sq.Ft.) (K '000)   (Sq.Ft.) (K '000)   (Sq.Ft.) (K '000)
Civil Engineering Works
Industrial Buildings
Dry Kiln                                    100 x 200  20,000    1,600                              20,000    1,600      13.8
Timber Storage                               40 x 200                          8,000       680      8,000       680      15.5
Workshop (2 story)                           20 x 90    1,800        600                             1,800      600      12.0
Furniture Renovation                         80 x 350  28,000        450                           28,000       450      17.8
Commercial Buildings
Finished Goods Storage                       40 x 350                         14,000    1,120      14,000    1,120       13.2
Assembly Hall Renovation                     80 x 300                         24,000       140     24,000       140      11.3
Road (R.C.C.)                                            9,400       190                             9,400      190       2.1
Drainage                                                 4,200       290                            4,200       290        -
Electrical Installation                                                                    100                  100      48.1
Water Supply                                                         300                                        300       5.4
Telecommunications                                                   100                                        100      48.1
Total Industrial and Commercial                                      3,530                 2,040                5,570      13.7
Social Buildings
Deputy Mgr Residence (2)                     24 x 30                           1,440       280      1,440       280       0.7
Asst. Mgr Residence (3)                      28 x 40                           3,360       420       3,360      420       0.7
Workers Residence                            8000F2                            8,000    1,200        8,000    1,200       0.7
Total Social                                                                               1.900                1,900       0.7
Total Base Cost                                                      3,530                 3,940                 7,470     11.5
Physical Contingency                                                   530                   592                 1,121      11.5
Price Contingency                                                      425                   875                 1,301      12.6
Total Civil Works                                                    4,485                 5,407                 9,892      11.7
February 10, 1981
mx
'.0 I-



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Furniture - Equipment Cost
Unit             Year 1             Year 2             Total          Foreign
Cost        Units   Amount    Units   Amount    Units   Amount    Exchange
(K '000)              (K '000)           (K '000)           (K '000)
Furniture Machinery Groups
Sawing                                                               14      1,340      14       1,340      62.5
Planning and Moulding                                                21      3,460      21       3,460      62.5
Boring and Mortising                                                 13      1,020      13       1,020      62.5
Jointing Machine                                                     17      2,520      17       2,520      62.5
Pressing                                                              6      1,110       6       1,110      62.5
Sanding                                                              16      3,440      16       3,440      62.5
Assembly Painting and Finishing                                      14      1,650      14       1,650      62.5      1
Seasoning                                                            22      6,930      22       6,930      62.5      4
Other Machinery
Lam Parquet                           3                    190                                     190      62.5
Mosaic Parquet                       33                  2,760                                   2,760      62.5
Doors and Windows                                                    17       2,160     17       2,160      62.5
Machinery Renovation                                                  2       2,860      2       2,.860     62.5
Support Services                                                     21       3,960     21       3,960      62.5
Electrical Installation                                                         500                500      29.0
Transport and Handling                                               22       1,920     22       1,920      62.5
Office Equipment                                                     25          80    25           80      60.0
Spares                                                       590                1,540              2,130      62.5
Total Base Cost                                            3,540              34,490             38,030       62.1
Physical Contingency                                       177               1,725              1,902       62.1
Price Contingency                                          441               7,543               7,984      62.1
Total Equipment Costs                                    4,158              43,758             47,916       62.1
October 3, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plywood Mills - Civil Works
Year 1           Year 2            Total          Z
Category                           Unit                 Unit Cost      Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    F.E.
(K1000/Unit)            (K1000)          (1K1000)          (K1000)
Site Preparation                                             -           1       25        1        25       2       50       -
Boiler Shed Building          1000 Sq.Ft.                   65            1      65        1        65       2      130       7
Water Purifying Shed          Shed of 400 Sq.Ft.           140            1     140        1       140       2      280       1
Workers Barracks              Barracks of 400 Sq.Ft.         66           5     330        -         -       5      330       3
Sliced Veneer Storage         1000 Sq.Ft.                     -           -     350        -         -       -      350       1
Road                          1000 R.Ft.                     20        0.5       10        -         -    0.5        10
Electrical Installation       Lot                             -        Lot       30       Lot        2   2 Lots      32      33
Water Supply & Sanitation   Lot                               -         Lot      50       Lot       30   2 Lots      80      48
Fencing (Brick)               1000 R.Ft.                     50         0.5      25         -        -    0.5         25      -
Grand Total-Base Cost                                                         1,025                262            1,287       6
Physical Contingency                                                            154                 39              193       6
Price Contingency                                                               121                 58              179       7
Total Civil Works Cost                                                        1,300                359            1,659       6
Note:  Year 1 - Plymill #2                                                                                                 H
Year 2 - Plymill #3
Hx
~. .



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plywood Mills - Equipment
Year 1           Year 2
Plymill 2        Plymill 3         Total            % F. E.
(K 000)          (K 000)
Machinery & Equipment
Chain Saw                                       0                61               61             62.5
Veneer Preparation Section                  6,837             4,439           11,276              62.5
Plywood Preparation Section                      0            5,125            5,125              62.5
Plywood Making Section                      4,879             4,529            9,408              62.5        1
Power Unit                                  2,234             2,604            4,838              62.5       >
Equipment & Support Services                  542             1,736            2,278              62.5       C
Quality Control                               182               182              364              62.5
Machine Spares                              3,643             3,643            7,286              62.5
H/P Hot Water & Steam Pipe Rework           1,991             1,991            3,982              62.5
Installation                                  330               400              730              4.45
Transport & Handling                          914             1,976            2,890             62.5
Total Base Cost                            21,552            26,686           48,238              61.6
Physical Contingency                        1,078             1,334            2,412              61.6
Price Contingency                           2,685             5,833            8,517              61.7
Total Equipment Cost                       25,315            33,852           59,167              61.6
0X
e-J -



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I
Central Workshop - Civil Works Cost
Building                Year 2              Year 3              Year 4               Total
Size             Units    Anount   Units    Amount   Units    Amount   Units    Amount   % F.E.
(sq ft)            (sq ft)  (K'000)  (sq ft)  (K'000)  (sq ft)  (K'000)  (sq ft)  (K'000)
Site Preparation                                                      100                                                        100        -
Industrial Buildings
Main Workshop                        50 x 360                              18,000    1,980                        18,000    1,980       7.6
Carpentry and Store                 50 x 120                                6,000       660                        6,000       660      7.6
Foundry and Blacksmith               30 x 100                               3,000       330                        3,000       330    19.1
Garage and Vehicle Repair            30 x 100                               3,000       330                        3,000       330      9.1
Office                               20 x 100                               2,000       300                        2,000       300      3.3
Road                                                                500                                                        500    10.0              I
Electrical                                                          220                                                        220    22.3
Water Supply                                                        120                                                         120    105
Gantry                                                                                  720                                    720    46.5
Total Industrial                                                      940               4,320                                  5,260    1b,.1
Social Buildings
Office Bungalow                     40 x 30                                                     1,200       102    1,200       102      5.9
Labo-r Barrack (2)                   36 x 120                                                   8,640    s296    8,640    13296         3
Total Social                                                        1_398                                                      1,398        .3
Total Base Cost                                                       940               4,320               1,398              6,658    11.9
Physical Contingency                                                   141                648                 210                 999    11.9
Price Cnntingency                                                      209              1,423                 622               2254    12.1
Total Civil Works                                                   1,290               6,391               2,230               9,911    11.9
F' Z
February 10, 1-981                                                                                                                                     (



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I
Central Workshop - Equipment Costs
Unit         Year 1                Year 2               Year 3               Year 4           Foreign
Cost     Units      Amount    Units      Amount    Units      Amount    Units       Amount   Exchange
(K '000)                                                       (K '000)
Mechanical Equipment
Lathe 6' x 12"                     500                                                   1          500                           62.5
Lathe 6' x 6"                      465                                                   4        1,860                           62.5
Universal Milling Machine        1,030                                                   1        1,030                           62.5
Sharping Machine                   240                                                   1          240                           62.5
Surface Grinder                    720                                                   1          720                           62.5
Foundry Equipment                  800                                                   1          800                           62.5
Forging Machine                    320                                                   1          320                           62.5
0'Head Travelling Crane 5 Ton    750                                                     1          750                           62.5
Universal Boring Machine         1,920                                                   1        1,920                           62.5
Horning Machine                    240                                                   1          240                           62.5
Machining Unit for Band Wheels   480                                                     1          480                           62.5
Transformer                        240                                                   1          240                           62.5
Cable and Switch Gear              240                                                   1          240                           62.5
Metal Cutting Tools                320                                                   1          320                           62.5
Misc. Tools and Equipment 1/        -                                                    -        2,690                           62.5
Office Equipment 1/                 -                                                    -          140                           50.3
Transport and Handling
Mazda X2000                        120   '                                               1          120                           62.5        X
Pickup 2 Tons                      110                                                   1          110                           62.5        a
Service Van 3 Ton                 150                                                    1          150                           62.5
Truck 3 1/2 Ton                    150                                                   2          300                           62.5
Truck 6 1/2 Ton                    210                                                   1          210                           62.5
Forklift 3 Ton                     120                                                   1          120                           62.5
Equipment Spares                      -                                                    -        1,350                           62.5
Machinery Installation                -                                                    _           30                            0.0
Electrical Installation               -                                                    _           40                            0.0
Total Mechanical Equipment                                                                         14,920                           62.1
Physical Contingency                                                                                  746                           62.1
Price Contingency                                                                                  4,589                            b2.1-
Total Central Workshop                                                                            20,255                            62.1
1/ Details on file.
4.



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRTES I PROJECT
Administrative Civil Works Cost
Year 2                 Year 3                 Total
Building                                                                                  /
Item                                             Size        Units      Cost        Units      Cost        Units      Cost              F.E.
(Sq.Ft)      (Sq.Ft)   (KlOOC)      (Sq.Ft)   (K1000)      (Sq.Ft)   (KIOOO)
Civi l Engineering Works
Site Preparation
Commercial Buildings                                                           10                      _                     10               _
Office                                           12,628        6,314      1,040       6,314      1,040       12,628    2,080               2.7
Garage 20 x 100                                  20 x 100      1,000         65       1,000         65        2,000       130             7.7
Road and Drainage                                                           180                    180                    360            13.9
Electrical Installation                                                      50                     50                    100            37.3
4" Tubewell                                                                  10                     10                     20             53.2
Water Supply and Sewage                                                      35                                             70            22.3
Fencing                                                                        -
Total                                                                       1,390                  1,380                  2,770              6.5
Social Buildings
Housing for Senior Staff(7)                      40 x 30       4,200        360       4,200        360         8,400       720             5.8
Housing for Consultants(4)                       40 x 60       4,800        410       4,800        410         9,600       820             5.8
Total Social                                                                   770                    770                  1,540             5.8
Total Base Cost                                                              2,160                  2,150                  4,310             6.3
Physical Contingency                                                           324                    322                    646             6.3
Price Contingency                                                              476                    706                  1,182             6.6
Total Civil Works                                                            2,960                  3,178                  6,138             6.4
February 10, 1981                                                                                                                              a



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I
Administrative Equipment Costs
Unit          Year 1                Year 2                 Year 3                 Year 4             Foreign
Cost     Units      Amount      Units      Amount      Units      Amount      Units      Amount      Exchange
(K '000)                                                           (K '000)
Transportation
Mazda X2000          120         22       2,640                                                                             62.5
Pickup 2 Ton         110           5        550                                                                             62.5
Truck 3 1/2 Ton      150          3         450                                                                             62.5
Truck 6 1/2 Ton      210           2        420                                                                             62.5
Spares                                      410                                                                             62.5
Total                                          4,470                                                                             62.5
Office Equipment 1/                               590                                                                            56.3
C'
Total Base Cost                                5,060                                                                             61.8
Physical Contingency                        253                                                                             61.8
Price Contingency                           631                                                                             61.8
Total Equipment Cost                      5,944                                                                             61.8
1/ Details on file.
July 30, 1980                                                                                                                       I-
0'



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Administrative - Staffing and Opeating Costs
Year 1                 Year 2                  Year 3                  Year 4                  Total
Unit
Cost               Units      Cost        Units       Cost        Units       Cost        Units       Cost       Units      Cost
(KlOOO/Staff Year) (No.of Staff)(K1000) (No,of Staff)(Kl000) (No.of Staff)(KlOOO) (No.of Staff)(1000) (No.of Staff)(KlOOO)
Salary and Wages
Project Director                             4.62                1         4.6           1         4.6           1          4.6          1         4.6         4        18.4
Deputy Project Director                      4.24                1         4.2           1         4.2           1          4.2          1         4.2         4        16.8
Asst. Project Director                       3.96                2         7.9           2         7.9           2          7,9          2         7.9         8        31.6
Managers                                     3.38                4        13.5           4        13.5           4         13.5          4        13.5        16        54.0
Deputy Managers                              2.34                8        18.7           8        18.7           8         18.7         8         18.7        32        74.8
Asst. Manager                                1.46                8        11.7           8        11.7           8         11.7          8        11.7        32        46.8
Other                                        0.73              135        98.6         135        98.6         135         98.6       135         98.6       540       394.4
Sub Total                                                              159.2                  159.2                    159.2                  159.2                  63608
Other
Electri.city                                                              16.0                    16.0                     16.0                   16.0                  64.0
POL                                                                      11y.0                   117.0                    117.0                  117,0                 468.0
Supplies and Miscellaneous                                                50.0                    50.0                     50.0                   50.0                 200.0
Sub Total                                                              183.0                   183.0                    183.0                 183.0                  732.0
Total Base Cost                                                            342.2                   342.2                    342.2                  342.2               1,368.8
Price Contingency                                                           34.8                    64.9                     97.5                  132 7                  329.9
Total Cost                                                                 377.0                   407.                     439.7                  474.9               1,698.7
Ju ly 31, 1S80



- 52 -
BURMA
ANNEX 1
WOOD IMDUSTRIES I PROJECT                        Table 18
Construction Equipment
Year 1
Equipment                                       Quantity    Unit Cost    Total       F.E.
(11OOO)      (K1000)
Concrete mixer                                     12          31.2         374
Vibrator                                           34          10.2          347
Bar bending machine                                 8           3.4          27
Crane 7-1/2 ton                                     2        485.3          971
Conveyor                                            4         43.7          175
Welding set electric                                7           2.9           20
Bolts & Nuts making machine                         4           3.4          14
Tipper trucks                                      12        235.9        2,831
Front end loader (Shovel Type)                      2        119.6          239
Pile driver (40 ft.) diesel driving                 3        727.9        2,184
Cargo trucks                                        7        189.7        1,328
Jaw crusher                                         2        155.3          311
150 CFM portable Co. impressor set and
pneumatic tools                                   2         50.2          100
25 KW diesel driving portable
generating set                                    2         43.7           87
Vibratory compactor                                 1         528.1         528
Construction crane                                  2        580.8        1,162
Surveyor's level set                                3         10.6           32
Amonex copying machine                              1          63.1           63
Spare parts                                        10%                    1,079
Total Base Cost                                                          11,872       62.5
Physical Contingency                                                         594      62.5
Price Contingency                                                         1,482       62.5
Total Cost                                                               13,948       62.5
Note:  Of the total cost 62.5% is FE cost.



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Log Storage and Handling Equipment
Year 1
Unit Cost               nttyCost    F.E.
(KlOOO/TJnit)          (Unit)                (KlOOO)
Travelling Crane Rehabilitation                      273                  1                     273
Off-shre Pile Driver                                 728                  1                      728
Log Salvaging Unit                                   243                  1                     243
Self Propelled Cranes                                480                  2                     960
Front End Loader - 7.5T                              326                  1                     326
Skidder                                              243                  1                     243
Pilot Project                                                                                   840
Towing Launches                                      842                  1                     842
Total Base Cost                                                                               4,455       62.5
Physical Contingency                                                                            223       62.5
Price Contingency                                                                               556       62.5
Total Cost                                                                                    5,234       62.5
July 31, 1980
H~



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Unit           Year 1             Year 2              Year 3              Year 4               Total%
Cost        Unit     Cost      Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost     Unit      Cost         F.E.
(K1000)              (K(1000)            (K(10000)   -       (1(1000)           (K1000)             (KIOOO)
Salaries and Allowance
Team Leader/Production Planning
Control                                                      3                  6                   12                  3                   24
Sawmill Technology                                             -                  3                   12                  3                   18
Plywood Technology                                             -                  15                   9                  -                   24
Slicing Technology                                             3                  3                    3                  3                   12
Plymill and Sawmill Maintenance                                                    3                   36
Accounting                                                     3                   9                                      -                   12
Furniture Design/Technology                                    2                   2                    2                 -                    6
Headquarters Backstopping                                      1      _            5                   6                  4                   16
Sub Total                                  48.8 per m.m   12         586       46      2,245        47    2,294        13       634        118    5,759         100
Other Costs
Travel                                       18.2 per trip  14          255      38        692        36       655       18        327       106    1,929          100
Vehicles                                     82.5 per car    3          248        -                   -                  -                    3       248         100           I
Equipment & Training Material                198 per set       1        198                  -                            -                    1       198         100          W
Miscellaneous                                                            33                 33                  33                  33                 132         100          4
Sub Total                                                            734                 725                 688                 360              2,507         100
Total Base Cost                                                         1,320              2,970               2,982                 994               8,266         100
Price Contingency                                                         157                619                 874                 381             _2,031          100
Total Technical Assistance Cost                                         1,477              3,589               3,856               1,375             10,997          100
August 4, 1980
mD
0D:



WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Training
Unit        Year 1           Year 2           Total            %
Cost     Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost         F.E.
(KlOOO)            (KlOOO)         (KlO00)          (K1000)
Training
Sawmill Management                                   8                                 8
Sawnwood Marketing                                                   18               18
Sawmill Maintenance                                                   6                6
Sawdoctoring                                        12                                12
Plymill Management                                   8                                 8
Veneer and Plywood Marketing                                         18               18
Plymill Maintenance                                 12                                12
Veneer Peeling                                       6                                 6
Veneer Slicing                                      12                                12                             m
Wood Technology/Plywood Quality
Control                                                             4                4
Furniture Design                                     8                                 8
Furniture and Joinery Factory Mgt.                   8                                 8
Industrial Cost Accounting                           4                                 4
Market Research and Management                                       18               18
Marketing Study Tours and Seminars                                    3                3
Project Planning and Evaluation                     16                                16
Sub Total                               8.25      94       775     67      553    161    1,328        100
Other
Travel                                   19.8       23       455     12       238     35       693      100
Total Base Cost                                              1,230              791            2,021      100
Price Contingency                                              147              164              311      100
Total Training Cost                                          1,377              955            2,332      100
3:>
August 4, 1980                                                                                                      M
I-.



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
(Thousands of US Dollars)
Foreign Costs                    Other Costs                                Total
Fin.    Disburse-                    Fin.    Disburse-                     Fin.      Disburse-
CatesorY                                             Cost         Ratio    ment             Cost       Ratio    ment              Cost       Ratio      ment
1. Sawmilling Equipment
and Spares                                    12,800         100     12,800          8,700           -           -        21,500           -      12,800
2. Plywood and Veneer Equipment
and Spares                                     4,900         100      4,900          3,000           -           -         7,900           -       4,900
3. Flooring Products & Furniture
Equipment and Spares                           4,000         100      4,000          2,400           -           -         6,400           -       4,000
4.  Workshop, Office, Transport,
Construction, Storage and Handling
Equipment and Spares                           3,800         100      3,800          2,300           -           -         6,100           -       3,800
5.  Cement and Steel Rod                             1,000                                    700          -           -          1,700           -
6.  Other Construction Material                           -          -           -          4,600         65       3,000          4,600           -      3,000
7.  Staff Salaries Incremental Operating
Costs and Timber                                                                     4,200           -           _         4,200           -           -
8.  Incremental Working Capital                           -          -           -          2,300           -          -          2,300           -          -
9.  Training and Technical Assistance                 1,700          -           -              -           -          -          1,700           -          -
10.  Unallocated                                       4.05                   3,500          3.350                                 7,400                   3,50
Total                                           32,250                  29,000         31,550                  3,000         63,800                 32,000
February 10, 1981                                                                                                                                               -



-57 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 23
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Disbursement Projections
Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year/Qtr                     Quarterly       Cumulative
(US$M)           (US$M)
1982/1                              0.3               0.3
/2                              1.0              1.3
/3                              1.7              3.0
/4                              2.0              5.0
1983/1                              3.0               8.0
/2                              3.0             11.0
/3                              4.0             15.0
/4                              4.0             19.0
1984/1                              3.0              22.0
/2                              3.0             25.0
/3                              2.0             27.0
/4                              2.0             29.0
1985/1                              2.0              31.0
/2                              1.0             32.0
February 10, 1981



-58-                                ANNEX 1
Table 24
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Reserve Procurement
Unit
Item                              Quantity     Cost                 Total
(K '000)             (K '000)
Equipment
6 1/2 ton cargo truck                8          210                  1,680
6 1/2 ton dump truck                 4          250                  1,000
3 1/2 ton truck                      6          150                    900
2 ton truck                          7          110                    770
1/4 ton jeep wagon                   6          140                    840
1/4 ton jeep                         6          120                    720
Electronic calculator               31                                  20
Office furniture                                                       310
and equipment
Total Equipment                                                      6,240
Construction Materials
Cement                                                               4,000
Steel reinforcing rod                                               2,600
Total Material                                                       6,600
Total Reserve Procurement                                           12,800
February 6, 1981



- 59 -                                     ANNEX 2
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Historic Financial Statements
Table 1. Timber Corporation - Balance Sheet
2. Project Unit - Balance Sheet
3. Plymill 2 - Balance Sheet
4. Plymill 3 - Balance Sheet
5.  FID - Balance Sheet
6. Timber Corporation - Income Statement
7. Project Unit - Income Statement
8. Plymill 2 - Income Statement
9. Plymill 3 - Income Statement
10. FID - Income Statement



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Timber Corporation - Balance Sheet
(Millions or Kyats)
FY77/78  FY78/79  FY79/80   FY80/81  Percentage of Sales-/
ASSETS                (Actual)   (Actual)(Estimated)(Projected)  FY77/78 FY78/79
i     CASH                        19       Si       62       119        3        7
2     ACCOUNTS RECEIVABL         412      549      671       725       57       45
3      INVENTORIES               607      7S9      986    1,045        85       63
4     TOTAL C. ASSETS          1,038   1,408    1,721    1,869        145      115
GROSS ASSETS              3SS      546      636       937        0        0
6     DEPRECIATION               173      210      253      315         0        0
7     NET FIXED ASSETS           223  8. 36        383      622         0        0
a     OTHER ASSETS                 0        0         0       45        0        0
S      T0TAL ASSETS             i,281   1,745   2,1O4   2.556           0        0
LIABILITIES
iO     ACCOUNTS PAYABLE           521      643      a14       879       73       52
11     CURRENT LTD                  0        0        0        10        0        0
12     TOTAL C. LIABILITI         521      643      814      6889        0        0
I-     LONGTERM DEBT              269      361      413       667        0        0
EQUITY
14     CAPITAL                    127      127       127      127        0        0
1S     RETATNED EARNINGS          344      614      750       872        0        0
16     TOTAL EGUI TY              471      741      877       989        0        0
J.7    TOTAL LIABILITIES        1,261    ir745   2,104  2555            0        0
AND NET WORTH                                                                         m
1/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
September 3, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Project Unit-Balance Sheet
(Thousands of Kyats)
FY77/78 FY78/79  FY79/80  FY80/81   Percentage of Sales-
ASSETS               (Actual) (Actual)(Estimated)(Projected)   FY77/78  FY78/79
1     CASH                    2,871   5,257   4,118   3,995           13       18
2     ACCOUNTS RECEIYABL  28,220  30,051  35,987  36,135              S9       90
3      INVENTORIES            5,594   6,785   6,626   6,479           24       31
4     TOTAL C. ASSETS        36,785  42,073  46,731  46,609          127      140
5     GROSS ASSETS           18,934  19,Z73  20,730  27,905            0        0
6     DEPRECIATION            5,5S7   6,059   6,652   7,298            0        0
7     NET FIXED ASSETS       13,337  13r214  14078  20r607            0        0
8     OTHER ASSETS                 0 0               0        0        0        C)
9      rOTAL ASSETS          50,122  55,287  60,809  67,Z16            0        0
LIABILITIES
10     ACCOUNTS PAYABLE       18,861  20,295  21,278  23,405           82       80 e
11     CURRENT LTD                  0        0        0        0        0        0
12     TOTAL C. LIABILITI  18,881  20,295  21,278  23,405               0        0
13     LONGTERM DEBT                0        0        0        0        0        0
EQUITY
14     CAPITAL                17,858  17,858  17,858  17,856            0        0
15     RETAINED EARNINGS   13,403  17,134  21,673  25,953               0        0
16     TOTAL EGUITY           31,261  34,992  39,531  43,611            0        0
17     TOTAL LIABILITIES   50,122  55,287  60,809  67,216               0        0
AND NET WORTH
l/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.                                                F 
August 15, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plymill 2-Balance Sheet
(Thousands of Kyats)
FY77/78  FY78/79  FY79/80   FY80181  Percentage of Salesl/
ASSETS                (Actual)  (Actual)(Estimated)(Projected)  FY77/78  FY78/79
1     CASH                     1,194    1,506   1,277    1,228          18       24
2      ACCOUNTS RECEIVABL   2,876    1,254   3,448   4,Z77              44        20
3      INVENTORIES             1,524   3,018  2157   2,075             23        48
4      TOTAL C. ASSETS         5,584   5,778   6S88Z   7,580            86        92
5      GROSS ASSETS            3.498   3,236   2,994   2,770              0        0
6      DEPRECIATION               253      217      177       133        0         0
  _                       ------
7      NET FIXED ASSETS        3,245   3,019   2,817   2,637              0        0
8      OTHER ASSETS                 0        0         0        0         0        0
9      TOTAL ASSETS            8 839   8,797   9,689  10,217              0        0
LIABILITIES                                                                                  0
10      ACCOUNTS PAYABLE        4 125   3,254   3,474   3,342            63        52
11      CURRENT LTD                  0        0         0        0         0        0
12      TOTAL C. LIABILITI    4,125   3,254   3,474   3,342                0        0
13      LONGTERM DEBT                0        0         0        0         0        0
EO,UITY
14      CAPITAL                 4,318   4,318   4,318   4,318              0        0
15      RETAINED EARNINGS          396    1,225    1,907   2,557           0        0
16      TOTAL EQUITY            4,714   5,543   6,225   6,875              0        0
17      TOTAL LIABILITIES       8,839   8,787   98,699  10,217             0        0
AND NET WORTH
1/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
August 15, 1980
w.  9,



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plymill 3-Balance Sheet
(Thousands of Kyats)
FY77/78 FY78/79  FY79/8O   FY80/81   Percentage of Sales-
ASSETS                (Actual) (Actual) (Estimated)(Projected)  FY77/73 FY78/79
1     CASH                      940   3,516   2,139   2,068            6       26
2     ACCOUNTS RECEIVABL  21,116  24,418  27,462  30,505             156      186
3     INVENTORIES             1,785   1,355   1,489   1,439           13       10
4     TOTAL C. ASSETS        23,841  29,289  31,090  34,012          176      224
5     GROSS ASSETS            9,796   9,795   9,794   9,793            0        0
6     DEPRECIATION            2,871   3,270   3,721   4,229            0        0
7     NET FIXED ASSETS        6,925   6,525   6,073   5,564            0        0
8     OTHER ASSETS                 0        0        0        0        0        0
9     TOTAL ASSETS           30,766  35,814  37,163  39,576            0        0
LIABILITIES
10     ACCOUNTS PAYABLE        6,540   8,717   7,270   7,027           48       66
a,
Il     CURRENT LTD                  0        0        0        0        0        0
12     TOTAL C. LIABILITI   6,540   8,717   7,270   7,027               0        0
13     LONGTERM DEBT                0        0        0        0        0        0
EQUITY
14     CAPITAL                12,301  12,301  12,301  12,301            0        0
15     RETAINED EARNINGS   11,925  14,795  17,592  20.248               0        0
1fc    TOTAL EQUITY           Z4r226  277096  297B93  32r549            0        0
17     TOTAL LIABILITIES   30,766  35813  37,163  39,576               0        0
AND NET WORTH
1/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
August 15, 1980                                                                                           >
a, z:
H 0
m



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
FID-Balance Sheet
(Thousands of Kyats)
1/
FY77/78  FY78/79  FY/79/80 FY8O/8l   Percentage of Sales
ASSETS                (Actual)  (Actual) (Estimated)(Projected)  FY77/78  FY78/79
1     CASH                       837      Z35      702      699        13        3
2     ACCOUNTS RECEIVABL   4,228   4,379   5,077   1,353               S9       65
3      INVENTORIES             .2285   2,392   2,980   2,865           37       35
4     TOTAL C. ASSETS          7,350   7,006   8,759   5,017          120      104
5     GROSS ASSETS             5,640   S,242   7,942  15,342            0        0
6     DEPRECIATION             2,473   2,572   Z,754   2,936            0        0
7     NET FIXED ASSETS         3,167   3,S70   5,188  IZ,406            0        0
8     OTHER ASSETS                 0        0         0        0        0        0
9      TOTAL ASSETS           10,517  10,676  13,947  17,423            0        0
LIABILITIES
10     ACCOUNTS PAYABLE         8,196   8,324  10,534  13,036          134      124                    a'
11     CURRENT LTD                  0        0         0        0        0        0
12     TOTAL C. LIABILITI   8,196   8,324  10,534  13,036                0        0
13     LONGTERM DEBT                0        0         0        0        0        0
EQUITY
14     CAPITAL                  1,239   1,239   1,239   1,239            0        0
15     RETAINED EARNINGS        1,082   1,114   2,174   3,148            0        0
16     TOTAL EQUITY             2,321   2,353   3,413   4,387            0        0
17     TOTAL LIABILITIES    10,517  10,677  13,947  17.423               0        0
AND NET WORTH
1/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
August 15, 1980
Lh l



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Timber Corporation - Income Statement
(Millions of Kyats)
FY77/78   FY78/79  FY79/80  FY80/81   Percentage of Sales-/
(Actual)   (Actual) (Estimated) (Projected)  FY77/78  FY78/79
SALES                      718    1,229    1,100    i.l88       100       iOO
2      OTHER INCOME                 0        0         0        0         0        0
3      TOTAL INCOME               718    1,229    1,100    1,188       100       100
4      SALARIES & WAGES           147      150       162      175       20        12
5      MAINTENANCE & REPA          30       30        33       36         4        2
6      OTHER                      125      257      278       300        17       21
7      COST OF GOOD5 SOLD         302      437      473       511       42        36                    @
8      OlROSS PROFIT              416      792      627       677        58       64
9      OYERHEADS                   18       23        25       27         3        2
10      DEPRECIATION                30       33        43       63         4        3
il      PROFIT BEF TAX             388      736      559       587       51        60
i2      C&S TAXES                   95      119       121      131        13       10
13      PROF7' BEF CONTR.          273      617       438      456        38       50
14      EPEF                       113      267       220      238        16       22
i5      INTEREET                     6       13        24       45         1        1
16      CONTRT BUTION               23       66        58       52         3        6
17      PROFIT AFTER CONTR         131      269       136      121        18       22
1/  Percentages may not add up due to rounding.                                                          I
September 3, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Project Unit-Income Statement
(Thousands of Kyats)
FY77/78  FY78/79 FY79/80   FY80/81   Percentage of Sales-
(Actual)  (Actual)(Estimated)(Projected)   FY77/78  FY78/79
1     SALES                  26,102  26,014  26,787  26,098           99      89
2     OTHER INCOME                 0        0        0        0        0        0
3     TOTAL INCOME           26.10Z  26,014  26.787  26,098           99       99
4     SALARIES & WAGES        2,804   3YO35   3,098   3,233           12       13
5     MAINTENANCE & REPA        510      469       493      497        2        2
6     OTHER                   9,498  11,636  10,326   S.998           37       44
7     COST OF GOODS SOLD  12,812  15,140  13,917  13,728              52       59
8     GROSS PROFIT           13,290  10,874  12,870  12,370           47       40
9     OVERHEADS                 693       618      705      744        3        2
10     DEPRECIATION              729       726      836      871        2        2
11     PROFIT BEF TAX         11,868   9,530  11,329  10.755           41       35
12     C&S TAXES               4,388   4,863   4,844   4,640           18       20
13     PROFIT BEF CONTR.       7,480   4,665   6,485   6.115           22       14
14     EPEF                         0        0        0        0        0        0
15      INTEREST                    0        0        0        0        0        0
16     CONTRIBUTION           2008        934   1,946   1,835          7        2
17     PROFIT AFTER CONTR   5,472   3,731   4,539   4.280              15       11
I/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
August 15, 1980                                                                                    1 
-JIm



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plymill 2-Income Statement
(Thousands of Kyats)
FY77/78   FY78/79  FY79/80  FY80/81   Percentage of Salesl/
(Actual)   (Actual)(Estimated) (Projected)  FY77/78  FY78/79
1     SALES                    6,473   6,227   5r990  5763            99        99
OTHER INCOME                0         0        0        0        0         0
3      TOTAL INCOME            6,473   6,Z27   5,990   5,763           99        99
4     SALARIES & WAGES           626      831       831      831        12       13
5     MAINTENANCE & REPA         204       197      189      182         3        3
S     OTHER                    2,672   2,551   2,463   2,370           41        40
7     COST OF GOODS SOLD   3,704   3,579   3,483   3,383               57        57
8     GROSS PROFIT             2,769   2,864B   2507   2,380           42        42
9     OVERHEADS                  179       107      134      129         2        1              1
10     DEPRECIATION               253      226       202      180         3        3
11      PROFIT BEF TAX          2,337   2,315   2,171    2,071           36       37
12     C&S TAXES                1,459   1,276   1,197   1,142            22       20
13     PROFIT BEF CONTR.          878   1,039        974      929        13       16
14     EPEF                          0        0        0        0         0        0
15      INTEREST                     0        0        0        0         0        0
16     CONTRIBUTION               507      209       292      279         7        3
17      PROFIT AFTER CONTR        371      830       682      850         5       13
l/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
August 15, 1980
o Z



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plymill 3-Income Statement
(Thousands of Kyats)
FY77/78  FY78/79  FY79/80  FY80/81   Percentage of Sales
(Actual)  (Actual)(Estimated)(Projected)  FY77/78  FY78/79
1     SALES                  13,525  13,075  12,640  12,219            99       99
2     OTHER INCOME                 0        0        0         0        0        0
3     TOTAL INCOME            13,525  13,075  12,640  12,219          B9        99
4     SALARIES & WAGES           908      909      909      909         6        6
5     MAINTENANCE & REPA         150      153      144      139         1        
6     OTHER                   4,382   6,096   4,994   4,828            32       46
7     COST OF GOODS SOLD   5,440   7,156   6,047   5,876               40       54
8     GROSS PROFIT            8,085   5,917   6,593   6,343            59       45
9     OVERHEADS                  110       88       94       91         0        0
10     DEPRECIATION               356      401      452      509         2        3
11     PROFIT BEF TAX           7,619   5,428   6,047   5,743           56       41
12     C&S TAXES                1,587   1,841   2,051    1,948          11       14
13     PROFIT BEF CONTR.        6,032   3,587   3,996   3,7S5           44       27
14     EPEF                         0        0         0        0        0        0
15      INTEREST                    0        0        0         0        0        0
16     CONTRIBUTION             1,206      717   1,l98   1.139           8        5
17     PROFIT AFTER CONTR   4,826   2,870   2,797   2,656               35       21
1/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
August 15, 1980
IL
Fa



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
FID-Income Statement
(Thousands of Kyats)
FY77/78  FY78/79  FY79/80  PY80/81  Perce ntage of Sales-
(Actual)  (Actual)(Estimated)(Projected)  FY77178  FY78/79
1     SALES                    6,104   6,712   8r157    8,116           S9        se
2      OTHER INCOME                 0        0         0        0        0         0
3      TOTAL INCOME            6104   6,712   8,157    6,116           99        99
4      SALARIES & WAGES        l.OS8    1,295    1,358    1,493         17        19
5      MAINTENANCE & REPA         156      119       160      176         Z        I
6      OTHER                   2,444   2,989   2 868    2,800           40        44
7     COST OF COODS SOLD   3,668   4,403   4,387   4,469                60        65
8      GROSS PROFIT           2Z436   2,309   3,770   3,647             38        34
8      OVERHEADS                  404      4Z3      477       524         6        6
10      DEPRECIATION               120       88       182      182         1        1
- - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - _    _    _   _    _    _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _w0
11      PROFIT BEF TAX          1,812    1,787   3,111    2.941          31        26
12      C&S TAXES               1,342    1,748   1I59G    1r550           21       26
13      PROFIT BEF CONTR.          570       39   1,515    1.391           9        0
14      EPEF                         0        0         0        0         0        0
15      INTEREST                     0        0         0        0         0        0
16      CONTRIBUTION               295        8      45S       417         4        0
17      PROFIT AFTER CONTR         275       31    1,060       974         4        0
1/ Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
August 15, 1980                                                                                        a,
t 4
o- s



- 70 -                                  ANNEX 3
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Projected Financial Statements and Returns
With Project
Table  1.  Timber Corporation - Income Statement
2. Project Unit - Income Statement
3. Sawmills - Income Statement
4. Plymill 2 - Income Statement
5. Plymill 3 - Income Statement
6. FID - Income Statement
7. Other Components - Income Statement
8. Timber Corporation - Balance Sheet
9.  Project Unit - Balance Sheet
10. Project Unit - Sources and Application of Funds
11. Sawmills - Financial Flows and Returns
12. Plymill 2 - Financial Flows and Returns
13. Plymill 3 - Financial Flows and Returns
14. FID - Financial Flows and Returns
15. Storage and Handling - Financial Flows and Returns
16. Project - Financial Flows and Returns
Without Project
17. Project Unit - Income Statement
18. Sawmills - Income Statement
19. Plymill 2 - Income Statement
20. Plymill 3 - Income Statement
21. FID - Income Statement



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Timber Corporation - Income Statement
1         2           3         4           5          6          7          8          9         10
(Millions of Constant Kyats)
Total Revenue                    1,283      1,283      1,308      1,355      1,382      1,393      1,395      1,395      1,395      1,395
Salaries and Wages                 189        189        1.91       192        192        192        192        .192       192        192
Maintenance and Repairs             40         40         41         41         41         41         41         41         41         41
Other                              324        324        328        331        341        343        343        343        343        343
Cost of Goods Sold                 553        553        560        564        574        576        576        576        576        576
Gross Margin                       730        730        748        791        808        817        819        819        819        819
Overheadd                           29         29         29         29         30         30         30         30         30         30
Income Before Taxes                701        701        719        762        778        787        789        789        789        789
and Depreciation
(Millions of Current Kyats)
Income Before Taxes                757        818        906      1,037      1,133      1,226      1,315      1,407      1,506      1,611
and Depreciation
Depreciation                        70         75         82         96        101        101        105        107        110        115
Commodity and Services Tax         141        152        171        193        214        232        251        272        293        316
Net Income                         546        591        653        748        818        893        959      1,028      1,103      1,180
Loan Interest                       61         67         66         64         62         56         51         45         40         36
EPEF                               276        297        329        382        434        484        528        572        622        674
Contribution                        63         68         77         91         97        106        114        123        132        141
Retained Earnings                  146        159        181        211        225        247        266        288        309        329
Ratios (percent)
Gross Profit vs Revenues            57         57         57         58         58         59         59         59         59         59
Profit Before DIT vs Revenues    55            55         55         56         56         56         57         46         46         46
Retained Earnings vs Revenues    11            11         11         11         11         11         11         12         12         12
September 29, 1980



BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INCOME STATMENT
PROJECT UNIT
1       2        3        4       5        6        7       8        9       10       15      20
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
LOCAL                        41,372  39,178  44-298  60,123  64,721  65,676  65,676  65,676  65,676  65,676  65,676  65,676
EXPORT                      201,973 203,172 220,904 251,086 271,413 280,658 28Z,338 282,338 282,338 282,338 282,338 282,338
IOTAL REVENUES              243,345 242,350 265,202 311,209 336,134 346,334 348,014 348,014 348,014 348,014 348,014 348,014
COST OF GOODS SOLD
RAW MATERIALS                68,952  68,187  71,Z48  77,908  31,479  82,739  83,077  83,077  83,077  83,077  83,077  83,077
MAINTENANCE                   2,288   2,423   2,696   3,243   3,336   3,346   3,346   3,346   3,346   3,346   3,346   3,346
FUEL                            429      519      586     645      471      472     472      472      472      472     472      472
POWER                           579      579   1,087   1,799   1,831   1,887   1,887   1,887   1,887   1-887   1,887   1,887
LABOUR                       11,043  11,063  12,727  14,274  14,280  14,354  14,354  14,354  14,354  14,354  14,354  14,354
FACTORY OH                    1,393   1,393   1,901   2,262   2,229   2,236   2,236   2,236   2,236   2,236   2,236   2,236
TOTAL COST OF GOODS          84,684  84,163  90,244 100,130 103,625 105,034 105,372 105,372 105,372 105,372 105,372 105.372
GROSS MARGIN                158,662 158,186 174,958 211,079 232,509 241,300 242,643 242,643 242,643 242-643 242,643 242,643
MARKTNG AND HO                3G666   3,666   4,353   4,928   4,963   5,022   5,02Z   5,022   5,022   5,022   5,022   5,022
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T 154,995 154,520 170,605 206,151 227,516 236,278 237,621 237,621 237,621 237,621 237,621 237,621
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T 167,395 180,232 214,914 280,467 331,Z00 368.033 396,033 423,755 453,418 485,157 680,458 954,377
DEPRECIATION                    580   3,797   9,420  22,265  25,520  25,520  25,520  25,520  25,520  28,410  32,464  11,356
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA  34,353  36,450  44,981  57,455  65,851  71,664  77,389  82,806  88,602  94,805 132,968 186,495
NET INCOME                  132,462 139,984 160,512 200,747 Z39,829 270,848 293,123 315,429 339,295 361,942 515,026 756,526
LOAN INTEREST                 1,885   9,166  17,732  21,011  21,120  19,200  17,280  15,360  13,440  11,520   1,920
EPEF                         59,481  61,295  67,821  82,978 100,660 115,977 126,961 137,956 149,663 160,544 234,109 346,201
CONTR                        21,664  22,347  24,715  31,075  37,519  42,687  46,530  50,377  54,476  58,454  84,508 123,097
RET EARNINGS                 49,433  47,176  50,243  65,682  80,531  92,984 102,352 111,736 121,716 131,424 194,489 287,227.
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES         65       65       66       68      69       70       70       70      70       70       70       70
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV         64       64       64      66       S8       68       68      68       68       68       68       68
RET EARN VS REVENUES              4        3        3        3       3        3        4        4       4        4        4        4
February 10, 1981



BURMA- WOOD 1NDUSTRIES PROjECT
!NtOME STATMENT
SAWMILLS
i       2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9       10       i5      2O
SALES  VOLUME
LOCAL(TONS)                  3r610   6,S10   8,967   9,387   9,576   9,S60   9,6S0   9,660   9S660   9,660   9,6S0   9S66O
EXPORT(TONS)                34,440  34,440  35,868  37,548  38,304  38,640  38,G40  38,640  386,40  38,640  386,40  38,640
FIREWOOD(TONS)              28,800  268,600  29,900  31,100  31,700  32,000  32,000  32,000  32,000  32,000  32,000  32,000
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS-)
REVYENUE
LOCAL                       15,4S8  15,498  16,141  16,S97  i7,237  17,386  17,388  17,386  17,388  17,386  17,388  17,388
EXPORT                     196,308 19S,308 204,448 225,288 237,485 243,432 243,432 243,432 243,432 243,432 243,432 243,432
F IREWOOD                    2,448   2,448   2 542   2,644   2,695   2 720   2,720   2,720   2,720   2,720   2,720   2,720
TOTAL REVENUES             214,254 2i4,254 223,130 244,628 257,416 263.540 263,540 263,540 263,540 263,540 263,540 263,540
COST OF GOODS SOLD
TEAK LOGS                   60,374  60,374  60,377  60,37k  60,375  60,377  60,377  60,377  60,377  60,377  60,377  60,377
MAINTENANCE                  1,033   1,033   1,076   1,126   1,149   1,159   1,159   1,159   1,159   1,159   1,159   1,159
FUEL                           i29      129     135      141     144      145      145     i45      145     145      145     145
POWER                          431      431     628      892     910    9S6       966      9SS     966      966     966      966
LABOUR                       7,534   7,534   7,846   8,214   8,379   8,453   8,453   8,453   8,453   8,453   8,453   8,453
FACTORY OH                     775      775     807      845     862      869     869      869     869      869     869      869
______    ------    ----   ___     _._---- ----  ------    ------    ------    ------    ------    ------ ----
TOTAL COST OF GOODS         70.276  70,276  70,868  71,589  71,819  71,969  71,969  71,969  71,969  71,969  71,969  71,969
GROSS MARGIN               143,978 143,978 152,261 173,239 185,597 191,571 191,571 191,571 191,571 191,571 191,571 191,571
MARKTNG AND HO               2,970   2,970   3,094   3,239   3,304   3,333   3,333   3,333   3,333   3,333   3,333   3,333
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T 141,008 141,008 149,168 170,001 182,294 188,238 188,238 188,238 188,238 i86,238 188,238 188,238
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T 152,288 164,471 187,908 231,284 265,369 293,204 3i3,728 335,689 359,187 384,330 539,043 756,036
DEPRECIATION                                          1O,008  12,461  12Z,4I  12,461  12,461  IZ,461  14,154  I1,528   6,520
COMMODITY AND SERYICES TA  25,844  27,912  31,395  35,494  38,744  41,819  44,747  47,879  51,231  54,817  76,883 107,833
NET INCOME                 126,444 136,559 156,514 185,782 214,164 238,923 256,520 275,349 295,495 31513G0 445,632 641,684
LOAN INTEREST                   152   2,988   7,886  10,163  10,228   9,298   8,368   7,439   6,509   5,579          930
EPEF                        57,899  61,118  68,086  80,444  93,940 106,234 114,940 124.224 134,124 143,755 206,899 300,002
CONTR                       20,518  Z1,736  24,163  28,552  32,999  37,017  39,963  43,106  46,459  49,808  71,341 102,504
RET EARNINGS                47,876  50,717  56,380  66,622  76,997  86,374  93,248 100,581 108,404 116,218 166,463 239,177
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GCROSS PROFIT YS REYENUES       67       67       68      71       72      73       73      73       73      73       73       73
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV        66       66      67       69       71      71       71      71       71      71       71      71  
RET  EARN  VS REVJENUES         21       20       20      20 2O    Z1               21      21       Z2      22       22       23  
August 26, 1980



BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INCOME STATMENT
PLYMILL 2
1       2        3       4        5        6        7       8        9       10      15       20
SALES VOLUME
TEAK PLYWOOD (OOOSOFT)        1,600   1,300   2.200   2,500   2,500   2,500   2r500   2,500   2,500   2,500   2,500   2,500
TEAK VENEER (OOOSGFT)           500      400   5,000  10,000  14,000  14,000  14,000  14,000  14,000  14,000  14,000  14,000
OTHER PLYWOOD (OOOSOFT)       4,800   4,000   6,600   9r000   9,000          9,000    9-000    9,000    9JO00   6-000  98000   9-000
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
TEAK PLYWOOD                  2.283   1,855   3,139   36568         3,568 3,568 35568 3.568   3,568   3.568   3.568
TEAK VENEER                     383      306   3,830   7,660  10,724  10,724  10,724  10,724  10,724  10,724  10,724  10.724
OTHER PLYWOOD                 4-738   3,948   6.514   81883   8,883   8,883   8,883   8,883   8,883   8,883   8,863   8,883
TOTAL REVENUES                7,404   6,110  13,484  20.111  23.175  23,175  23,175  23,175  23.175  23,175  23,175  23.175
COST OF GOODS SOLD
TEAK LOGS                       384      310   1,740   3,191   4,315   4,315   4.315   4,315   4,315   4,315   4,315   4,315
OTHER LOGS                    1,156      960   1,195   1.591   1,591   1,591   1,591   1,591   1,591   1,591   1.591   1,591
OTHER MATERIAL                1,037      859   1,153   1,507   1,507   1,507   1,507   1,507   1.507   1,507   1,507   1,507
MAINTENAqNCE                    319      319      419     419      419      419     419      419      419      419     419      419
FUEL                            131      131      172     172      172      172     172      172      172      172     172      172
POWER                            19       19     270      270      270      270     270      Z70      270      270     270      270
LABOUR                          961      961   1,193   1.193   1,193   1.193   1.193   1-193   1.193   1.193   1,193   1.193
FACTORY OH                       63       63      23S     239      239      239     239      239      239      239     239      239
TOTAL COST OF GOODS           4.070   3,622   6.381   8.581   9.705   9,705   9.705   9.705   9,705   9.705   9.705  98705
GROSS MARGIN                  3,334   2,487   7,102  11.529  13,469  13.469  13.469  13.469  13,469  13,469  13,469  13,469
MARKTNG AND HO                  138      138     441      441      441      441     441      441      441      441     441      441
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   3.196   2.349   6,661  11.088  13.028  13,028  13,028  13.0Z8  13.028  13,028  13.028  13.028
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   3,451   2.740   8.391  15,085  18.966  20,293  21.714  23.234  24.860  26,600  37.308  52.327
DEPRECIATION                    226   1,873   1,873   1.673   1,873   1.873   1,873   1,873   1,873   2,172   2,592   1.010
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA   2,038   1,816   3,406   4.818   5,303   5.674   6.071   6.496   6.951   7.437  10,431  14.630
NET INCOME                    1.187    -949   3,112   8,394  11,790  12,746  13.770  14.865  16.036  16.991  24.Z85  36.687
LOAN INTEREST                   711   1,422   1,422   1,422   1.422   1,293   1,164   1,034           905      776      129
EPEF                                              151   2.538   4,087   4,559   5.060   5.592   6.156   6,591   9.974  15,524
CONTR                           143               462   1,330   1.884   2,068   2.264   2.471   2.692   2.887   4.255   6.349
RET EARNINGS                    333  -2,371   1.077   3.104   4,397   4,826   5.282   5.767   6.282   6,737   9.927  14.814
RATIOS( PERCENT)
_______________
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES         45       41       53      57       58       58       58      58       58       58       58      58 ' 
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV         43       38       49      55       56       56       56      56       56       56       56      56  
RET  EARN  VS REVENUES            4      -33        6       11      13       13       14       14      14       14       15       16
August 25, 1980



BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INCOME STATMENT
PLYMILL 3
1       2         3        4        5        6        7        8        9        10       15       20
SALES YOLUME
TEAK PLYWOOD (OOOSGFT)         2,400  2Z200   1,200   3,400   3,800   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000
TEAK VENEER (OOOSOFT)                                      2,600   4,600   7,600   7,600   7,600   7,600   7,600   7,600   7,600
OTHER PLYWOOD (0005 FT)       7,200   6,500   3,600  10,300  11,500  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
TEAK PLYWOOD                   3,425   3,139   1,712   4,652   5,423   5,708   5,708   5,708   5,708   5,708   5,708   5,708
l-EAK VENEER                                               1,992   3,524   5,822   5,822   5,822   5,822   5,822   5,822   5,822
OTHER PLYWOOD                  7,106   6,416   3,553  10,166  11,351  11,844  11,844  11,844  11,844  11,844  11,844  11,844
TOTAL REVENUES                10,531   9,555   5,266  17,010  20,297  23,374  23,374  23,374  23,374  23,374  23,374  23,374
COST OF GOODS SOLD
TEAK LOGS                         366      335      183   1,248    1,872   2,745   2,745   2,745   2,745   2,745   2,745   2,745
OTHER LOGS                      1,734   1,5S9       867   1,863   2,080   2,173   2,173   2,173   2,173   2,173   2,173   2,173
OTHER MATERIAL                  1,555   1,409       778   1,795   2,004   Z,096   2,096   2,096   2,096   2,096   2,096   2,096
MAINTENANCE                       316      316      316      753      753      753       753      753      753      753      753      753
FUEL                               32       32       32       85       85        85       85       85       85       85       85       85
POWER                              83       83       83      501      501      501      501       501      501      501      501      501
LABOUR                            7B9      789      789   1,588   1,588   1,588   1,588   1,588   1,588   1,588   1,588   1,588
FACTORY OH                        305      305      305      538      538      538       538      538      538      538      538      538        -
TOTAL COST OF GOODS            5,190   4,839   3,353   8,371   9,421  10,479  10,479  10,479  10,479  10,479  10,479  10,479
GROSS MARGIN                   5,351   4,716   1,913   8,638  10,876  12,894  12,894  12,894  12,894  12,894  12,894  12,894
MARKTNG AND HO                    338      338      338      S88      688      688       688      688      688      688      688      688
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   5,013   4,378   1,575   7,950  10,188  12,206  12,206  12,206  12,206  12,206  12,206  12,Z06
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   5,414   5,107   1,984  10,816  14,830  19,013  20,344  21,768  23,292  24,922  34,955  49,0Z6
DEPRECIATION                      234      234   2,368   2,368   2,368   2,368   2,368   2,368   2,3S8   2,738   3,257   1,142
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA   3,037   2,978   1,771   5,541   6,685   7,599   8,130    8,700   9,309   9,960  13,970  19,593
NET INCOME                     2,144   1,895  -2,155   2.908   5,778   9,047   9,846  10,701  11,615  12,224  17,727  28,291
LOAN INTEREST                              930   l,860   1,860    l,860   1,691    1,522   1,353   1,184   1,015              169
EPEF                              610       20                        771   2,310   2,706   3,125   3,567   3,830   6,319  10,866
CONTR                             460      283               314      944   1,514   i,685   1,867   2,060   2,2i4   3,372   5,227
RET EARNINGS                    1,073      661  -4,015       733   2,203   3,532   3,932   4,356   4,806   5,166   7,868  12,197
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES           51       49       36       51        54       55       55       55       55       55        55       55
PROFIT BEFORE DIT YS REV           48       46       30       47       50        52       52       52       52       52       52        52  u w
RET  EARN  VS REVENUES              9        6      -61        3         7       10       10       10       11        11       12       13
August 25, 1980



BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INCOME STATMENT
FID
1       2        3       4        5        G       7        8        9       10      15       20
SALES YOLUME
FURNITURE-LOCAL(PC)          28,600  28,600  66,000  84,600 103,300 103,300 103,300 103,300 103,300 103,300 103,300 103,300
FURNITURE-EXPORT(PC)          6,000   6,6OO  11,6OO  16,600  21,600  2G6600  35,000  35,000  35,000  35,000  35,000  35,000
PAReUET-LOCAL                   576      576     685      740      794     794      794      794     794      794      794     794
PARQUET-FOREIGN              56,700  56,700 127,100 162,100 197,300 197,300 197,300 197,300 197,300 197,300 197,300 197,300
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS.)
REVENUE
FURNITURE-LOCAL               5,148   5,148   9,834  12,182  14,565  14,565  14,565  14,565  14,565  14,565  14,585  14,565
FURNITURE-EXPORT              1,200   1,320   2,320   3,320   4,320   5.320   7,000   7,000   7,000   7,000   7,000   7,000
PARQUET-LOCAL                   726      726     863      932   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000
PAROUET-FOREIGN               4,082   4,082   9,151  11,671  14,206  14,206  14,206  14,206  14,206  14,206  14,206  14,Z06
TOTAL REVENUES               11,156  11,276  22,168  28,106  34,091  35,091  36,771  36,771  36,771  36,771  36,771  36,771
COST OF GOODS SOLD
TIMBER                        2,016   2,034   4,21S   5,378   6,545   S,699   6,956   6.956  6S956   6,956   6.956  6S956.
PLYWOOD                         207      211     464      606      748     777      828      828     828      828      828      828
OTHER MATERIAL                  122      125      275     358      442      460     489      489      489     489      489      489
MAINTENANCE                     SZO      620      750     810      880      880     880      880      880     880      880      880
FUEL                             20       20       40      40       50       50      50       50       50      50       50       50
POWER                            30       30      90      120      150      150     150      150      150     150      150      150
LABOUR                        1,600   1,600   2,720   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3.100   3.100   3,100   3,100
FACTORY OH                      200      200     500      590      590      590     590      590      590     590      590      590
TOTAL COST OF GOODS           4,815   4,839   9.055  11,002  12,505  12.70G  13.043  13,043  13.043  13,043  13,043  13,043
GROSS MARGIN                  6,341   6,437  13,113  17,104  21,586  22,386  23,728  23,728  23,728  23,728  23,728  23,728
MARKTNG AND HO                  220      220      480     560      560      560     560      560      560     560      560      560
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   6,121   6.217  12,633  16,544  21,026  21,826  23,168  23,168  23.168  23,168  23,168  23,168
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR.INT AND T   6S610   7.251  15,914  22,508  30,609  33,998  38,614  41,317  44,209  47.303  66,345  93,053
DEPRECIATION                    120      120   3,609   3.609   3,609   3.609   3,609   3,609   3,609   4,137   4,878   1,883
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA   3,434   3.744   6,410  11,601  15.120  16.572  18,441  19.731  21.113  22,590  31,684  44-439
NET INCOME                    3,057   3,387   3.895   7,297  11,880  13.815  16,564  17,976  19.487  20,576  29,784  46,731
LOAN INTEREST                   181   1.639   2,916   2,916   2,916   2,651   2,386   2.121   1.856   1,591            265
EPEF                            988      386              644   2.594   3.540   4,853   5,548   6,282   6,767  10,983  18,318
CONTR                           566      409      294   1,121   1,911   2,287   2.797   3,092   3.405   3.665   5.561   8.524
RET EARNINGS                  1,321      954      685   2.616   4,458   5.337   6.527   7.215   7.945   8,552  12.975  19,889
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES         57       57       59      61       63       64       65      65       65       65      65       65
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV         55       55       57      59       62       62      63       63       63       63      63       63  & 
RET  EARN  VS REVENUES           11        7        2       7        9       10       11      11       11       11      12       13  M'
August 26, 1980



BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INCOME STATMENT
OTHER INCOME
l   2   3  4     5        6        7        8        9       10       15       20
ILOSSES REDUCED(TONS)                     500      500      500      500      500     500      500      500      500      500      500
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
LOSSES REDUCED                          1,155   i,155   1,155   1,155   1,155   1,155   1,155   1,155   1,155   1,155   1,155
OYERHEAD COSTS
MAINTENANCE                               135      135      135      135      135      135      135      135     135      135      135
F UEL                            117      207      207      207       20       20       20       20      20       20       20       20
P OWER                            16       16       IG       16
LABOUR                           15S      179      17        79       20       20       20       20       20      20       20       20
OTHER                             50       50       50       50
TOTAL OVERHEAD                   342      587      587      587      i75      175      175      175     175      175      175      175
__ _ _ _  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -
CROSS MARGIN                    -342      568      568      560      880     980      980      980      980      980      980      980
IMARKTNC AND HO
. __      _      __   __      _   __ __--_--_- -- --  --_- ---  - -- -- - ----- ------  --  - -- - --  - -- - --  - -- - --  -- -- --   _
INCOME 8EF DEPR,INT AND T    -342         568      568     5G8      980      980      980      980      980      980      980      980
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T    -369         t,63     '716     773   1,427   1,526   1,G33   1,748    1,870   2,001   2,606   3,936
DEPRECIATION                            1,570   1,570   4,407   5,209   5,209   5,209   5,Z09   5,209   5,209   5,ZO9              802
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA
NET INCOME                      -369    -908    -855  -3,634  -3,78Z  -3,882  -3,576  -3,461  -3,339  -3,208  -2,403   3,134
LOAN INTEREST                    G86   1,437   2,198   2,930   2,963   Z, 694   2,424   2,155   1,886   1,616             269
I_PEF                                                                                                                            1,492
CONTR
__ _ _ _                                  _ _ _ _  - - - - - - _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _  _ _ _  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -
RET EARNINGS                  -i,05G  -2,344  -3,053  -6,563  -6,746  -6,376  -6,000  -5,616  -5,225  -4,824  -2,672    1,149
RATIOS (PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES         IEB       49       49       49       85       85       85       85       85       85       85       85
PROFIT BEFORE nTT VS REV                   49       49       49       85       85       85       85       85       85       85       85
RET  EARN  YS REVENUES                   -174    -210    -418    -401    -354    -312    -273    -237    -205             -81       25
August 26, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Timber Corporation - Balance Sheet
1           2           3           4           5           6            7           8           9          10
(Millions of Kyats)
Assets
Current
Cash                           128         139         152          166         181         195         211         228          245        265
Accounts Receivable            783         845          916         994       1,077       1,164       1,257       1,358       1,469       1,584
Inventories                  1,128       1,219       1,319       1,427       1,543        1,667       1,800       1,944       2,100      2,268
Total Current Assets           2,039       2,203       2,387        2,587       2,801       3,026       3,268        3,530       3,814      4,117
Fixed Assets                   1,229       1,472       1,624        1,664       1,699       1,737       1,778       1,822        1,869      1,967
Less Accumulated                 393         477          567         673         786         899       1,017        1,136       1,260      1,389
Depreciation
Net Fixed Assets                 836         995        1,057         991         913         838         761          686         609        578
Other Assets                     106           30          21         155         284         429         586          752         928      1,070
Total Assets                   2,981       3,228        3,465       3,733       3,998       4,293       4,615       4,968        5,351      5,765      l
Liabilities
Current
Accounts Payable               949       1,031       1,114       1,205        1,302       1,406       1,519       1,640       1,771       1,913
Current Portion LTD            121          91           37          57          57          57          57           57          57         57
Total Current                  1,070       1,122       1,151        1,262       1,359       1,463       1,576       1,697        1,828      1,970
Long Term Debt                   766         802          829         775         718         662         605          549         492        435
Total Liabilities              1,836       1,924       1,980        2,037       2,077       2,125       2,181       2,246        2,320      2,405
Invested Capital                 127         127          127         127         127         127         127          127         127        127
Retained Earnings              1,018       1,117       1,358        1,569       1,794       2,041       2307        2,595        2,904      3,233
Total Equity                   1,145       1,304       1,485        1,696       1,921       2,168       2,434                    3,031      3,360
Total Liabilities and            2,981       3,228        3,465       3,733       3,998       4,293       4,615        4,968       5,351      5,765
Owners Equity
Selected Ratios:
Lt Debt vs Equity                  .67          .62         .54         .46         .37          .31         .25         .20         .16        .13
Current Ratio                     1.91        1.96         2.07        2.05        2.06        2.07        2.07         2.08        2.09       2,09
Debt Service Coverage             3.38        4.22         7.14        6.98        7.72        8.80         9.85       11.13       12.51      13.92
September 30, 1980                                              
(D >q
I-.t,



BURMA-WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
PROJECT UNIT
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
1       2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9       10      15       20
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                3,995  10,742  12,695  16OB9  18,594  20,499  22,041  23,584  25,235  27,001  37,870  53,115
INVENTORIES                        6,479  23,230  26,71G  31,913  35,440  38,451  41,283  44,173  47,265  50,574  70,933  99,487
ACCTS RECEIYABLES                  36,135  23,462  27,729  35,142  40,613  44,775  48,142  51,512  55,117  58,976  82,716 116,014
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS              46,609  57,434  67,140  83,144  94,647 103,726 111,466 119,269 127,617 136,551 191,519 268,616
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                101,563 301,630 423.102 431.486 431.486 431,486 431.486 431,486 431,486 477,724 542,575 542,575
LESS ACCM DEPRECIATION              7,878  11, 75  21.096  43,361  68,881  94,402 119,922 145,442 170,963 199,373 345,478 475,273
NET FIXED ASSETS                   93,885 289,955 402.006 388.125 362,605 337,084 311,564 286,044 260,523 278,351 197.097  67.302
OTHER ASSETS CUM                   14,056  14,056   6,964  74,273 150,742 241,914 343,735 454,894 575,550 GS2,0491439,4722732.499
TOTAL ASSETS                     154,350 361,444 476,110 545,543 607,994 682,724 766,766 860,206 963,6911076,9511828,0893068,417
LIABILITIES
CURRENT PORTION LT DEBT                                      19,200  19,200  19,200  19-200  19,200  19,200  19,200
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES          23,405   7,376   8,402   9,974  11,095  12,040  12929  13,835  14.803  15,839  22,215  31,158
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES         23,405   7,376   8,402  29,174  30,294  31,240  32,129  33,034  34,003  35,039  22,215  31,158
LONG TERM DEBT                     37,702 145,624 209,022 192,000 172,800 153,600 134,400 115,200  96,000  76,800
EQUITY
PAID IN CAPITAL                    17,858  85,882  85.882  85,882  85,882  85,882  85.882  85,882  85,882  85,882  85,882  85,882
RET EARNINGS CUMULATIVE            75,386 122,562 172,805 238,487 319,019 412,003 514,355 626,091 747,807 879,2301719,9922951,377
TOTAL EQUITY                       93,244 20C3,444 258,G87 324,370 404,901 497,885 S00,237 711,973 833,689 965,1131805,8753037,26O
LIABILITIES&NET 14ORTH            154,351 361,445 476,111 545,544 607,995 682,725 766,767 960,207 963,S92107S,9521B28,0903068,4$8
LT DEBT YS EQUITY                    .40      .70      .81     .59      .43      .31      .22      .16      .12      .08
CURRENT RATIO                       1.99    7.79    7.99    2.85    3.12    3.32    3.47    3.61    3.75    3.90    8.62    8.62
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE              70.58   15.69    9.58   10.61    6.58    7.72    8.73    9.87   11.18   12.71   25.92
February 10, 1981



BURMA-WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
PROJECT UNIT
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
1       2       3        4       5       6        7       8        9      10      15       20
SOURCES
NET INCOME                      132,462 139,984 160,512 200.747 239,829 270,848 293,123 315,429 339,295 361,942 515,026 756,526
DEPRECIATION                        580   3,797   9,420  22,265  25,520  25-520  25,520  25,520  25,520  28,410  32,464  11,356
DECREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL
IDA LOAN                         37,702 107,922  63,397   2,178
EOUITY INVESTMENT                         68,024
TOTAL SOURCES                   170,744 319,729 233,330 225,190 265,350 296-369 318,644 340.949 364,815 390,352 547,490 767,882
APPLICATIONS
____________
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL              26,853   8,681  14,432  10,382   8.133   S,851   6,898   7,380   7,897  11,076  15r535
NEW FIXED ASSETS                 73,659 200,067 121,472   8,384                                              46,238  64,851              1
OTHER ASSETS                     14,056           -7,092  67,309  76,469  91,171 101,822 111,159 120,658  86,499 131,826 283,049          >
DEBT REPAY                                                         19,200  19.200  19,200  19,200  19,200  19,200  19,200                1
LOAN INTEREST                     1,885   9,166  17,732  21,011  21,120  19.200  17,280  15,360  13,440  11,520   1,920
EPEF                             59,481  61,295  67,821  82,978  0oo,66o 115,977 126,961 137,956 149,663 160,544 234,109 346,201
CONTRIBUTION TO STATE            21,664  22,347  24,715  31,075  37,519  42-S87  46,530  50,377  54,476  58,454  84,508 123,097
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              170,744 319,729 Z33,330 225,190 265,350 296,389 3.8,644 340,949 364,815 390,352 547,490 767,882
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE             70.58   15.69    9.58   10.61    6.58    7.72    8.73    9.87   11.18   12.71   25.92
February 10, 1981



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Sawmills - Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                Without Project
Operating   Capital     Net                   Operating   Capital      Net
Year   Revenue       Costs      Costs      Flow       Revenue      Costs      Costs      Flow      Incremental
1     Z14.3        97.2         9.3      107.8      214.3        97.2          .0      117.1        -9.3
2     214.3        97.2       134.5      -17.5       214.3       97.2        42.4       74.7       -92.2
3      -3.1        96.9        73.6       50.8      214.3        97.4         3.2      113.7       -63.1
4     244.8       100,9         9.1      134.8      214.3        97.5         3.2      113.5        21.2
5     257.4       101.7         4.6      151.1       214.3       97.7         2.8      113.7        37.4
6     263.5       102.2         3.9      157.5       214.3       97.9         2.8      113.5        44.0
7     263.5       102.2         3.2      158.2       214.3       98.1         2.8      113.3        44.9
8     263.5       102.2         3.2      158.2      214.3        98.3         2.8      113.1        45.1
9     ZG3.5       lozu          3.2      158.2       214.3       98.5         2.8      112.9        45,3
10     2G3.5       10W.2        16.4      144.9       214.3       98.8         2.8      112.7        32.3
11     263.5       102           3.       158.2       214.3       99.0         2.8      112.5        45.7
12     203.5       1012.2        3.2      158.2       214.3       99.2         2.8      112.2        46.0
13     263.5       102.2         3.2      158.2       203.7       94.5           .7      108.5       49.7
14     2b3.5       102.Z         3.2      15B.2       193.6       89.7           .6      103.2       55.0
15     263.5       102.2        16.4      144.9       184.0       85.2           .6      98.2        46.8
16     263.5       102.2         3.2      158.2       175.0       81.0           .6       93.4       64.8
17     263.5       102.2         3.2      158.2       166.3       76.9           .6      88.9        69.4
18     263.5       102.2         3.2      158.2       158.1       73.1          .5        84.5       73.7
19     263.5       102.2         3.2      158.2       150.4       69.4           .5       80.4       77.8
2.0     263.5      102.2       -88.3      249.7       143.0        66.0      -24.3       101.3      148.4
Pv-   2,062.0       841.4       208.6    1,012.0   1,739.0         795.6       50.5       893.0      119.1
Financial Rate of Return = 21%
August 25, 1980
I-A



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plymill 2 - Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                              Without Project
Operating    Capital     Net                 Operating    Capital       Net
Year    Revenue    Costs        Costs     Flow        Revenue    Costs       Costs       Flow    Incremental
1       7.4         6.1       24.6      -23.3         7.4         6.1         .0         1.3      -24.6
z        6.1        5.3       -.3          3.1        6.6         5.6       -2.2         3.2        -.I
3       13.5        9.5         1.G        2.3        6.0         5.3          .0         .8        1.6
20.1        12.6         1.6        G.0        5.5         4.9          .0         .6        5.4
5      23.2        13.6          .9        8.5        4.9         4.6         .0          .3        8.1
6      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .0         .1        8.9
7      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
8      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
9      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0      1
10      23.2        13.8        2.7         6.7        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        6.7      O
J.      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
12      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
13      23.2        13.B          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
14      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
15      23.2        13.8        2.7         6.7        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        6.7
16      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
17      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1.       4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
18      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
19      23.2        13.8          .3        9.1        4.4         4.3          .1         .1        9.0
20       23.2       13.8      -10.3        19.7         4.4        4.3          .1         .1       19.6
PV'-     153.0       95.8        27.1       30.0       44.2        40.3       -1.7         5.6       24.4
Financial Rate of Return = 22%
August 25, 1980
^ 1



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plymill 3 - Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                 Without Project
Operating    Capital      Net                  Operating   Capital         Net
Year    Revenue      Costs        Costs      Flow       Revenue      Costs      Costs        Flow     Incremental
1        C10.5       8.3          .0        2.2        10.5         8.3          .0         2.7          .0
9.6        7.7         8.3        -6.5         9.6         7.7      -21.0         22.8      -2Y.3
3        5.3         5.i         -.7          .9        8.7         7.2          .0         1.5         -.6
4       17.0        13.1         2.6         1.3        7.8         6.7           .0        1.2          .1
5       20.3        14.7          .9         4.7        7.0         8.2           .0          .9        3.8
8       23.4        16.0          .9         6.4        6.4         5.8           .0          .6        5.8
7       23.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1           .5        6.5
8       23.4        18.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1           .5        6.5
9       23.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8           .1          .5        6.5
10       23.4        16.0         3.2         4.1        6.4         5.8          .1           .5        3.6
11       23.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1           .5        6.5
12       23.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1          .5         6.5
13       Z3.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1          .5         6.5
14       23.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1          .5         6.5
15       23.4        16.0         3.2         4.1        6.4         5.8          .1           .5        3.6
16       23.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1          .5         6.5
17       23.4        16.(:0        .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1          .5         6.5
18       23.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8           .1          .5        6.5
19       23.4        16.0          .3         7.0        6.4         5.8          .1          .5         6.5
20       23.4        16.0        -7.0        14.3         6.4         5.8         4.6       -4.0        18.3
pt-     149.4       107.4       1i.8         30.2        63.6       54.7       -17.9        26.9         3.3
Financial Rate of Return = 14%
August 25, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
FID - Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                 Without Project
Operating   Capital      Net                   Operating   Capital      Net
Year     Revenue      Costs      Costs      Flow       Revenue       Costs      Costs      Flow    Incremental
1       11.2        8.7         8.0       -5.1        11.2        8.2          .0        2.9        -8.0
2       11.3        8.3        51.1      -48.1        11.3        8.3         9.0       -6.0       -42.2
3       22.2       16.2         2.4        3.6        11.3        8.3          .2         2.8          .8
4       28.1       20.1         1.5        6.5        11.3        8.3          .2         2.8        3.7
5       34.1       23.5         1.5        8.2        11.3        8.3          .Z         2.9        6.3
6       35.1       23.9          .6       10.6        11.3        8.3          .2         2.9        7.7
7       36.8       24.7          .7       1i.4        11.3        8.3          .2         2.9        8.5
8       36.8       24.7          .5       11.6       i.3         8.3          .o         2.9        8.8
9       36.8       24.7          .5       11.6        1i.3         6.3         .2         2.9        8.8       I
10       36.8       24.7         4.1         7.5       11.3        8.3          ,_         2.9        4.6      0
11      3G.8        24.7          .5       i1.6        11.3        8.3          .2         2.9        8.8
12       36.8       24.7          .5       11.6        11.3        8.3          .          2.9        8.8
13      36.6        24. 7         .5       11.6        11.3        8.3          .2         2.9        8.8
14      36.8        Z4.7          .5       1i.6        11.3        8.3          .2         2.9        8.8
i5      36.8        24.7         4.         7.5       i1.3          8.3         .2         2.9        4.6
l0      36.8       24.7          .5D       11.6       11.3        8.3          .2         2.9        8.8
17      31.8         4.7          .5       11.6        11.3         8.3         .2         2.9        8.B
18       36.8       Z4.7          .5       11.8        11.3         8.3          .2        2.9        8.8
18       36.8       Z4./          .1 1.G              1.3.3          3         .2         2.9        8.8
20       36i.6      24.7       -1.8        34.0        11.3         8.3       -3.5         6.5       27.6
FV-      238.6      164.1        58.5        15.2       84.2        69.1        8.6        16.5       -1.3
Financial Rate of Return  12%
August 25, 1980                                                                                              Fl



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Storage and Handling - Financial Flows and Returns
(Thousands of Constant Kyats)
Losses                Incremental                  Fixed Asset                Net Cash
Year               Reduced               Operating Costs               and W. Capital               Flow
1                      -                          -                      4,846                   -4,846
2 - 20               1,155                        175                         11                       969
Financial Rate of Return = 19%
A8
August 28, 1980 



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Project - Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                Without Project
Operating   Capital      Net                 Operating    Capital       Net
Year   Revenue      Costs      Costs       Flow      Revenue    Costs        Costs       Flow    Incremental
1     243.3       120.2       68.2        55.0      243.3       119.8          .0      123.5      -68.5
2     242.3       119.1       199.8      -76.5      241.7       118.8        28.1       94.8    -171.3
3     265.2       130.3       104.0       30.9      240.2       118.1         3.3      118.8       -87.9
4     311.2       147.3        17.8      146.2      23B.8       117.4         3.3      118.1        28.0
5     336.1       153.9         7.9      174.4      237.4       11G.7         2.9      117.8        56.6
6     346.3       156.1         5.6      184.5      236.3       116.3         2.9      117.1        67.4
7     348.0       15G.8         4.6      186.6      236.3       116.5         3.1      116.7        69.9
6     348.0       156.8         4.3      186.9      236.3       116.7         3.1      116.5        70.3
9     348.0       156.8         4.3      186.9      236.3       116.9         3.1      116.3        70.6      o
10     348.0       156.8        27.0      164.2      236.3       117.1         3.1      116.1        48.1
11     348.0       156.8         4.3      186.9      236.3       117.3         3.1      115.9        71.0
12     348.0       156.8         4.3      186.9      236.3       117.5         3.1      115.6        71.2
13     348.0       156.8         4.3      166.9      225.7       112.8         1.0      111.9        75.0
14     348.0       156.8         4.3      186.9      215.7       108.1         1.       106.6        80.2
15     346.0       156.8        27.0      164.2      206.1       103.6          .9      101.6        62.6
16     348.0       156.8         4.3      186.9       197.0       99.3          .9       96.8        90.1
17     348.0       156.8         4.3      186.9       188.4       95.3          .9       92.3        94.6
18     348.0       156.8         4.3      186.9       180.2       91.4          .9       87.9        98.9
19     348.0       156.8         4.3     16.9        172.4       87.8          .8       83.8       103.0
20     348.0       156.8    -143.8        334.9       165.0       84.3       -23.1      103.9       231.1
Pv-   2,611.7    1,211.4        362.4   1,038.0    1,941.1        959.7        39.4      942.0        96.0
Financial Rate of Return = 16%
August 27, 1980



BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LNCOME STQTMENT
PROJECT UNIT(WITHOUT PROJECT)
*       Z        3        4       5        G        7        8        9       l0      15       20
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REYENUE
LOCAL                        41,372  39,617  38,201  3G,786  35,470  ;34,395  34,395  34,395  34,395  34,395  32,185  29,179
EXPORT                      U01,973 202,093 202,017 202,017 201,940 201,940 201,940 201,940 201,940 20I,940 173,942 135,867
-OTAL REVJENUES             243,345 241,710 240-,218 238,803 237,410 238,335 23G,335 236,335 236,335 236,335 20G,126 165,046
COST OF GOODS SOLD
RAW MATERIALS                66r958  88,372  67,850  G7,356  66,870  S6,492  6G,492  G6G492  6G,492  66,492  57,8e1  46,171
MAINTENANCE                   2,288   2,288   2,288   2,288   2,268   2,288   2,268   2,288   2,288   2,282   2,141   1,940
FUEL                            312      312      312      312      312     312      312      312      312      312      294     2G9
POWER                           563      563      563      563     563      563      563      563      563      563     501      418
LABOUR                       10,884  10,884  11,0G5  11,250  11439  11,633  il,832  12,r036  12,244  12,458  11,735   9r838
FACTORY OH                    1,343   1,343   l,343   1,343   1,343   1,343   1,343   1,343   1,343   1,343   1,232   1,082
-IOTAL COST OF GOODS         84,347  93,762  33,420  83,111  82,815  82,631  82,830  B3r033  83r242  83,455  73,783  59,717
CiROSS MARGIN               158,998 157,348 15G,798 155,692 154,595 153,704 153,506 153,302 153,094 152,660 132,343 105,328                 l
MARKTNG AND HO                3,686   3,866   3,666   3,666   3,68S  3,666   3,G66    3,G66    3,G66    3,G66    3,243   2,667              00
iNCOME aEF DEPR,INT  ND T  155,332 154,282 153,132 152,026 150,928  50,O38  149,839 149,636 149,427 149,214 129,100 102,862
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR-INT AND T 167,758 1790954 [92,9 02 206,829 219,710 233,703 249,731 266,849 285,130 304,654 369,695 412,328
DEPRECIATbON                    580      580      580      580      580     580      580      580      580      580      580     580
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA  34,353  36,590  39,041  41,853  44,054  46,698  49,967  53,464  57,207  61,211  76,079  88r063
NET INCOME                  i32,825 i42,785 153,281 164,59G 175,076 186,425 199,184 212,804 227,343 242,e8G2 293,037 323rS86
LOAN INTEREST
I-PEF                        59,9i2  64,435  65,174  74r372  79,256  84,G03  90,347  96,477 103,016 109,992 132,318 145,709
CONTR                        Zi,674  23,505  25,232  277,(67  28,746  30,557  32,657  34,900  37,298  39,861  48,216  53r393
RET EARNINGS                 51,038  54,845  58,875  63,157  G7,075  71,ZG5  7G,179  81r428  87,029  93,0)9 112,503 1 24,584
liAT 1OSlPERCENT)
. ..   _   .-   _.  - - - - - - _-  .       
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES         65       65       65       65       65       65      65       65       65       65       64       64
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV         64       64       64       64       64      G3       63       63       63       G3       63       62    > >
RET  EARN  VS REVENUES           19       19       19       19      19       19       19       19       19      19       19       19
August 26, 1980



EURMA- WODD TNDUSTRIES PROjECT
INCOME STATMENT
SAvjMILLS(WITHOUT PROJECT)
2       _        4        5        6        7       9                IClO     15       _
SALES 'iLUME
IOCAL(TONS)                   8,610   8,6i0   86:0i   8,61G    3,SlO   8,610   8,610   3,GiO   8,610   8,1iO   7,382   5,712
EXPORT(TONS)                 34,440  34,440  34,440  34,440  34,440  34,440  34,440  34,440  34,440  34,440  29,529  22,848
FlIREWOOD(TONS)              28,,80  28,800  28,B00  28,800  28,600  28,800  26,800  ZB,800  28,800  28,8Ci0  28,800  28,800
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
LOCAL                        15,498  i5,498  15,498  i5,45   i5,4E5   15,498  15,498  15,49e  15,458  15,498  13,288  10,282
L'XPORT                    1i6,30E  196,3013 196,30:  19G,308;O 196,308 19l,308 196,308 196,308 lS6,308 136,308 168,310 130,235
FIREA8OD                      2,443   2,448   Z,448   2,448   2,448   2,448   Z,446   Z1446 2,448   2,448 22446   2,448
TOTAL. REVENUES             214,254 2^14,254 214,254 214,254 ' *,254 2:4,Z54 214,254 2.4,254 214,254 214,254 184,045 142,964
L.OST OF GOODS SOLD
i EAK\ LgD-OGS               G0,374  60,374  60,374  60,374  60,374  60,374  60,374  60,374  60,374  60,374  51,763  40,054
MAINTENANCE                   I ,3    ,0 3   C   ,033   I I033     , r 033   i , 033  1, 033   1 I 033   1,033   1 , 033  886    685
F UEL                            19       ZS i929          12Z9     129E    128       Z9      129      129      i29      I1       86
F'CWER                          431      431      431      431      43:      431     43i      431      431      431      369    Z6
LABtOUR                       7,53,4   7,5-     7 7,715   7,300   8,0S0  89,283   8,482   8,66B   8,894   9,108   8,385   6,488
FACTORY OH                       775    '77       775      775      775                                                  6G4      514
TOTAL COST OF 500DED         70 , 275  70,27S  70 , 457  70, 64Z  70,831  71,026  71 ,224  71,428  71,636  71,850  62,178  48,112           00
CRoSS MARCIIN               i43,s7a 143,978 143,797 i43,612 143,423 i43,228 143,030 142,82G 142,618 i42,404 121,867  94,852
NARKTNG AND HO                2,970   Z  970C  2, 70   2,970   2,970   2,970  Z2,970   2,970   2,970   2,970   2,r47   1,971
iNCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T 141,008 141,000 140,827 140,642 140,45Z 140,258 i40,059 139,856 139,647 139,434 119,320  9Z,682
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T 152,268 164,471 i77,401 191,341 Z04,459 21B,4G9 233,431 Z49,408 26,469 284,685 341,689 373O048
DEPRECI AT ION
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA  25,844  27,9S12  30,i45  32,556  34,835  37,274  39.883  42,675  45,662  48,858  58,753  G3,762
NiET I NCOME                12S,444 136,559 147,256 158,765 lGSG 624 181,195 193,548 206,733 220,807 235,827 282,936 309,286
L-OAN INTEREST
lPEF                         57,974  62,G6Z  i7,496  72,757  77,690  8Z,S71  88,597  94,599 101,002 107,833 lZ9,263 141,397
CONTR                        2o,541  22,184  23,928  25,808  27,578  29,467  31,485  33,640  35,941  38,398   46,102  50,367
RET EARNINGS                 47,9289  51,753  55,83_  60,2159  64,348  68,757  73,466  78,494  83,863  89,596 107,571 117,522
RAT I OF  PERCENT)
LROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES          67       67      67       67       67       67       E7       67       67      66       G6       66
,-ROF;- BEFORE DIT YS REV         GS6      65           66       6    6 S     65       65       65       65      65       65       65 5  F
RET  EARN  V/S REVENUES           21      Z        21      2Z        2.      Z        Z1      21       2,       20       20       20   m
co 4,



BURM"(- WOOD -NDUS  1120E FROJEC?'
7NCOME STATMENT
PL'MILL 2(WITHOUT PROJECT)
I                                              8          7        8        -                  .3       20
i.-LES :JOLLME
112AK PLY WOOD ( OOOS0FT 1       i 8 0 C    1 400    1 , 300Jo  1 ,j Coo    ;, tooo it0     ,oo O         ,0o    : 000    I co(o    I I (Oo    I I oco
I EAK VENEER  OOO-)(SGFT           500       500       400-)    400       300      300)       300      300 (    300       301)0     3 l0 C;C 00
OTHER PLYWOOD (CO"OOF8T)         4,800    4,300    3,900    3.500    3,1I00    2,800CI   2,800    2,800    2,800    2,800u   2,800    2,800
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KY4ATS.I
1IX E 1; E N LI 
XEAK PLYWOOD                     2,2013   11908    1,8 515   1,712    1,570    1,4Z7    I,4-27    1,427    1,427    1,427    1,427    1,4277
IEAK VENEER                        383       383       308 C    306       230      230       2130      230      230       230       230      230
OTHER3 PLYiWOOD                  4,7J8    4,244    3,849   3,455    3,060    2,784   2,764   2,764    2,764   2-7674   2,784   2,764
[IOT4L REVENUES                  7,404    56825   G6,01 i1    5,473    4,859    4,420   4,420    4,420    4 420C   4,420    4,420   4,420
COST OF G000S SOLD
IEAK LOGS                          384  ~354          3j        2859-     2527      237      237       237      237       237      2737      2737
1OTHER LOGS                      1,158    1,034        941      840       755       683      683       883      603       683       683      883
OTHER MATERIAL                   1,037      S923       842-     78L       GOO                818GI     616      616       818       GI8      816s
MAINTENANCE                        31b       313       318      318       319       319      319       319      319       318       319      319
0CCE                               .31       i31      13l      131       131      131       131.     131       131       131      131       131
I-OWER                               is       1s        I9       19        19        19       19        1s        19       19)       19        1s
1.ABOLUR                           981      981       98l.      961Sc    981       98I       981      961       98G1      961      961       961
iACFORY OH                          83        63       63        63        63       63        63        63       63        63       83        63
!OTAL COST OF G0008             4,072'   3,804   3,587    3.298    3,180J   3,028    3,02-8    3,028    3,028    3,028    3,028s   3,028
GROSS MARG3IN                    3,331    2,820   2,424    2,078    1,679    1,393    1,393    1,393    1,393    1.393    1,393    1,393
hARK7NI3 AND HO                    138       138       138      136       138       138      138       138       138      138       138       138
INCOME BEE DEPR,INT AND T   3,193    2,682    2,28G    1,938    1,541    1.255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1.25 1255    1,255
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   3,449   3,129   2,879   2,636    2.243    1,954   2,091    2.237    2,394   2.,561    3,592    5,039
DEPRECIATION                        22-6     228       226      '226      228       226      226       226       226      226       226G      226
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA   2,038    1,956    1,931    1,894    1.817    1.7G62    ,885   2,017    2,158   -2,309    3,239    4,543
LE'T INCOME                      1,185       947       7 22     518       200       -34       -20       -6         9        26      127      2770
LOAN INTEREST
C PEE                               252      13 J5      1l
CONTR                               28 24 44           2i        IS 85      0                                      3         8       38        81I
NET EARNINGS                        653      589       492      361       i 40      -34      -20        -6         7        i8       89       189
RATIOS) PERCENT)
Di-OSS PROFIT VS REVENUES            45       43        40        38       35        3 2       32       32        32        32       32        32
!'ROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV            43       40        38        35       32        28        Z   28  26El 28Z 28 28                          28
RET  EARN  VS REVENUES                8)        7        7         5        2                                                          1        1   10
August 25, 1980



BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INCOME STATMENT
PLYMILL 3(WITHOUT PROJECT)
I       2        3        4        5        6        7        a        9       10      15       20
SALES YOLUME
lEAK PLYWOOD (000SQFT)         2,400   2,20   2,00o   1r800   1600   i-,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   i,500   1,500
JEAK YENEER (OOOSQFT)
OrHER PLYWOOD (OOOSOFT)        7,200   6,500   5,900   5,300   4,800   4,300   4,300   4,300   4,300   4,300   4-300   4,300
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT NYATS)
REVENUE
-iEAK PLYWOOD                  3,425   3,139   2,854  2Z569   2,233   2,141   2-141   2,141   2,141   2,141   2,141   2,141
TEAK VENEER
OTHER PLYWOOD                  7,106   6,416   5,823   5,231   4,738   4,244   4,244   4,244   4,244   4,244   4,244   4,244
TOTAL REVENUES                10,531   9,555   8,677   7,800   7,021   6,385   6,385   6,385   6,385   6,385   6,385   6,385
COST OF G00DS SOLD
lEAK LOGS                        366      335      305      274     244      229      ZZ9      229      229      229      229      229
OTHER LOGS                     1,738   1,572   1,427   1,282   1,158   1,045   1,045   1,045   1,045   1,045   1,045   1,045
OTHER MATERIAL                 1,555   1,409   1,280   1,150   1,037         940      940      940      940      940      940      940
MAINTENANCE                      316      316      316      316      316     316      316      316      316      316      316      316
F'UEL                             3Z       3Z       32       32       32       32      32       32       32       32       32       32
POWER                             83       83       83       83       83      83       83       83       83       83       83       83
LABOUR                           789      789      789      789      789      789     789      789      789      789      789      789
FACTORY OH                       305      305      305      305      305     305      305      305      305      305      305      305
-OTAL COST OF  OODS           5,183   4,84Z   4,537   4,232   3,9S4   3,738   3,738   3,738   3,738   3,738   3,738   3,738
GROSS MARGIN                   5,348   4,713   4,140   3,568   3,057   2,G47   2,647   2,647   2,647   2,647   Z,647   2,647
MARKTNG AND HO                   338      338      338      338      338      338     338      338      338      338      338      338
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   5,010   4,375   3,802   3,230   2,719   2,309   2,309   2,309   2,309   2,309   2,309   2,309
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   5,410   5,103   4,790   4,394   3,958   3,59G   3,848   4,117   4,406   4,714   6,612   9,273
DEPRECIATION                     Z34      234      234      234      234      234     234      234      234      234      234      234
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA   3,037   2,978   2,921   2,836   2,7Z   2,6Z  2,849   3,048   3,262   3,490   4,895   6,865
NET INCOME                     2,140   l,891   1,635   1,324         995      700      765     835      910      990   1,483   2,174
LOAN INTEREST
EPEF                             608      483      353      197       36
CONTR                            460      422      385      338      Z88      210     230      251      273      297      445      652
REr EARNINGS                   1,072      986      898      788      671      490      536     585      637      693   1,038   1,522
RATIOS(PERCENT)
UROSS PROFIT YS REYENUES          51       49       48       46       44       41       41      41       41       41       41       4i
FROFIT BEFORE DIT YS REY          48       46       44       41       39       36       36      36       36       36       36       36   r w
RET  EARN  VS REVENUES             9        9        8        7        7        5                      5                    6 
August 25, 1980



BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INCOME STATMENT
FID(WITHOUT PROJECT)
3        4        5        6        7        a        9       i0      i5       20
SALES VOLUME
FURNITURE-LOCAL(PC)           28,600  28,600  28,600  28,600  26,600  28,600  28,600  28,600  28,600  28,600  28,600  26,600
FURNITURE-EXPORT(PC)           S,OOO   6,6OO   6,6OO   (,600   6,6OO  O6,60o   6,600   6,6SO 6O 600 6,600   6,60)  6S600
PARGUET-LOCAL                    576      57S      57G      576      576      576      576      576      576      576      576      576
PARGUET-FOREI6N               56,700  56,700  56,700  56,700  56,700  56,700  56,700  56,700  5G,700  56,700  56,700  56,700
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
FURNITURE-LOCAL                5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148   5,148
FURNITURE-EXPORT               1,200   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320    1,320   1,320   1,320
PARQUET-LOCAL                    72G      726      726      726      726      726      726      72G      726      726      726      726
PARQUET-FOREIGN                4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082   4,082
TOTAL REVENUES                11,156  11,276  i1,276  11,276  11,276  11,276  11,276  11,276  11,276  11,276  11,276  11,276
COST OF GOODS SOLD
TIMBER                         2,).Ls   2,034   2,034   2,034   2,034   2,034   Z,034   2,034   2,034   2,034   2,034   2,034
PLYWOOD                          207      211     21       211      211      211      211      211      211      211      211      211
OTHER MATERIAL                   122      125      i'5      125      125       125     125       125      125      125      125      125
MAINTENANCE                      620      620      620      6320     620      620      620      620      S20       620     620       ZO
FUEL                              20       20       20       20       20       20       20       ZO        20       20       20       ZO
POWER                             30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30        30       30       30
LABOUR                         1,600   1,GOO   1,600   1,600   1,60O    1,6,0    1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600  l,60   1,600
FACTORY OH                       200      200      zoo      200      200      200      200      zoo      200      200       200     200
TOTAL COST OF GOODS            4,815   4,838   4,833   4,839   4,83S   4,839   4,839   4,839   4,839    4,839   4,839   4,839
GROSS MAR6LIN                  6,341   6,437   6,437   6,437   6,437   6,437   6,437   6,437   6,437   6,437  6S437   6,437
NARKTNG AND HO                   220      220      220      220      220      Z20      220      220      2ZO      220      220      220
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   6S11l   6,217   6,217   S,217   6,217   6,217   6,217   6,217   6,217   6,217   6,217   6,217
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T   6,610   7,251   7,831   8,458   9,050   9,683  10,361  11,08G  11,862  12,93  17,602  24,969
DEPRECIATION                     120      120      120      120       120      120      120      120      120      120      120      120
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA   3,434   3,744   4,044   4,367   4,673   5,000   5,350   5,724   6,125   6,554   9,192  12,892
NET INCCME                     3,057   3,387   3,66S    3,971   4,257   4,563   4,891   5,Z42   5,617   6,019   8,490  11,957
LOAN INTEREST
CPEF                           1,070   i,205   1,307   1,417   1,521   1,632   1,751    1,878   2,014   2,159   3,055   4,312
CONTYf                           593      C-55     7D0 8l 75G                  Io fo942                                           2,293
RET EARNINGS                   1,385   1,527   1,652    1,786   1,916   2,052   2,199   2,355   2,523   2,702   3,805   5,351
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES          57       57       57        57       57       57       57       57       57       57       57       57
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV          55       55       55       55       55        55       55       55       55       55       55       55  FI
RET  EARN  VS REVENUES            11       12       12       12       12       12       12       12        1Z       12       12       12  
August 26, 1980



- 92 -                                    ANNEX 4
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Chart 1. Timber Corporation
2. Project Unit
3. Marketing and Milling Department
4. Implementation Schedule



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
TIMBER CORPORATION -ORGANIZATION CHART
Timber Corporation
Management Committee
Managing Director
Office of
Managing
Director
Manager
Extraction                    Administration                  VVWood Industries   I          Marketing/Milling                   Engineering                       Accounts
Department                      and Planning                    I Project Unit   IDepartment                                     Department                       Department
Departmen t 
General Manager                 General Manager                        P D.                      General Manager                   G.M.D.G.M.                         D.G.M.
Forestry I               -    Adminstration                                                        Export                       Headquarters              -         Admin.
Project Unit                                                        I
P.D.                          Manager                                                           D.G.M.                        Manager-6                       Manager-6
East Pegu                                                            -  -              -- Teak Sawmills                             Bs
Yoma                   -       Planning                                                       Plywood Mills                     Workshop                        Extraction
Project Unit                                                                                       and FID
P.D.                          Manager                                                           D.G.M.                          Manager                         Manager
Sagaing                        Research
L     Project                           and                                                             Planning                         Static                          Milling
Uniroject  l          1       Training     l                                           7      and Admin.                      Workshop                       and Marketing
W                                                                         ~P.D.  j Manager              D.G.M.                     Deputy Manager                       Manager
Hardwood                          States/                        Dvso
Milling and                      Division/                       Divstite
Sales                           State                          /tt
gr     7    Proposed Project Unit which will be formed out of the Teak Sawmills,                                                                                        D Danayeg- |7
___i  Plywood Mills and F.l.D. Division of Marketing and Milling Department                                 D M                        D     agr
(see chart 2 and 3) j-
World Bank - 21927             4. -.



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
PROJECT UNIT - ORGANIZATION CHART
Wood Industries I
Project Unit
Project Director
Technical                                                                      L
Assistance                                                                     Offiaer
Consultants                                                                     Ofm
F _                                                                  I
|  Civil Works                                                              Eqimn Instalatio
Supervision                                                                  and Operation
Procur,me t       Planning, Design          Plann0ing. Design          Installation and          Installation and          Equipment. Pro-              Man~ager                                            I nternalI
ProcSurmn               an d In~pec tion           and Inspection              Operation                 Operation               curement and                   H Q..                    Finance                   A,i
pply  A                 8           I  I          A                     ~~                     ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~B Planning  (Admini stration)Aui
Asst. P.D.                Asst. P.D.                Asst. P.D.                Asst. P.D.                Asst. P.D.                Asst. P.D.                                           Manager                   Manager
Foreign                  Sawmill                     r 1. D                   Sawmill                   Plywood                  Sawmilling                                            Material
Procurement                  No. 1            _                                      1                   Mill No. 2              and Workshop                                          Procurement                 Office
Manager                  Engineer                   Engineer                  Manager                    Manager                 D. Manager                                           A. Manager                0. Manager               40-
_]   Local  l    j       New         l    j    Admin. Bldg.                  Second                   Plywood                   Plywood                                             Equipment                 Inspection
Procurement                Sawmill                    (PU Hq)                   Sawmill                  Mill No. 3                 and FID                                            Procurement                 Team 1
Manager  _               Engineer                  Engineer                   Manager                   Manager                  D. Manager                                          A. Manager                D. Manager
Storage and                Central                                                entral                Furniture                   Supplies                                            Manpower                 Inspection
j   Distribution   [    X   Workshop                   No. 2                   Workshop                  Flooring                 S         P                                          Procurement                 Team 2
Manager                  Engineer                   Engineer                  Manager                  Products                 .D Manager                                            A. Manager               D. Manager
.lyml  |                                       D.G.M.                                                                  | Monitoring
No.mlil 3                                                                                                                 1         and
Reporting
|    Engineer    1                                                                                                           |   D. Manager
Cost
Accounting
D. Manager
World Bank-21925
Zt,



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
MARKETING AND MILLING DEPARTMENT - ORGANIZATION CHART
| Marketing and Milling Dept: |
|    General Manager          l
Exor                            Saw MillIs, Ply Mills                   PlnigadAmn                               Hardwood Milling
Exportand F.1. D.                  Planning and Admin.                       and Distribution
Deputy General Manager                 Deputy General Manager                  Deputy General Manager                   Deputy General Manager
Export 1RonLg
AmEuric,                Sales-1                                  Teak                               Administration                             Inspection
Australia)               (Dry)
Manager                Manager                               Manager-i 5
Exor 2Round Log                                                                                          .Ha rdwood
Export 2    _   _    ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Manager ~Dpt                                               Manager-_M          iIin 4adt
Shipping    _          Sales-3    lPMlywood
(Hardwood)                                 Mills
Manager            |   Manager                                Manager-3
|Co-ordination  L           Round Log|
l       l       ]   ~~~Depots
Manager                Manager
New Product          l
Sales and   L           Market
Promotion   I           Research
Manager  j              Manager   |                                                                                                    WorldBank-21926
Lt



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1980/81             1981/82                    1982/83                    1983/84                    1984/85
3     4      1     2      3      4      1      2     3      4      1      2     3      4      1     2      3      4
PLYWOOD Ml LLSI                                                                              FX HT1T]TTU1T
Detailed Drawings
Mobilization
Civil Works Construction
Equipment Tendering
Equipment Arrival
Installation
SAWMI LLS
Site Acquisition and Preparation
Detailed Drawings
Mobilization
Civil Works Construction
Equipment Tendering
Equipment Arrival
Installation
FURNITURE INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT
Detailed Drawing
Mobilization
Civil Works Construction
Equipment Tendering
Equipment Afrival
Installat ion
CENTRAL WORKSHOP
Detailed Drawings
Mobilization
Civil Works Construction
Equipment Tendering
Equipment Arrival
Installation
OTHER CIVIL WORKS
Detailed Drawings
Mobilization
Construction
OTHER EQUIPMENT
Tendering
Arrival
OTHER ACTIVITIES
Technical Assistance
Training
Rainy Season                                                                                 World Bank - 21928                          p..



- 97 -
BURMA                                    ANNEX 5
Page 1
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
The Construction Corporation
Organization and Management
The CC has a matrix organization like most GOB owned corporations
but unlike them, its Managing Director (MD) has a reasonable span of control
of five departments. However, the span of control problem has been passed
on to another level. The Works Director of CC is expected to supervise 14
regional heads and varying numbers of special projects. In addition, given
the communications problem and also the demands from local political and
administrative leaders, the quality control of works controlled by the
regional staff sometimes suffers. Situation is different with special
project units. These are under direct central control and their staff are
less likely to be distracted by pet projects of regional political and
administrative leaders.
Workload
CC dominates that construction sector in Burma and accounts for
54% of both private and public construction and maintenance works, and about
76% of the public sector construction. About 76% of CC's workload is for
new construction, of which 64% is for buildings and 9% for roads. Annual
workload of CC is around K820 M.
Staffing
CC is well staffed with about 360 civil engineers. There is a
significant unemployment amongst graduating civil engineers (according to
one report only 25% find suitable employment within 6 months of graduation).
Also, CC still has about 25% of its sanctioned positions unfilled. Therefore,
hiring additional civil engineers would not pose any administrative or supply
problems.
Quality of Works
The quality of works completed by CC has been mixed. Some of the
works have suffered due to poor quality of construction material and insufficient
control over labor. Local construction material such as brick, sand and
shingles, is supplied by cooperatives, who have monopoly power and, therefore,
little incentive to improve quality. Similar problems are experienced with
labor, who in some areas are unwilling to put an extra effort to improve
quality. The CC engineers are adapting to the problems by changing to
materials and construction methods which require less skill and effort and
in some cases by overdesigning.



- 98 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Efficiency and Prices
In last three years, CC has consistently performed better than its
budgedted operating ratio and has been authorized by GOB to pay bonus to its
workers.
Operating Ratio of the Construction Corporation
(Percent)
1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
Budget                   98.9        98.0       97.0
Actual                   97.2        94.2        91.8
Even then, its construction cost has increased at a high rate (about 10% per
year) because of increases in material prices. Price increases are expected
to moderate to about 8% during project construction period.
Implementation Capacity
The implementation capacity of CC has been limited by the availability
of suitable construction material, especially larger sizes of durable hardwood.
However, if CC should get involved in a TC project that problem should not
occur because TC is the main supplier of such hardwood.



- 99-                                   ANNEX 6
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Table 1. Sawmills - Economic Flows and Returns
2. Plymill 2 - Economic Flows and Returns
3. Plymill 3 - Economic Flows and Returns
4. FID - Economic Flows and Returns
5. Storage and Handling - Economic Flows and Returns
6. Project - Economic Flows and Returns
7. Conversion Factors and Switching Values - Benefits
8. Conversion Factors and Switching Values - Costs
9. Marginal Net Benefit and Switching Values - Incremental Production
10. Switching Values for Combined Benefits/Costs



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Sawmills - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                    Without Project
Operating    Capital       Net                  Operating    Capital       Net
Year   Revenue     Costs        Costs       Flow       Revenue      Costs        Costs      Flow     Incremental
i     216.8        142.5         6.2       70.1       218.6       142.5           .0       76.3        -.2
2 ..8       142.5      100. 7      -24.4       218.8       142.5        39.4        38.9       -61.3
3      227. 9      143. i       S I.J . 1  34. 7      2-1 a. a    142. 7        2. E       7 3 . 'Z   - 38 . 8
4      249.6       143.B         7.6        98.4      218.8       142.8         2.9        73.1       275.3
5      262.5       144,0         4.3      114.2       218.6       143,o         2.6        73.3        40.9
6      298.6       144.2         3.8       120.6      218.8       143.1         2.6        73.1        47.7
7      266B,       144.2         3.0      121.5       218.8       143.3         Z.G        73.0        46.6
6      266?  ,     144.2         3.0       1 21.5     26  i8   143.4            2.5        72?8        46.7
9      262.6       144.2         3.0       121.5      216.6       143.G         2.6        72.6        46.3
10      268 A? wR WB.6  144.2    11.8       11  7      218.8       143.8          2,6       72"4        40.2'   O
11      2682G       144.2         3.0       121 5      216.6       144.0         2,6        72.3        4S.2
12      2698.6      144.2         3.0       1 1 5      216.8       144.1          2.6G      72.1        49.4
13      266.6       144.2         3.0      112  5      208.3       137.1           .7       70.5        51.0
14      266S.       144.2         3.0       121.5       198.2      130.2           .6       67.4        54.1
15      268,6       144.2        11.8       112.7      186.7       123.7           .b       64=4        48.3
16      268,6       144.2         3.0       121.5       179.6      117.5           .5       61.5        60.0
17      268.G       144.2         3.0       121.5       171.0      111.7           .5       58.8        62.7
i8      266,6       144.2        (3.0       121.5      i12.8       106.1           .5       56.2        65.3
19      268.6       144.2         3a0       121.5       155.0      100.6           .5       53.6        67.7
20      268.6       144.22      -8.9        193.3       147.7        95.7      -22.6         74.5      118.6
Py-   2,103.2    1r201.7         154.0       747.5   1,777.5   116e2.0,          47.0      568.5       179.0
Economic Rate of Return = 32%
August 27, 1980                               ~                                                                 c



WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plymill 2 - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                  Without Project
Operating   Capital     Net                   Operating   Capital        Net
Year    Revenue       Costs      Costs      Flow        Revenue      Costs      Costs        Flow   Incremental
1        6.1         3.5        15.6      -I.0C)        B1          3.5           .0        4.6       -1.5.6
2        G. 7        3.1                   5.7         7.2        3.23 72(0                6.0 ,.3
1.      l.64.4       7D1         i.5         5.8         6.6        3.1           .0        3.5         2.3
4       21 .3       10.4         I .5        9.5         6.l0       2.9           .0        3.0         6.4
24.4        12.6          .9       i1.0         5.3         2.7          .u         2.6         6.4
6       24.4        12.6          .3        11.5         4.8        2.G           .0        2.2         9.3
7       2-4.4       12.6          .3        11.5         4.8         2.6          .1        2.1         9.4
8       24.4        12.6          .3        11,5         4.8        2.6           .1        2.1         9.4
9       24.4        12.6          .3        11.5         4.8        2.G           .1        2.1         9.4
10       24u4        12.6         1.6        10.0         4.8        2.6           .1        2.1         7.9
11       24.4        12.6          .3        11.5         4.6        2.6           .1        2.1         9.4
1.2      24.4        12.8          .3        11.5         4.8        2.6           .L        2.1         9.4
13       24.4        12.6          .3        11.5         4.8        2.G           .1        2.1         9.4
14       24.4        12.6          .3        11.5         4.8        2.6           .1        2.1         9.4
15       24.4        12.6         1.B        10.0         4.8        2.6           .1        2.1         7.9
16       24.4        12.6          .3        11.5         4.8        2.6           .1        2.1         9.4
17       24.4        12.6          .3        11.5         4.8         2.B          .1        2.1         9.4
18       24.4        12.G          .3        11.5         4.8        2.6           .1        2.1         9.4
19       24.4        12.6          .3        11.5         4.e        2.6           .1        2.1         9.4
20       24.4        12.6        -7.4        19.2         4.8         2.6          .1         2.2        17.1
PY-      161.9        81.7        17.7        62.5        4R9 3       24.0        -1.6       25.9        36.G
Economic Rate of Return = 33%
August 27, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Plymill 3 - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                  Without Project
Operating   Capital      Net                 Operating  Capital       Net
Year   Revenue      Costs       Costs      Flow      Revenue      Costs      Costs      Flow    Incremental
1      11.6         4.3          .0        7.2       11.G         4.4         .0         7.2         .0
2       10.5        4.1       -1.0         7.4       10.5         4.1      -19.6        25.9      -18.5
3        5.8        2.9         -.7        3.5        9.5         3.9          .0        5.7       -.2
4       18.5        8.1        2.4         8.0        8.6         3.6          .0        5.0        3.0
S      21.9         9.6          .8       11.5        7.7         3.4          .0        4.3        7.1
6       25.1       11.4          .9       12.8        7.0         3.2          .0        3.8        9.0
7      25.1        11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.2          .1        3.7        9.7
8       25.1       11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.2          .1        3.7        9.7
25.1              11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.2          .1        3.7        9.7
91      25          11.4         .3       1347032.1                                      3.7         9.7
12       25.1       11.4        2.1        11.5        7.0         3.2          .1        3.7        9.7
13      25.1        11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.           .1         .
12       25.1       11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.2          .         3.7        9.7
15      25.1        11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.2          .         3.7        7.7
14      25.1        11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.           .1        3.7        9.7
Is      25.1        11.4        2.1        li.5        7.0         3.2          .1        3.7        7.B
17      25.1        11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.2          .1        3.7        9.7
18      25.1        11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.2          ,1        3.7        9.7
is      25.1        11.4          .3       13.4        7.0         3.2          .13.7                9.7
20      2.5.1       11.4       -3.9        17.5         7.0        3.21       4.3         -.5       1.
PV-      161.1       71.6         3.0       86.5         9.8 209.8           -16.7        56.7        29.3
Economic Rate of Return = 29%
August 28, 1980



WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
FID - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                    Without Project
Operating    Capital       Net                  Operating    Capital        Net
Year     Revenue      Costs       Costs       Flow        Revenue     Costs        Costs       Flow      Incremental
I       10.1         6.7          5.2        -1.9        10.1         6.7           .0         3.3        -5.2
2       10.2         6.8        35.8        --32.4       10.2         6.8          8.3        -5.0       -27.4
3       20.1         13.3         2.2         4.6        10.2          6.8          .2         3.2          1.3
4       25.6        16.6          1.4         7.6        10.2          6.8          .2         3.2         4.4
5       31.1        19.4          1.4        10.4        10.2          G.8          .1         3.2          7.1
6       32.1        19.7           .6        11.8        10.2          6.8          .1         3.2         8.5
7       33.8        2().4          .7        12.7        10.2          6.8          .1         3.2         9.4
a       33.8        20.4           .4        12.9        10.2          6.8          .1         3.2          9.7
9       33.8        20.4           .4        12.9        10.2          6.8          .1         3.2         9.7
105      33.8        20.4          3.1        10.2        10.2          6.6          .1         3.2         7.0
11       33.8        20.4           .4        12.9        10.2          6.B           .1        3.2         9.7
33.8        20.4           .4        12.9        10.2         6.8           .1         3.2         9.7
13       33.8        20.4           .4        12.9        10.2          6.8          .1         3.2         9.7
14       33.6         20.4          .4        12.9        10.2          6.8           .1        3.2          9.7
15       33.8        20.4          3.1        10.2         10.2         G.8          .1         3.2          7.0
16       33.8        20t4           .4        12.9         10.2          .68         .1         3.2          9.7
17       33.8        20.4           .4        12.9        10.2          6.8          .1         3.2          9.7
18       33.8        20.4           .4        12.9         10.2         6.8           .1        3.2          9.7
19       33.8        20.4           .4        12.9        10.2          6.8          .1         3.2          9.7
20       33.8         20.4       -i6.3        29.7         10.2-        6E.        -3.2          6.6        23.1
PV.-      21e.3       135.4        42.4        40.5        85.0         56.8         8.0        20.2         20.3
Economic Rate of Return = 20%                                                                                         >
August 28, 1980



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Storage and Handling - Economic Flows and Returns
(Thousands of Constant Kyats)
Losses                Incremental                Fixed Asset                 Net Cash
Year              Reduced                Operating Costs            and W. Capital               Flow
1                     -                          -                     3,029                   -3,029
2 - 20             1,155                         160                         9                       986
Economic Rate of Return = 32%
August 28, 1980                                                                                                 |l
u-A p



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Project - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1980 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                 Without Prolect
Operating   Capital       Net                 Operating   Capital       Net
Year   Revenue      Costs      Costs       Flow       Revenue     Costs       Costs       Flow    Incremental
i     248.5       157.4        45.2       46.0       248.5       157.1          .0       91.4       -45.4
2     247.3       157.0       138.9      -48.5       246.7       156.7        26.2       63.8      -112.4
3     269.4       166.9        71.9        30.5      245.1       156.4         3.1       85.6       -55.1
4     316.3       179.3        15.0       122.0      243.5       156.1         3.1       84.3        37.7
5     341.0       185.7         7.3       148.0      242.0       155.9         2.7       83.5        64.6
6     351.3       188.0         5.4       158.0      240.8       155.7         2.7       82.4        75.6
7     353.0       188.7         4.3       160.1      240.8       155.9         2.9       82.0        78.1
8     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      240.8       156.1         2.9       81.9        78.5
9     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      240.8       156.2         2.9       81.7        78.7      F
10     353.0       188.7        18.6       145.5      240.8       156.4         2.9       81.5        64.0      
11     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      240.8       156.6         2.9       81.3        78.0 
12     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      240.8       156.8         2.9       81.2        79.2
13     353.0       186.7         4.0       1GO.3      230.3       149.7         1.        79.6        80.6
14     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      220.2       142.9          .9       76.4        83.9
15     353.0       188.7        18.8       145.5      210.7       136.4          .9       73.4        72.1
16     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      201.6       130.2          .8       70.G        89.7
17     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      193.0       124.3          .8       67.9        92.5
18     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      184.8       118.7          .8       65.3        95.0
19     353.0       188.7         4.0       160.3      177.0       113.4          .8       62.9        97.5
20      353.0      188.7      -107.7       272.0       169.7      108.4       -21.5        82.8      189.2
P.i--   2r653.0   1,492.5       255.5       905.1    17980.5    17272.5         36.7       671.3      233.8
Economic Rate of Return = 25%
August 28, 1980                               



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Conversion Factors and Switching Values - Benefits
Switching
Financial       Economic      Conversion            Values at 12%
Unit       Price          Price           Factor          Value        % Decrease
Teak Plywood                        K/Sheet      45.66          49.00 -/        1.07              <0           >100
Hardwood Plywood                    K/Sheet       31.58         35.00 2         1.11            0.35             69
Teak Veneer                         K/100OF2        766            766          1.0             0.39             61
Teak Sawnwood-Export Grade          K/ST       5700-6300       5700-6300        1.0             0.42             58
Teak Sawnwood-Local Grade           K/ST          1800           1760           0.98              <0           > 100
Furniture-Export Grade              K/Pce           200            200          1.0             0.27             73
4/
Furniture-Local Grade               K/Pce       149-156         119-125         0.8 -           0.43             46
Flooring Products-Local             K/m2          78.75             72          0.9               <0          > 100
Flooring Products-Export            K/m2             72             72          1.0             0.66             34
Firewood                            K/ST             85           255           3.0 6/           < O          > 100
Teak Logs                           K/HT          2310           2310           1.0             0.5              50
1/  Based on teak strip (1/2" thickness) price of 1800 K/St.
2/ Based on pyinkado strip (1/2" thickness) price of 1300 K/St.
3/ Market price factor (1.22)*SCF(0.8)-0.98
4/ SCF
5/ Export Substitute
6/  Substitutes kerosene for which CF=3.0
August 28, 1980                                                                                                         , ,0



WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Conversion Factors and Switching Values - Costs
Switching
Financial       Economic       Conversion            Values at 12% -
Unit        Price          Price           Factor           Value        % Increase
Teak Logs - Higher Quality(67%)    K/HT           3,340          5,550 -          1.66             3.38            204
for export veneer
Teak Logs - Lower Quality (33%)    K/HT             658          3,180 -          4.83            22.57            467
for local veneer
Teak Logs - Average for veneer       K/HT         2,460          4,770            1.94             3.50             81
Teak Logs - Lower Quality for        K/HT           575          1,258            2.19            11.76            537
Sawmnills
Gurjan Logs                           K/HT          197            157            0.8 2/           5.50            687
Sawnwood for FID                     K/ST           800          1,630            2.03             2.75             35
Plywood for FID                      K/Sheet       22.50          47.74           2.12             5.85            276
Glue, Tape, Fastners                                                              0.49 3/          5.25          1,072
Labour                                                                            0.8  2/          2.15            269
Fixed Assets                                                                    0.63-0.69 4/    1.09-1.45           67
Working Capital                                                                   0.93             4.38            471
1/ Export price
2/ SCF = 0.8
3/ Imported supplies with a total tax rate of 105%.
4/ Based on tax rate of 60% on imported equipment and SCF = 0.8 on local costs.
5/ Switching values are for component ERR.  Where the same cost category occurs in many components, the                      >
minimum increase is mentioned.
August 28, 1980                                                                                                            X o



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Marginal Net Benefit and Switching Values - Incremental Production
Switching Values
Marginal         (% Decrease)
Marginal    Marginal    Marginal    Benefit                    Incremental
Unit         Benefit        Cost     Net Benefit  Ratio(%)       Revenue   Production
Teak Plywood                      K/Sheet         49.00        27.60        21.40        56.3        > 100        > 100
Hardwood Plywood                  K/Sheet         35.00         6.01        28.99        83.8           69           83
Teak Veneer                       K/1000F2       766.0        466.9        299.1         39.0           61        > 100
Teak Sawnwood-Export Grade        K/ST         5700-6300      615         5385           89.7           58           65
Teak Sawnwood-Local Grade         K/ST          1760          180         1580           89.7        > 100        > 100
Furniture-Export Grade            K/Pce         1200           78.7        121.3         60.7           73        > 100
Furniture-Local Grade             K/Pce         119-125        78.7         43.3         35.5           43       > 100
Flooring-Products-Local           K/m2            72           64.9          7.1          9.9        > 100        7 100
Flooring Products-Export          K/m2            72           24.0         48.0         66.7           34           51
Firewood                          K/ST           255           26          229           89.7.       > 100        > 100
Teak Logs                         K/HT          2310            -         2310          100.0           50           50
September 3, 1980
'00'



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Switching Values for Combined Benefits/Costs
Percent Change in Incremental Benefits/Costs
Operating           Capital
Benefits          Costs              Costs             Production
Sawmills                        - 54.9           + 450.9            + 167.3              - 61.2
Plywood Mill 2                  - 32.2           +  63.4            + 189.6              - 59.4
Plywood Mill 3                  - 32.6           +  71.3            + 151.3              - 49.7
FID                             - 15.2           +  25.8            +  59.0              - 29.9
Storage and Handling            - 50.3           + 362.8            + 140.1              - 50.3
Project                         - 34.8           + 128.3            + 106.9              - 47.7
F~0
IPa 



ANNEX 7
- 110 -                         Page 1
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Glossary
Butt-ends          -    Log ends obtained from butting logs for grading.
Flitches           -    Large sized sawn timber cut specifically for veneer
slicing purposes.
Hardwoods          -    Refers to all marketable hardwoods other than teak.
Headrig            -    The main sawing station in the sawmill where the round
logs are first sawn.
Lam Parquet        -    Wooden flooring blocks for export market normally sized
250 mm x 50 mm x 10 mm.
Mosaic Parquet    -    Wooden flooring boocks for export market normally sized
4-1/2" x 9/10" x 3/8". For the domestic market the
parquet flooring is much larger measuring 8-5/8" x
2-7/8" x 7/8".
Outturn            -    Output of sawnwood from sawmill normally measured in
sawn tons (50 cu ft).
Peeler             -    Rotary lathe which produces peeled veneers for use as
both core and face veneers in the manufacture of plywood.
Recovery           -    Volume of sawnwood recovered from a given volume of
logs usually expressed as a percent of invoiced volume
output versus hoppus ton input.
Sawnwood           -    Cutwood, lumber.
Scantlings         -    Sawnwood within the following size range:  thickness 1/2
inch to 4        width 1 inch to 6 inches; length 1-1/2
feet and longer.
Sheet              -    Plywood panel.  Standard size is 8' x 4' x 4 mm.
Panel sizes range from 6' x 3' to 8' x 4 .
Slicer             -    Machine which produces sliced face veneers from prepared
flitches for decorative purposes on plywood or particle
board.
Squares            -    Rectangular sawnwood over 10' with a maximum variation
of 2" between width and thickness and over 6'.
Teak               -    Refers specifically to one species:  Tectona grandis.



- 111 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 2
Throughput        -    The volume of logs normally measured in hoppus tons
put into the mill.
Veneer             -    Thin sheets of wood of uniform thickness, rotary cut,
sliced or sawn, for use in plywood, laminated
construction furniture, veneer containers, etc.



- 112 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 1
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
List of Related Documents and Data Available on the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A.1 Burma, Forest Feasibility Studies
Prepared by Sandwell Management Consultants, Limited, comprising:
X4040/1    Study Background, February 10, 1978
X4040/2    Vol. 1  Forest Resources - Main Report, February 10, 1978
Vol. 2 Forest Resources - Annexes
X4040/3    The Existing Forest Products Industry, February 10, 1978
X4Q40/4    Mechanical Wood Products Markets, February 10, 1978
X4040/5    Pulp and Paper Markets, February 10, 1978
X4040/6    Forest Industry Development, February 10, 1978
X4040/7    Timber Corporation Organization -and Management,
October 31, 1978
X4040/8    Timber Extraction Studies, December 31, 1978
X4040/9    Teak Veneer Mill Feasibility Study, October 31, 1978
X4040/10   Bassein Integrated Sawmill Study (partial study -
abandoned due to insufficient resource; resource data
available)
X4040/11   Central Burma Hardwood Sawmill
Vol. 1 Wood Resources Study - Main Report, May 31, 1978
Vol. 2 Wood Resources Study - Annexes
X4040/12   Central Burma Hardwood Sawmill Feasibility Study,
July 4, 1978
A.2    Forestry Sector - Appraisal Reports
A.2.1 IBRD, Burma, Appraisal of Forest Project
Report No. 374a-BA
May 24, 1974
A.2.2 IBRD, Burma, Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project
Report No. 2463-BA
July 17, 1979



ANNEX 8
- 113 -                         Page 2
A.2.3  ADB, Burma, Appraisal of the Forestry Project
Report No. BUR:Ap-8
January 1977
B.     Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1    Burma, Forest Industries I Project - Preparation Report
Government of Burma - Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
April 9, 1980
B.2    Technical Reports - Timber Corporation
B.2.1  No. 1 Sawmill (Main Mill)
B.2.2  No. 1 Sawmill (Extension)
B.2.3  No. 2 Plywood Mill
B.2.4  No. 3 Plywood Mill
B.2.5  Sliced Veneer Mill
B.2.6  Furniture Industries Department
B.2.7  All Weather Log Pond
B.2.8  Central Workshop
B.2.9  Project Unit Headquarter
B.3    Supplementary Information - Timber Corporation
B.3.1  Investment Costs
B.3.2  Financial
B.3.3  Production
B.3.4  Marketing
B.3.5  Technical
B.3.6  Organization
C.     Selected Working Papers
C.1    North America Market Situation for Products of Burma Teak
C.2    Market Analysis Working Papers
C.3    Teak Sawmilling Component
C.4    Plywood Component
C.5    Furniture Industries Component
C.6    Technical Assistance and Training
C.7    Financial Analysis and Cost Calculations
C.8    Economic Analysis






SEPTEMBER 1980
\  WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
t \ X / /g 94 . / Z ~~~~RANGOON
.   >\\4   ;--2                          g             N~~~~ ~~~~AL                                                  4  V W   Wood Processir,g Mills on,d Factorijes
t-  1   )t  {                      h           AI~~~~~~RPORT                        N                                       OThER
t  (   <   $(       Xf                             )    X     \          ),/                          4    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wood Processing Mills a,,d Facta,,es
  I   '\. 112   _  7.ir,+                          1t  + \ X r                                       4    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Log Depots
|   ..  '   <^         >                          1l    t //                                       *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Timber Corporation Headquarters
t \ j Y \ \ A A/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B,uilt-up Areos
KASNX   IN  t9  Roads
NSNEIN                                                                                |        $- -Internolhonal Bour,daries                                                /
SHAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CWAI/                           +                < ,6  \TRA\ 
V _ _X \ /  '''  \RE' '
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 5 0.                                                                 N
.        :      i THAILAND DA
~1 1       I          (                                                                                                 _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  __PM_I
..... 1614-                                                             :                                                                     -    ieCsr
-  Ci                                      5 jl 8 the readers ofthe reporttoWhich itroattached. The denomneiosatcssed end the  IK romtrs,
.  .   J ,,        V      bou~~~~hnndaries shownc on th,s soap donot irspip on the pays of the W orld Bethn end its
t,  ,                                  i-a blisten, any tudarsest on the legal satets of any territorV cc enV endorsemont or
' i   t  ;  i>,/ .  r      ~~~eoceptense sof uch hccnderios.                                                                       



