Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE  COPY                                       Report No.P-2963-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
February 24, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Baik authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 1977, the Burmese kyat has been -fficially
valued at 8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and
consequently its value floats relative to other currencies.
The following exchange rate is used throughout this report
except where stated otherwise:
US$1.00       =    Kyat (K) 6.6
K 1.00        =    US$0.15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                            Metric Units
1 hoppus foot (HF)          =   1.273 cubic feet (cu ft) true geo-
metric measure for roundwood
1 hoppus ton (H ton)        =   50 HF in round logs, or
- 63.75 cu ft true geometric measure,
or
= 1.805 cubic meter cum roundwood
underbark
1 sawn ton (S ton)          =  50 cu ft of sawnwood, or = 1.416 cu m
1 metric ton (mt)           =  2,205 pounds
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AAC     -   Annual Allowable Cut
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
CC      -   Construction Corporation
CP      -   Cooperative Program (FAO/IBRD)
CSU     -   Civil Works Construction Supervision Unit
EIU     -   Equipment Installation and Operating Unit
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
FAO     -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD      -   Forest Department
FFS     -   Forest Feasibility Studies
FID     -   Furniture Industries Department
FOB     -   Free on Board
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
GOB     -   Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
FINNIDA -   Finnish International Development Agency
IDA     -   International Development Association
MAF     -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
PAPRD   -   Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department
PU      -   Project Unit
SEE     -   State Economic Enterprise
TC      -   Timber Corporation
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BEJRMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Beneficiary:         The Timber Corporation (TC)
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights 25.8 million (US$32 million
equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Co-Financier:        Government of Finland - about US$2.0 million equivalent,
on a grant basis, to finance the technical assistance
and training component.
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend the entire credit of US$32
million equivalent to TC at 10% interest per annum for 15
years including four years' grace with TC bearing the for-
eign exchange risk.
Project              The proposed project aims to improve the efficiency and
Description:        product quality of the teak processing industries in Burma
through the reconstruction and modernization of two teak
sawmills of about 105,000 hoppus (H) tons capacity, reha-
bilitation of two plywood and veneer mills and the exist-
ing furniture factory, expansion of flooring production,
construction of a central workshop, strengthening of log
storage and handling, and provision of training and tech-
nical assistance. The project's incremental output would
generate annual revenues of about US$17 million of which
about 72% would be in foreign exchange. Additional direct
employment of about 600 would be generated after mill
construction. Environmental conditions and worker safety
would be enhanced by the provision of better diust and
waste material collection facilities in the reconstructed
and rehabilitated mills and factories. The maLin project
risk would be possible delays in civil works construction.
However, appropriate arrangements have been masde to ensure
that the project would be within the implementation capa-
city of the agencies concerned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
Major Categories
Sawmill Reconstruction                12.3      11.6       23.9
Plywood and Veneer Mill
Rehabilitation                       3.0       4.5        7.5
Furniture and Flooring Products        3.2       3.7        6.9
Central Workshop                       1.7       1.5        3.2
Administration and Monitoring          1.1       0.5        1.6
Construction Equipment                 0.7       1.1        1.8
Log Storage and Handling               0.3       0.4        0.7
Technical Assistance and Training   0.0          1.6        1.6
Incremental Working Capital            1.8       0.2        2.0
Total Base Cost                  24.1     25.1       49.2
Contingencies
Physical                               1.8       1.3        3.1
Price                                  5.7       5.8       11.5
Subtotal                          7.5       7.1      14.6
Total Project Cost               31.6     32.2       63.8
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes and duties)  (13.6)   (32.2)    (45.8)
Financing Plan:                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                    3.0      29.0      32.0
FINNIDA                                 -        1.9       1.9
TC                                    28.6       1.3      29.9
Total                            31.6     32.2      63.8
Estimated                                        US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:     IDA FY           1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85
Annual            5.0           14.0        10.0          3.0
Cumulative        5.0           19.0        29.0         32.0
Rate of Return:      25%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3162-BA, dated February 19, 1981.
Map:                  IBRD No. 15250



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for Special
Drawing Rights (SDR) 25.8 million (US$32 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance a wood industries project. The proceeds of thte credit
would be relent to the Timber Corporation (TC) for a term of 15 years, includ-
ing a four-year grace period, at an interest rate of 10% per annum with the
TC bearing the foreign exchange risk. The Government of Finland intends to
finance, on a grant basis, the training and technical assistance components
of the proposed project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Domestic and External
Resource Prospects" (Report No. 3098-BA dated October 10, 1980) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on October 17, 1980. Country data are shown
in Annex I.
3.        The present leadership under President Ne Win has ruled the country
since 1962, first under the Revolutionary Council and more recently under a
new Constitution. The Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in
December 1973, and under it, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) was created
with supreme executive, legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Social-
ist Program Party (BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party.
The Government's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962 document entitled The
Burmese Way to Socialism reflects a combination of traditional Burmese values
and socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives are set out in the Twenty-Year
Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being implemented through a
succession of Four-Year Plans.
4.         During the 1960s and early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political objectives. These
included increased government ownership of economic assets, greater equality
in the distribution of income, and Burmanization of important professional and
managerial jobs. A fundamental change in the economic and social structure
resulted from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size of holdings
among farm families, and from the nationalization of a number of major economic
activities in trade and industry. At the same time, access of the population
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as the corres-
ponding parts of the President's Report for a Grain Storage Project
dated December 3, 1980 (P-2922-BA).



to social services was expanded, particularly with respect to education and
health facilities. Insurgency was and is still a problem, however, particularly
in the hills and border areas, although there is probably greater territorial
control by the Government now than at any time since Independence in 1948.
5.        Burma's economic performance over this period, however, reflects
the severe disruption in ownership, management, and distribution systems
which accompanied the social restructuring. Public policies and public sector
performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in private investment
-and production which resulted; and economic growth suffered, scarcely matching
population growth. Throughout the period, investment levels were low, with
gross capital formation averaging only 10-11% of GNP. Furthermore, investment
was excessively skewed toward nationalized industry, while such key, directly-
productive sectors as agriculture, forestry, and mining did not receive due
attention.
6.        The pricing policies of the Government exacerbated the problem.
They were aimed at keeping down the cost of living for the masses, and in
many instances, State Economic Enterprises were not allowed full recovery of
their costs, leading to a decline in their financial surpluses and hence in
domestic savings. Furthermore, low agricultural producer prices discouraged
the production of paddy and other crops and led to dwindling export earnings.
Low export earnings, in turn, reduced the capacity of the economy to import
essential raw materials, spares, and capital equipment, leading to increasing
underutilization of capacity in most sectors of the economy and severely
limiting expansion. An increasing share of production was either traded in
the domestic unofficial market or illegally exported abroad at a multiple of
official prices. In both cases, the tax base was undermined and income was
siphoned off by segments of the private sector with little opportunity or
inclination to invest these resources productively. The distortions arising
from this system were compounded by low, official interest rates and an
overvalued exchange rate.
7.        In recognition of this poor economic performance, the Government
initiated a period of reforms with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan.
The main objectives of the Plan are to foster economic growth within the con-
text of a socialist system, to enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency
by converting from an agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society,
to eliminate unemployment and to reduce income disparities. The GOB's strat-
egy for achieving these goals is constantly evolving, with innovations pro-
posed as new constraints are encountered. The main elements of this strategy,
however, appear to be: (a) to give higher priority initially to the directly
productive sectors, especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to
make greater use of aid, trade, and--to a lesser extent--technical assistance;
(c) to follow a price stabilization program which emphasizes cost reduction,
through increased efficiency in industry and technical change in agriculture;
and (d) to begin to introduce work incentives and commercial principles,
especially in the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs).
8.        Pricing policy still reflects the desire to provide basic consumer
goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, but it has begun to recognize the role
of prices in creating production incentives and financial viability. Procure-
ment prices of a variety of agricultural products were raised to improve the



economic position of the farmer, while others were decontrolled. The procure-
ment price for paddy was raised by 150% between 1972 and 1974. InI 1977/78 the
procurement price for high quality paddy was increased by about 4--7%; in 1980
this price was further raised by about 2-12%.  In industry, the Government
ol airii  ae.. costing schedules in 1976 and increased the ex-factory prices of
SEEs, although the adjustments remain incomplete. These new costing schedules,
in principle, allow profit margins at the producing level for the first time
for a great majority of SEEs. The official exchange rate of the kyat was
devalued by 25% relative to the US dollar in January 1975 and a further 9%
relative to the SDR in 1977, thus partially compensating for the overvaluation.
The interest rate on savings deposits was raised from 3.5% to 6% in April 1975
and raised again to 8% in November 1977. Interest charged to farmers on
agricultural loans has been raised to 12%.
9.        In addition to these pricing reforms, the Government introduced
reforms in investment allocation, management of SEEs, and taxation. The per-
centage of public investment which was allocated to agriculture (including
livestock, fishing, and forestry) in the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75 to
1977/78) increased to about 20%, compared to about 11% during the previous
decade. The share of mining rose from about 5% for the period 1963/64-1973/74
to about 11% in the Second Four-Year Plan. The share of industrial investment
which was allocated to consumer goods and light industries, however, was very
small. In 1975, a comprehensive set of guidelines was introduced to enable
SEEs to operate on a commercial basis and to improve distribution of their
production. The guidelines introduce greater autonomy in the management of
SEEs, set standards by which their operational performance will be measured,
introduce financial and costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide
for a bonus scheme under which management and the work force may be rewarded
for successful performance. Although problems remain, particular^ly in regard
to incentives for operational and investment efficiency, production trends
and financial performance have greatly improved. In April 1976, a major tax
reform was enacted. It included the introduction of a Commodities and Services
Tax and a Profits Tax and resulted in increasing Union Government revenue from
9% of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1977/78. This tax reform represented a major
turnaround in public finance and was perhaps the most important achievement
of the Government in recent years.
10.       In part as a result of these measures and in part as a result of
favorable weather and increased capital inflows, GDP during the Second Four-
Year Plan (1974/75 to 1977/78) increased by an annual average of 4.7%, compared
to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation increased by
about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic savings as a percent of GDP
also increased. The improved budgetary position of the Government lessened
its dependence on the banking system, which, in turn, contributed to a reduc-
tion in the rate of inflation. The consumer price index declined slightly
during 1977, and continued to decline, by an estimated 6%, during 1978. The
average annual growth in exports was 3-4% in real terms; and increased external
borrowing permitted an annual average real growth in imports of 16%.
11.       More recently, during the first two years of the Third Four-Year
Plan (1978/79 to 1981/82), GDP, investment, and export growth have shown
further improvement, but the domestic savings effort may have to be intensi-
fied as the consolidated budgetary surplus has declined. In fac:t, despite



-- 4 -
the generally favorable developments, much remains to be done to put the
economy firmly on the path to sustained and more rapid growth. The problems
confronting agriculture include insufficient supplies of essential farm inputs,
inadequate transportation facilities and shortages of farm power and basic farm
services, in particular agricultural credit and extension services. They also
include the need for further production incentives through increased agricul-
tural producer prices and through a greater flow of consumer goods to the rural
areas. In industry, further adjustments of SEE product prices are required to
reflect resource scarcities more accurately, to stimulate productivity growth,
and to generate surpluses for reinvestment. In external trade, the role and
impact of the exchange rate needs to be kept under continuing review, given
the importance of greater export growth for the development of the domestic
economy. Greater export promotion efforts for minor products must also be
made.
12.       The need for institution building and management development, which
expand absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration, and imple-
mentation of development programs, cannot be overemphasized. The Burmese
planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex and rigid in
its manner of operation and appears to focus excessively on the formulation
of targets. Streamlining of the entire planning and administrative apparatus,
decentralization of decision-making, and strengthening of the capability of
Government entities to prepare and implement projects are urgently needed.
13.       The Government recognizes the general nature of the problems and
issues to which attention must urgently be addressed. If appropriate actions
are taken, Burma is capable of a significant acceleration in economic growth.
In this connection, the 1977 law on the "Rights of the Private Enterprise"
is welcomed. The Rules and Regulations of this law have been issued, and
registration of enterprises is proceeding. It is hoped that by legitimizing
private sector activity and establishing a clearer set of guidelines for the
development of the public, cooperative, and private sectors, some reintegra-
tion of the economy will take place which can be expected to have a beneficial
impact upon economic performance.
14.       The Government's planned GDP growth for the Third Four-Year Plan is
6.6%, an ambitious target and one which will require external assistance for
projects contributing towards:
-    intensified and more efficient use of existing cultivated
areas and reclamation of abandoned land in agriculture
(research and extension services, supply of essential
inputs, especially high-yielding varieties of planting
materials, fertilizer and light agricultural machinery;
improvement of irrigation facilities, in particular, tube-
well development; and integrated agricultural development);
-    better utilization of forestry resources (through the
improvement of extraction, processing, and transport
facilities);
-    development of known mineral deposits; and



-    development of agro- and mineral-based industrie- which
possess clear comparative advantage (including food,
fish, and wood products, and fertilizer production).
In addition to such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate exist-
ing capacity in transportation and communications.  The transport sector is
in a serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equLipmnent, and main-
tenance. While project loans and technical assistance can be used to address
most of these projects, commodity financing will also be required from external
sources to meet Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spares, and equipment
in support of its rehabilitation efforts.
15.       Burma's debt service ratio increased from 10% in the 1960s to about
20% in the mid-1970s, due primarily to a relative decline in exports with
respect to GDP rather than a relative increase in debt servicing. By early
1980, Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approxi-
mately US$1 billion; and the debt service burden had increased further due to
servicing of loans to the oil industry on commercial terms. Burma's exports
are increasing after a long period of decline, and the potential for a con-
tinued upward trend is good. Nevertheless, because of the rising debt service
burden and because of Burma's low income level, external assistance should be
on concessionary terms and should, in addition, finance part of local cost
requirements which cannot, at present, be covered adequately by domestic
savings. Local cost financing is particularly needed for the agricultural
sector where most investments have a low foreign exchange component.
16.       Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a relatively
healthy and literate population. The crucial question is the quality with
which these resources will be managed and developed. The Bank continues to
discuss with the Government further improvements in economic policy which
might help Burma realize its promising potential for economic development as
well as external assistance requirements. Discussions on these topics are
carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during the Burma Aid Group
meetings which the Bank has organized at the Government's request. The first
meeting of the Group was held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and there have
been three subsequent meetings, with indications of increasing donor support
each year.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the FPort of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
18.       No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  At. the request of
the Government, IDA lending was resumed in 1973.  Since 1973, IDA has made



- 6 -
sixteen credits totaling US$385.3 million equivalent (net of cancellations),
three of which have been fully disbursed. About 70% of this assistance was
channeled to the agricultural sector, consisting of ten projects:  irriga-
tion, rubber, livestock, seed development, two paddyland development projects,
grain storage, two forestry projects, and the Nyaunggyat Dam multipurpose
project. About 11% of IDA's assistance supported the rehabilitation of the
transport sector through three projects, namely inland water transport, rail-
ways, and a second ports project. The remaining 19% of IDA's assistance has
been for two projects in the telecommunications sector (15%) and one project
in the mining sector (4%). The proposed credit would be the second in FY81,
bringing the total of IDA assistance to Burma to US$417.3 million equivalent,
net of cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. IFC has made no investments in Burma.
19.       In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our
ongoing projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved.
. US$4.1 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project),
for which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline
suitable for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture, trans-
port, power and industry. The Seed Development and Rubber Rehabilitation
Projects (Credit Nos. 745-BA and 879-BA, respectively) were prepared under
the Umbrella Project. A second phase of this Umbrella Project has been agreed
with the Government and UNDP.  Furthermore, the Association plans to continue
its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help improve Burmese
project preparation capabilities, as well as administrative and managerial
skills through in-service and overseas training.
20.       The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate
constraints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying pro-
duction for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange.
Within this overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the develop-
ment of agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and where
possible, priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the same
time, financing of infrastructure improvements will continue in such areas
as transportation and telecommunications, mainly to rehabilitate existing
facilities. Many of these are inoperable at present and have increasingly
impeded economic activity in the directly productive sectors of the economy.
21.       In line with the need to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
most of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. A road rehabilitation and
road maintenance project is being appraised. Other projects under preparation
include fuelwood supply, fisheries, integrated agriculture development, a
tubewells project, and a pulp and paper project. In addition, a power project
to augment transmission networks is also under preparation.
22.       The Bank Group currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.



- 7 -
PART III - THE FOREST AND FOREST INDUSTRIES SECTOR
23.        Burma's agricultural sector, including livestock, forestry and
fisheries, accounted for 45% of GDP in 1979/80 in current prices and employed
67% of the labor force. Agricultural products, primarily rice and teak,
account for about 85% of all exports.  About 60% of Burma's industrial output
stems from agricultural products including cotton, jute and sugarcane.
Recognizing the importance of the agriculture sector, the Government has
increased its share of state capital expenditure from about 20% during the
Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78) to 27.3% in the current Third Four-
Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82).
24.        Burma's forests cover about 96 million acres or over one-half of
its land area. Although forestry contributes less than 3% of GDP, it provides
more than 25% of foreign exchange earnings, principally from the exports of
teak logs and sawnwood. Total employment in forestry operations is about
150,000. The sector is also an important source of construction material,
supplies about 300,000 sawn (S) tons of lumber and 18 million sq. ft. of
plywood, and provides a high proportion of rural energy consumption through
firewood and charcoal.
25.        All Burma's forests and most forest-based industries are owned
and controlled by the Government. The Forest Department (FD) of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) is primarily responsible for the management
of all forest land.  The Governrment-owned Timber Corporation (TC) extracts
all commercial teak and most hardwood. Likewise, TC is responsib'Le for all
teak sawmilling, most hardwood sawmilling, veneer and hardwood manufacturing
and marketing of wood products, both within and outside Burma. The financial
viability of TC has improved considerably since 1975 resulting partly from
the Goverrnment policy which aims at increased autonomy and accountability
of State enterprises.
26.        Timber extraction reached a peak of 1.3 million Hoppus (H) tons
in 1972/73 but declined thereafter, reaching a low of 1.0 million H tons in
1975/76. The decline was due to shortage of extraction equipment and fuel.
Since then, the IDA-assisted Forestry I and II Projects and the ADB-assisted
Sagaing Forestry Project have provided substantial assistance for extraction,
raising the output to the levels of the early 1970s. About 1.4 million H tons
of teak and other hardwood logs were extracted in 1979/80. TC contributed
about 0.4 million H tons of teak and 0.6 million H tons of other hardwood
while the private sector extracted the remaining 0.4 million H tons of non-
teak hardwoods. The Annual Allowable Cut (AAC) stands at 0.4 million H tons
for teak and 2.1 million H tons for other hardwood.
27.        Burma has a long history of wood processing industries dating back
to at least the late seventeenth century. As a result of this long history,
the Burmese sawmill workers are skilled and very experienced, but, at the same
time many of the sawmills are antiquated and well beyond their economic life.
The processing industry is mainly in the public sector. All the 18 Burmese
teak sawmills are owned and operated by TC. Their annual throughput capacity
of about 275,000 H tons is mostly (about 62%) in mills older than 40 years.



- 8 -
These old mills are inefficient and employ circular saws with wide kerf which
waste a significant amount of the valuable teakwood as excessive sawdust.
Newer technology using bandmills can increase outturn percentage from the
present 43% to 48% Hoppus.                                             1
28.       Burma also has 185 other hardwood sawmills with a capacity of
600,000 tons. These sawmills are small and old with outturn percentage of
about 54% Hoppus. The output of these mills goes almost entirely to the local
market with less than 5% being exported. The IDA-assisted Forestry I and II
projects and ADB-assisted Sagaing forestry projects are providing equipment
and spares (about US$9 million) for rehabilitation and expansion of hardwood
sawmilling capacity.
29.       Other wood industries include three plywood mills and a furniture
and flooring products industrial complex, all owned by TC. The plywood
mills produce teak veneer and urea-bonded plywood panels. They are relatively
small, with an estimated annual capacity of about 13,000 cu m. The machines
are old and worn out resulting in low capacity utilization of about 50%, poor
product quality, and very low outturn of about 20%. FID produces furniture
(about 26,000 pieces) valued at about US$0.7 M annually, and flooring products,
such as teak parquet, mosaic and lamparquet components, valued at about
US$0.3 M. Most of the furniture has traditionally been sold within Burma and
the flooring products outside Burma. Following Government policy of selling
more Burmese teak in processed form, TC is now making increased efforts to
export furniture by improving product quality and marketing and recently
reached an agreement with a Hong Kong firm for technical and marketing
assistance. TC would now like to invest in equipment and facilities for
improving quality and increasing production.
30.       The other forest industries include bamboo-based pulp and paper
manufacture, firewood and charcoal production, and other activities including
resin and wax production. Firewood and charcoal production is about 13
million H tons, and is mostly in the private sector. Pulp and paper pro-
duction is mostly in the State sector. Manufacturing facilities consist of
an integrated pulp and paperboard mill, and a waste-paper paperboard mill.
The production is about 10,000 tons per annum, only about a third of Burma's
paper product consumption. The Government, assisted by consultants, is now
preparing a pulp and paper project for possible IDA financing. It is also
considering approaching FAO/CP for assistance in the preparation of a fuel-
wood project for possible IDA financing.
Review of Progress of Forestry I and II Projects
31.       The Forestry I Project (Credit No. 493-BA of July 12, 1974) was
designed to construct and upgrade forest roads, provide equipment and spare
parts for timber extraction, upgrade some hardwood sawmills and undertake
the Forest Feasibility Studies. Initially, implementation was slow due to
organizational constraints. Problems during implementation included shortage
of spare parts and diesel fuel, slow procurement, inadequate maintenance and
management accounting, insufficient planning and poor performance by consul-
tants. The Government took effective actions to solve these difficulties
resulting in satisfactory project productivity and profitability.



-9-
All major sawmill rehabilitation and construction has now been completed.
Teak extraction from the project area for 1979/80 totalled 127,000 H tons
(over the target of 100,000 H tons) and hardwood extraction near 100,000 H
tons (on target). The improvements in management and operating techniques
initiated in Forestry I provided a basis for enhanced implementation of
Forestry II Project (Credit No. 949-BA of September 21, 1979). As aL follow-up
to Forestry I, Forestry II in the East Pegu Yoma Region was designed to
increase teak exports, increase the domestic market supply of sawn hardwood,
augment teak supplies through compensatory plantations and establish land
clearing Lechniques for future large-scale plantation establishment. In
FY1979/80, the plantation program was carried out in 1,700 acres of teak (on
target). In FY1980/81, the program is being implemented in 3,950 acres of
teak (750 acres above target) and 900 acres of other species (on target).
While the plantation program is well underway, procurement of extraction
equipment and district sawmill equipment is experiencing some delays. The
Government has worked out an action program to keep the procurement on sche-
dule. Six members of the Technical Assistance team under the Burma/Finland
Agreement have arrived in Burma and are contributing their specialized assis-
tance to the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.        Most components of the proposed project were identified in the
Forest Feasibility Studies (FFS) of 1978, financed by IDA under the Forestry I
Project. TC, assisted by FAO/CP, started project preparation work in 1979 and
submitted its project proposal in May 1980. The project was appraised in June
1980 and a follow-up mission visited Burma in October 1980. A report entitled
"Wood Industries I Project - Staff Appraisal Report No. 3162-BA" dated February
19, 1981, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D..C., during February 2-6, 1981. The Borrower's
delegation was led by His Excellency U Ye Goung, Minister of Agriculture and
Forests. Key events relating to the project and special conditions; of the
credit are given in Annex III.
Project Description
33.        The objectives of the proposed project are to improve the efficiency
and raise the local value-added of the teak processing industries, increase
the export of processed products from lower grades of teak, and upgrade the
technical and marketing skills of manpower in the teak processing industries.
The project would be located mainly in Rangoon, involve facilities owned by
TC, and be implemented over four years. Its major components are:
(a)  Reconstruction and modernization of two teak sawmills with
a total of about 105,000 H tons per annum capacity;
(b) Rehabilitation of two plywood and veneer mills;
(c) Expansion of flooring component production by about 144,000
sq m per annum;



- 10 -
(d) Rehabilitation and modernization of the existing furniture
factory;
(e) Improvement of log storage and handling:
(f) Construction of a central workshop;
(g) Strengthening of administrative, marketing, monitoring,
and construction facilities; and
(h) Provision of technical assistance and training.
Organization and Implementation
34.       The project would be mainly implemented by the Government-owned
Timber Corporation (TC). Similar to arrangements made under the Forestry I
and II projects, the TC would establish a project unit (PU) headed by a Project
Director with the rank of at least a Deputy General Manager. The establish-
ment of PU and appointment of a Project Director are conditions of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b)(i) and (ii) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement (DCA)). PU would continue after project completion and would handle
future wood industries projects.
35.       The PU would consist of two operational units (viz., Civil Works
Construction Supervision Unit (CSU) and Equipment Installation and Operating
Unit (EIU)), and three support units (viz., Administration, Finance and Audit).
The CSU would be headed by a Deputy Project Director who would be responsible
for the supervision and monitoring of civil works construction. EIU would be
responsible for the mill layout and foundation, specifications, equipment
installation and start-up operation of the project mills.
36.       Civil works construction of the project mills would be carried out
by the Government-owned Construction Corporation (CC). The CC has sufficient
construction experience and capacity to be able to carry out the work accord-
ing to the project implementation schedule. TC would enter into contractual
agreements with CC, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.14
of the draft DCA). In order to facilitate project implementation, a Project
Civil Works Coordinator within CC would be assigned the responsibility for
coordinating all aspects of the civil works within CC and between TC and CC.
The assignment of such a Project Civil Works Coordinator is a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b)(iii) of the draft DCA). The design
section within CC would prepare detailed construction drawings in coordination
with CSU. Two construction units within CC each headed by an executive engineer
and staffed with 24 engineers, 16 junior engineers and 25 others, would under-
take the physical construction. To upgrade the production and quality control
of the project mills, TC would employ at least one engineer with a mechanical
or industrial engineering background for each of these mills by March 31, 1983
(Section 3.13 of the draft DCA).
37.       Teak Sawmills Reconstruction and Modernization.  The project would
phase out six of the existing 18 old teak sawmills with an input capacity of
about 105,000 H tons and replace them with two modern sawmills of equivalent



capacity. These modern sawmills will use band saws which will reduce raw
material wastage and improve conversion efficiency by five percentage points.
Both sawmills would be located on sites of the existing sawmills to be phased
out. The site for No. 1 miii is or. Rangoon River, a short distance from teak
log storage depots and the Rangoon harbor which is the main export point in
Burma. Some river erosion problem has been noticed on the proposed second
sawmill site, and other sites are being considered. The construction of the
second mill will start in the second year of the project (1982). TC would
study the problem and would select a site acceptable to IDA by August 31, 1981
(Section 3.08(a) of the draft DCA). To minimize the loss and improve the
quality of teak log supply to these sawmills, the project would upgrade log
storage and handling facilities by providing equipment for log salvage and
for strengthening moorings of log protection booms in the Rangoon River.
38.       Plywood and Veneer Mills Rehabilitation.  Burma has only three ply-
wood and veneer mills which are 11 to 21 years old, relatively small and with
a capacity utilization of only about 50% due to frequent breakdowns. Plywood
miLl No. 1 is out of operation and plywood mills No. 2 and No. 3 are badly in
need of rehabilitation. Mill No. 2, which is located in Rangoon, has insuffi-
cient veneer handling capacity, worn-out dryers and no arrangement for flitch
production. Therefore, TC would make arrangements satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for the provision of flitches to plymill No. 2 (Section 3.08(b) of
the draft DCA).  Mill No. 3 which is located in Swa has only one out of two
plywood production lines in operation because of spare parts shortage.  The
project would replace most of the worn-out machines in these mills such as
the veneer reeling/unreeling machine, veneer clipper and splicers, glue
applicator, mill dryers and boilers, rotary peeler and other assoc:iated
equipment. TC would also ensure that adequate funds for spare parts would
be made available to the project mills in the future.
39.       Furniture, Joinery and Flooring Products Expansion.  Furniture
production in the sole furniture and flooring products factory, operated by
the Furniture Industries Department (FID) of TC, is not sufficient to meet
even the local demand and is not up to export qualities. The projlect
would rehabilitate this factory and provide required machinery to increase
furniture production by about 103,000 pieces per year including a new door
and window line producing 2,500 door and 5,000 window sets per year. In order
to provide enough incentive for material cost control, the transfer prices of
the sawnwood and plywood from the TC mills to the furniture factory would be
raised by April 1, 1982, to the local market price levels for local grades,
and to export price levels for export grades (Section 3.12 of the draft DCA).
The Burmese flooring products have strong export demand but production is
constrained primarily by limited timber seasoning capacity. The project would
expand timber seasoning facilities and would provide a new steam generating
plant of higher capacity. In addition, a new 80 sq. meters/hour mosaic
parquet line and replacement equipment for existing parquet lines would be
provided.
40.       Central Workshop, Construction Facilities and Administrative Support.
Most of the wood processing industries have suffered due to inadecuate and
delayed maintenance and repair. Thus, TC would establish a central workshop
to service all of the project mills. The project would provide a machine shop,



- 12 -
foundry, and forging section to the workshop, as well as construcu houses for
workers near the workshop. Project management and monitoring would be provided
by the Project Unit. Since existing facilities are not sufficient to accommo-
date the new group, the project would provide office space, seven housing
units, transportation and construction equipment. These facilities and
equipment would also be available for subsequent wood industries projects.
41.        Technical Assistance and Training.  The project involves substan-
tial technology transfer through the modernization of sawmills, plywood mills,
veneer manufacture and furniture industries. About 120 man-months of tech-
nical assistance costing about US$11,000 per man-month (including transport
and overhead) in the areas of production planning and control, saw doctoring,
plywood technology, veneer slicing technology, plymill and sawmill maintenance,
furniture design, and industrial cost accounting would be provided. The
technical assistance consultants would assist the PU with equipment installa-
tion and start-up, provide on-the-job training to managers and skilled workers
and produce operational guidelines and manuals. One sawmill and one plywood/
veneer mill would be selected to be the site of on-the-job training. Pre-
service training would continue to be given at the existing TC training
school in Rangoon. About 160 man-months of overseas training in the areas of
factory management and maintenance, furniture design, production technology,
quality control, cost accounting and marketing would be provided. TC would
prepare a detailed program for overseas training which would be furnished to
IDA by June 30, 1982 for its review and comments (Section 3.07 of the draft
DCA). In addition, the Government would retain engineering, management
and accounting consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA by
December 31, 1981 (Section 3.02 of the draft DCA).
Markets and Prices
42.        Export grade teak sawnwood would account for about 70% (in value
terms) of project production and about 85% of project exports. Teak sawnwood
markets are strong with prices increasing by about 25% per annum in the last
decade. TC export order backlog of 47,000 S tons, equivalent to 8 months'
exports underscores the market strength. Thus, it is expected that the
project incremental production of about 5% of total teak sawnwood exports
would not pose any marketing problem. While there has been a fast rise in
Burmese sawnwood export prices in the last ten years, the average export price
for good quality teak represents about 30% of the average retail price in
Europe and the United States due principally to marketing channel costs,
transport cost, poor sawing quality, and product mix differences. The project
would contribute to the minimization of these price differences by improving
sawing quality through sawmill modernization and thus increase earnings.
43.        Other export products, such as teak veneer, flooring products and
furniture, form about 12% of project production and are well priced. Markets
for these products are very competitive. In order to promote sales of these
products, TC would establish, by October 31, 1981, a Product Promotion and
Marketing Unit (Section 3.10 of the draft DCA). The remaining 18% of project
production would be for the supply-constrained local market where marketing is
not a problem. Only lower grade project output would be sold on local market
for which the current prices are adequate. In order to maximize export



earnings, sales to the local market of teak sawnwood from the project aills
would be limited to about 20% of annual production (Section 3.11 of the draft
DCA).
Cost, Financing and Relending
44.       The total project cost is estimated at US$63.8 million of which
US$32.2 million is foreign exchange. The local cost component of about US$31.6
million equivalent includes taxes and duties of about US$18 million equivalent.
The proposed IDA credit of US$32 millior equivalent would finance foreign
exchange costs of US$29.0 million equivalent and aDout US$3.0 million equiva-
lent of local costs.  FINNIDA would finance on a grant basis the technical
assistance and training component costing about US$2 million equivalent in
foreign exchange. Satisfactory arrangements for FINNIDA financing is a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft DCA). The
proposed IDA credit and the proposed FINNIDA grant would together finance
about 74% of total project cost net of taxes and duties. The total proceeds
of the IDA credit would be relent to TC at an interest rate of 10% per annum,
repayable over 15 years, including four years' grace. TC would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The relending interest rate of 10% is a positive rate
since inflation in Burma is projected at about 7-8% over the project imple-
mentation period. In addition, the relending interest rate is higher than
local bank interest rates available to corporations in Burma. The execution
and delivery of a relending agreement between the Government and TC is a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft DCA). The
TC would finance US$28.6 million equivalent of local costs and US$1.3 million
of foreign exchange costs for the equipment and materials reserved for procure-
ment under local procedures (paragraph 46).
45.       Despite its variable output, TC has always been a financially pro-
fitable organization. TC's total assets were about Kyat 1.7 billion (US$264
million) at the end of fiscal 1978/79.  TC's after-tax return on total net
assets rose from 7% in 1976/77 to 15% in 1978/79 while long-term debt-to-equity
ratio decreased from 73% in 1976/77 to 49% in 1978/79. Projections of TC's
financial performance show that TC would generate sufficient funds after
project completion to maintain a long-term debt-to-equity ratio of Less than
40% and debt-service ratio of less than 15%. PU, which would 'nave separate
balance sheet and income statement, would also retain a sound financial
structure with long-term debt remaining below 45% of long-term capiltal. The
financial rate of return for the PU would be about 16% after paymenit of all
investment and operating taxes and duties. The project would thus generate
satisfactory cash flow for debt service and future capital expenditures.
The project's fiscal rate of return to the Government would be about 27%. On
the average, the Government would receive about 44% (US$7 million equivalent)
of annual incremental revenues in the form of taxes and duties.
Procurement
46.       The PU would be responsible for all procurement.  Equipment valued
at about US$35 million equivalent and steel sections (US$1 million equivalent)
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with IDA procurement guidelines. Other equipment such as calculators, office
furnishings, vehicles, cement and steel rods (costing about US$2 million



- 14 -
equivalent, of which US$1.3 million in foreign exchange) which are produced in
Burma would be reserved for local procurement and therefore would not be
eligible for IDA financing. Other construction materials, such as sand,
shingle, bricks, and timber (about US$5.0 million equivalent), which are not
suitable for ICB would be procured locally through normal Government procure-
ment procedures. Small imported off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$10,000 c.i.f. each which are not suitable for ICB, would be purchased
through normal Government procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA. Pur-
chases of such items would be limited to a total of US$300,000, excluding
taxes and duties.
47.       Project management, monitoring and incremental working capital (US$2
million equivalent) and civil works labor and overhead (US$3 million equiva-
lent) would be locally financed. Technical assistance and training (about
US$2 million equivalent) would be financed by FINNIDA following its guidelines.
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would be made against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, materials
and supplies or 100% of ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured goods (US$29.0
million); and (b) 65% of local expenditures on locally-manufactured construc-
tion materials (US$3.0 million). These disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1985--approximately nine months after project completion.
Applications for withdrawals would be fully documented and no statements of
expenditures would be necessary.
49.       To avoid delays in project civil works construction, retroactive
financing of up to US$0.3 million equivalent is recommended for expenditures
incurred for equipment and materials procured after January 1, 1981.
Project Benefits and Risks
50.       The project would enhance utilization and efficiency of Burma's
forest and forest industries sector through the modernization and rehabilita-
tion of the teak sawmills and plywood mills, allowing for increased production
of wood products such as furniture, teak veneer, and flooring products. The
project would increase annual teak sawnwood output by about 5,300 S tons and
improve quality of about 38,000 S tons of export grade sawnwood. Teak-faced
plywood production would increase by 4 million sq ft; other plywood, by 14
million sq ft; teak veneer, by 21 million sq ft; furniture and joinery products
by 103,000 pieces and flooring products by 144,000 sq meters. This incremental
production would generate annual revenues of about US$17 million of which
about 72% would be in foreign exchange. To attain the increases in production,
the project mills would be operated at least on a two-shift basis (Section
3.09 of the draft DCA).
51.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the whole project is estimated
at about 25%. The ERR for the teak sawmills component (50% of total cost)
is about 30%; the ERRs of the other components range between 20% and 30%.
Operating and capital costs can individually double without affecting project
viability. Similarly, even if only half of the production increases are
realized, the project would remain viable.



52,       The main project risk would be delays in civil works construction,
which have affected some projects in Burma. These delays have been due to
a shortage cf local construction material, mainly hardwoods, and inadequate
staffing of engineering personnel. Since TC is the main supplier of construc-
tion hardwood, material shortage would be less of a problem for a TC project.
To ensure the timely implementation of the civil works construction, TC
would enter into contractual agreements with CC, and a Project Civil Works
Coordinator would be assigned within CC (paragraph 36).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54,         Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) esLablishment of a Project Unit within TC and appointment
of a Project Director;
(b) assignment of a Project Civil Works Coordinator within CC:
(c) execution and delivery of the relending agreement (Subsidiary
Loan Agreement) between the Government and TC; and
(d) satisfactory arrangements for FINNIDA co-financing.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles ot Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 24, 1981



- 16 -                                                    ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
TARLE IA
N hURIIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PIURKA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVPRACES
LAJDS oR6 (T,I,UStiL.  Sq ,   ti                                                      HOST RECENT ESTIMATEL8
TOTAL             67h.6
AGRlCULCUR.       13. 6                                  MOSi RECENT         LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  ]b    1970 LD ESTIKATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    50.0         70.0      160.0              212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        55.0         58.0      64.0               166.0                   842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAIION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       21.8         27.0      32.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3           22.8       26.2               20.8                    39.1
POPULATIOIJ PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         51.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           92.0
yEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2145
POPULATION DENSITY
FER SQ. Kn1.                        32. 0        40.0      48.0               193.2                   376. 1
PEN SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0          253.0     311.0               409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           38.4         40. 0      41.0               42.0                    40. 4
15-64 YRS.                           59. 0        57.0      55.3                55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2. 6         3.0       3.7                 3.0                     3.4
POPULATION GCRbTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9          2.2        2.2                2. 2                    2.4
URBAN                                5. 7         3.9        4.0                3. 9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RAIE (PER THOUSAND)       43.0         40.0       39.0               37.4                    28.7
CRUDE DEATH RArE (PER THOUSAND)       22.0         17.0       14.0               14.6                     7.9
CROSS RrPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          2. 7       2.7                2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNIGS
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..        ..                15.6                    39.0
FOOD AID NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           100.0        101.0      97.0               101.4                   116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     92.0        104.0     106.0                92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAIS PER DAY)            50.0         57.0       59.0               49.8                    60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         10.0         12.0      12.0                12.0                    18.8
CsILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       25.0         18.0       15.0               17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.0           49.0       53.0               50.8                    63.0
INFANT !lORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..           ..         ..                 ..                    52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULArION)
TOTAL                                 ..         18.0       17.0               30.2                    42.4
URBAN                                 ..         35.0       30.0               66.0                    62.1
RURAL                                 ..         13.0       13.0               20.0                    29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         35.0      33.0                17.7                    52.8
URBAN                                 ..         45.0       38.0               71.3                    71. 1
RURAL                                 ..         32.0       32.0                 ..                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            9900.0/c    8970.0    5121.0               6322.7                  4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       7540.0    5191.0              9459.0                  2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1561.0       1197.0    1107.0              1758.4                   819.4
URBAN                                 ..        250.0
RURAL                                 ..      15820. 0
ACHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BEM             ..         34.0         ..                 ..                    28.8
HOUSING
ATERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.6           ..
UR8AN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ATERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
ToTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RL1RAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF 11ELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



- 17-                                              ANNEX 1
Page 2 of ,
TABLE 3A
- _         BURMA - SOCIAI INDICATORS DATA SNCET
BURMA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCaCIF
1960  /f   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA 6 PACIBIC
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                56.0        87.0      80.0              80.9                  98.6
MALE                 61.0        92.0      83.0              94.3                   99.2
FEMALE               52.0        83.0      78.0              66.7                  97.7
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 10.0        21.0      22.0              26.6                   55.5
MALE                 13.0        26.0      25.0              34.8                  60.7
FEMALE                7.0        17.0      19.0              18.2                  49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1  OF SECONDARY)   0.5          1.4       1.4               9.9                   13. 7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRUiARY                           42.0        47.0      52.0              41. 1                 34.6
SECONDARY                           ..        32.0        ..              20. 5                 28. 5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       59. 7h        ..      67.0              40.9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.8         1.0       1. 2              1. 8                  9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                25.8                  118.9
POPULATION                         5.0        14.0      21.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..          ..         ..               2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") ClICULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULAT1ON                   ..        15.0      10.0              13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0         8. 1       * -*                                   4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAIIDS)    10408.9    11591.3   13045.6
FEDALE (PERCENT)                  40.1        36.9      36.0              29.4                   36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             68.0        59.6      53.0              70.5                   51.9
lSDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.3        15.4      20.0              11.6                  21.9
PANaICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               47.8        42.9      41.2              37.9                   39.1
MALE                                58.0        54. 1     52. 9             51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                              37.8        31. 1     29. 8             23.7                  29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.0       1. 1              1. 2                   1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/d        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.7/d      40.O/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.5/d       8. 0/e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF EOUSEHOLDS   16. 5/d     21. Oje
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY IN;COME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               '-         '-       94.0             107.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       68.0              86.5                  192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      50.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      36.0                ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       40.0              46.2
RURAL                              ..          ..       40.0              51. 7                 33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatio9-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othcrwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 ond 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
And 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962; /d 1958, Rangoon; Le 1972.
Host recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



18 -ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
MEFINITIPHI Ot SOCIAL IntICATORS
rhaina . asfu.  to'1  dasrh  odrof  agottuda, indicate trstds. and charaterits  ertain major dLff.....a. Sat.s.n   --oIr-ea
soolo-cl coralat ftc des),   I  the reernc   grou  data.  ha. a.rga  are .. populat. fo   raghted artch-n t1man  for  -ah 1,i.d ..
)naat  alf o  tha  ount rca ina grop has data tn- thatlcbrr   Si-o,tha coerg  o. co.t.i.a.               n t   Oo  indica.tor  drpe-fdo,     h   -eI flm    f
daaad Ia ttuItora, -atino suet ha acriasd ic  allgargs of one Indicao  tosother-7csaeaeasol   neu,tcopoc   h   so
ef o-  Indicator at a ties amon  ths countr  ard rh-eferan_os groupe.91~.-I.
ToAlP IToalsI ac  ara  oproalog iaod araadIln    aes                                          ilc    of'rdic      ela   ccn   foicrlo lend.                               ph,
Aaniccriltt.rl - Etal.art of  2agricu -uca  at.a.ard tempoaril  or pescnc.ly                 t0p nleiortoyn_ere-rriifrOcdoh   ohco   oo  cn
for neops, parturr.  -ket and kthen gardens ort-             Ie. CaIon; 1977 data,          male an- ealrd           Paeore ..patclnrss.n   siscn   uaa
94? PER CAPITA  -U itype  h  10 a-eae aGcrenParetpPca tal                                      nelo-o   ySiuctL(fn.nStAL-Kpo.ar   url   o2ceton(otl
-       rba, ad rural) dlcidr~d by tiric  reapoofr   uhecouptahd
oniated by em  cooesn -rthod a -Iord hank Atlas  (1917-79 baela):  l9b0,                      avalable in poblIc a-d prtoncree,a',ccflrd   optaade
1970. and  1979 dat.. 
1ENE15 CONTiihffTl PEff  CAlICOA -  ooA.   ooaato    fonaca'nry(caJaeae   r  nldd                                            ua   oot hlcov  hruor, idiud    roi   edmeia
and lgIe  perlu .1ra-r I gs  sdnhydo-,  dola   n   enera   lo-                                 cner   o   rcary ttaffd  ho     pfvica  (o  hrd ahdlcIt seatnt
trInIy   I~ Iora  of col  quclet-e  capita; 1960. 1970. and 19IarS    iwf,ec)wihofri-uio    condro   and tcrole                                                                 t
data.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~limited r-cg  of a-ia J a-t1   e. Fraatnto   porp__r -rba  hospi-
POPt.'LATIOf5 AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               tropial  locad l WO.   ua   o~inaodmdrladnfoiycnes
TotalPouanocMid-Sear  elic                -A. of July 1; ISS   90   n   99                  Amsln   rcoj                e       oa   orro   dlaost   rdle-h-re
dara.                                                                                        Iris hospttala diolded by the nuber of beda.
U,rb, Pouaio (pe-n-  of-tta)    Patio of urban to  ntal. populatia-;
dfratdeflnfloc.  of urban arena ma fatent  -up-rbility of data                     ROUSING
amn  cutiat; 1960. 1975. ac-d 1)78 data.                                            AeseStofoahodInocrebuabd)-ha,uhc0nd rota)-
t -Is-..                                               ~    ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~A borsol  croor  of    - gou  c  indicidual 0 who th-r  lftio  uater
Poculotlon in coon ills - Current:,,  popun aI roet tune arebad on 191.             an.heI"      aooao        ucr   r10n    a   rnycnh   rlddI
focal poultion by2 ag-yd cot   tei   oraltyad  erilt  rte,                                th  huahldfo  attddlalp.ront
Prjetooproeer   orprd              ltycothcncheoftre   echxeu-                                   ..a . ihe    f  eh csoa   uo-  oal   rbnfadrua  -kocg
lo -ie -aerny at horth in-a.a Ing ouch ..u.t-'a  ret capita  nor                   hro   can   erco   i  l   ra,n   rural.o.oupoe                       A--rgnu
lee,adfeocle lIfe e-pecac   ebiig ot 77.1 year.               PTey.a..lita   rpotol.   loiingLeoudec .o.-peaot rotrtn
meters for f-rtlilt petra io  have thre  lenl  dauo  declia t..noccpied parto.
te-tilify -anodlcg noi. boon   le_e  and past faufly paon   efeinr                       cest   lcrcr    preto   oitc(-rtl   ra    n   ua 
tah uty   heaoind _oe  ofthose nice  -obinatinne of  -ntlalty                    Cdoaforldrl nootOe-i l  c   t  iA01ureaa
andferlitny oeda fo  pojut            pOPOe.oboa   ubn  adrcliolig   ePer. rey
Stationar y Ppoonn"eftn -ttatationOn popcnlai-i there isn  groth sInce
maaoTarnt    ThI ~inI Ir..ed ovly afte  fa-rltty rataa de..t.. n..    EdlccATIO  Nrolrt                         o
tanntdp   h   u           f     thepoeted ourc".terttoso  Ihe  opolaton                     pemPyecol-i pop-             tos,tnly  olda   hlrn  gdh4
ioth   ea   00,an   hecteo  dlinei of. cti .plltp ac   c  elae                          poars~,  hu- du-    dfr-ifrn   egfao   r               yeuain   o
meanb!                    t lo-el.                                                       rntyte  .tib.g ot Ie'sll e.docaciot ec ietma -             ed10   ecn
Tear stefocory opulanco  in reaced - EP  year whn statinary pnplatinn       anta som  papila  re h-bn  or abov  toe ofiolal ac- olh age
only.n                                                                                 VocatIonalh errolloectib   dor -re t -c secnd-o          y Vcttunalo inat  -nio
yeak poulaion   fot97-0"96-I                ad177P.toraontgicea
epulatio  irahiRote (porIetinnra      Aoolgot  rtso   ra  yopu-i.-..(0                        Adult i..eentrn(ecu I Ltraeadi- alen  rea  aud_tus
Erode  imb Rae (perthongod) -.Auoal itf h2oht.potthousad of  -d-pea
Poonlanion; lohI. 1970, ood 1918 da..pta.                                       Ogind   TIO
pupaion;190 1960. 17..ad 19LAid-P -tg.f   dy. dana.                                          aendeatrl     1m d-that. eih  per-ns;d-y        o  ohftt,           re   o
,fit   ats;uaal  floe-pear a19         ge ndn i096.170,             ard I,0h7radcasatdo-oc drol  1uhlto  pdr todnad   of-b                           ypattouh; euniue  ouhi
Ya-otait-cetc,   oul(huPnl.titulcma  o   netr                                                 ooo.eeieeo   ochluodi  pes00  rgsrtofo-ai   e
ofproop        to    _vcoodr  upca  fotonifnl  patn   porm                                     sai   fec;dt   oecortdor   aynth   oanal  onras
almridoenIn  ag g_       iny                                                        gaerlP--tnr pa  thuonood. po ppulaio;  tolude  uoteaa   Ooreo
A-    -th:,p:~ ~ ~           ~ ~~Searoe Crclaio...r.h.naddoclafu)  idonthncraeornlP
"ea ,f odPOduction    . pe   Cactr   (iA-i10)-Idno  prcpt-ona                           tno  "datily geta  -n           s   eoppr. def- o   e. a... pehodca  pub
p--.Roduttitoo  all foo  coodlti-a . Prdnonoon enclod to sed an   fee  and                     licanhO   devoted potharighy pto  eodiggtea   ew.I  t   oetra
atil.a  average p..d. ot  rIc  weighta; 196-AinS, 19710, an1970,   da,                       sod9ubis nir
per da.  Ansiabla  epyl la onop ire dmoatt  prdcIo -lopets  ee                 Total..  Labor Porte (    -o-ane- tonnd teall   sotive     ieraoo        f inldaig
exot,f      n bagntoaohlNtapy  e  acldeaia  fe.sed,                                         ato   o            Ienc uopopdht  oidighuenle,Cndat.ec
qaantilesanadnc modproceo it- ad lutei   itrhto.tqot-                              lfnnin,nvrou              1oare  aret not coparble;- 1967. 1970 sod
cit  anid-boa..lt g oonnid 15og4noi-anetta  tenertr,h-bo-1dy ongta,t ao               TVem-le (ercr  -  Fealh       lbo-   frcdn -oenTV          o  tota  labor fote.
sod s d dltihron         popuiet& ta,adjicin-11penet  ot...s Ari-1ut poerri  P   -   Labor..   foc  inp tarmiog. forir  -dhuTtVt
ho A_Musehold  lee;L.-5   97.adi                  aa                                          finigat  percecdrage..t of       . total  t laorfoce   1960 '. 17  no- 9 aa
Per- fsiasyl  of frorein- (sesoerrda ) -                IeuendOatnlo p -per. ospta          Isilr I.r.... revi) -  abo  forcad to sint-tg.  cntu thio,mouatrg
sal spp1yci fod pr da.  Se  eupdy o  foodisdefined ned shc.P-                     adpei iiy   ae   n                 a   eotaao   oa   laorfote  196,-
qaitenette for all oontrissantullished  b  Ohio provide for a nlu        i971 and 1970 data.
Pe    -g-iapr tf  sorhi-  dfro    c l   end -.tlae -rrtei-tsapl -ff1 fond dd..aesn-tununo  the   CPopltio,  sod lon  tim  trnd Al le sI-
etor   isacatad  ueai.rs    e  day; 1961-6f5. 1970 an   91dt.                            Leool  eednyRnn-ttoo  pylto   ne   Sai   iado
ChIld istes  -I) Portalin tate leer  honeaed) -  utosl ddatb9par thanean   in  the tota  ldher bras
seise data derived fras life tables; IPhO, 1971 aod~~I..... 197  da.pta d f.  Igl di  -biltlt-iTt.
-:~~-tgv  q.iy.1-t  f -t  -d -ppl   'IPecercur oIrrclt incoo .....in  oebPnd hadt'-tienivedhr rches
Aocsetot Safe         I  faeAyc.otd cP, uet!od   jo.. irba, andi. Rural        i- N.          tao-ogppoornl i1960.sce1Is ten toda
...e   f  eol  total.d ubyAn, and            d erl   lco  earh    f aces ..o safe       Ouettnly  dqasds  pu sitil  o   odrqlr                                 ei   a
e'ai ppyitr,a   nccd   ufcaaaaorutsae    otnonlmtte                                          lodei.t
nalersoobas that  ton yc,'eoted  hosholes,-prings, sod sn  sr   el)a          tatinatd  reatIe  F-1rt  InomLes  iSjy   rapita) -ur_1banadrua-
... h.ld   11~~~~~~~~~1-blp '1'1'lan)70e  adfa rect  oebidne  cot  i lnt gPn uha  aras
as ..  f6 peret-e  of thei  nepantIoe-d. .d2 cocletro    .Port  di-Iaoifn   oilDn  I-oisias                                                                     i.
pos  mninld  theinlleno  sod d bispomspi 11!1,oith ortithou        -Irsalm-est,                            .Ptoeoi  Paraysi  and  feeannoc   Dapartat-
ef biths screts-and.a.se'sbtrFby aste-hornshlpsasPor... ntsg of                                                                             rtokorI-  1950
pit Petca sod similar..d1-giteets.dlstfionati



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA*
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1980                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         FY1965-70      FY1970-80       FY1965-80
GNP at Market Prices            5,181        100.0                           2.0             3.8            3.1
Gross Capital Formation         1,195         23.1                          -3.6             6.0            2.7
Gross Domestic Saving             850         16.4
Foreign Capital Inflow            345          6.7
Exports of Goods, NFS             404          7.8                         -13.5             4.7           -1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS             694         13.4                          10.4            -1.5           -2.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added                          Labor Force-/             V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.        _                         Mln.    %                        US$
Agriculture c/                  2,356         45.1                        8.9   67.1                      265
Industry d/                       687         13.2                        1.3    9.8                      528
Services/Trade                  2,179         41.7                        2.5   18.8                      872
Not Elsewhere Specified           .              .                        0.5    4.3
TOTAL                     5,222         100.0                      13.2  100.0                       396
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Public Sector                           Union Government
Kyats mln.       % of GDP                Kyats mln.        % of GDP
FY80            FY80                     FY80            FY80
Current Receipts                         6,214 e/          18.1 e/                4,965             14.5
Current Expenditures                     5,224             15.2                   5,109             14.9
Current Surplus                            990              2.9                    -144            -0.4
Capital Expenditures                     6,346 f/          18.5 f/                1,191              3.5
External Assistance (gross)              3,282              9.6
*   All data for FY1980 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is based on a straight exchange rate conversion using FY1983 GNP
and K 6.572 = $1.00.
b/  Total labor force:  unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
c/  Includes livestock, fishery, and forestry.
d/  Includes mining, power, and construction.
e/  Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
f/ Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                           1974    1975        1976     1977     1978     1979     1980
(Kyats mln. outstanding at end of period)           Mar.     Mar.      Mar.    Mar.       Mar.     Mar.     Mar.
Money and Quasi Money                            4,056    5,342   6,052   6,377   6,631   8,017   9,567
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     4,906    6,222   6,445   6,213   6,550   7,194   9,225
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      685       639      956   1,489   1,706   1,728    1,625
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                 27.7      27.6     25.8     23.6    22.4    25.4    27.9
Consumer Price Index (1970 = 100) a/             144.0    181.3   244.6   280.9   270.1   259.4   274.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon                    6.0      25.9     34.9      14.8    -3.8    -4.0        5.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      16.1      26.8      3.6    -3.6        5.4      9.8     28.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    -31.5      -6.7     49.6     55.8      14.6      1.3    -6.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY1980)
FY78      FY79      FY80
(US$ Mln.)                                           US$ Mln.       %
Merchandise Trade          -174.5   -318.2   -342.1        Rice and rice products         185         42
Exports, mainly f.o.b.   238.6        240.4    400.8    Teak                              101         23
Imports, mainly f.o.b.  -413.1        558.6   -742.9    Base metals and ores               29          7
Services and private                                       Animal feedstuff                 8          2
transfers                  -7.8    -23.5    -28.5    All other commodities              97          22
Official grants (net)        18.5      59.1       80.0
-1 63.8   -282.6   -290.6            TOTAL                    439         100
Current account
EXTERNAL DEBT, March 31, 1979
Long-term capital           194.0     302.1      352.8
Foreign loans               169.1     294.3    426.3                                              US$ Mln.
Debt repayment              -24.3    -28.0       -64.4
Other capital (net)          49.2       35.8      -9.1
Short-term bank credit   -17.6         -6.8       -0.6    Outstanding and Disb.                     860.4
Outstanding, inc. Undisb.              1,608.8
Capital account        176.4    295.3      352.2
Errors and omissions          2.8       17.4      30.0    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY1980
Overall balance         15.4      30.1      91.6    Ratio of debt service to exports of
goods and non-factor services              24.5
Gross Reserves (end
year)                    124.1     162.1     259.9
Net reserves (end year)   28.4         62.7      178.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING, January 31, 1981 (US$ Mln.)
Through Dec. 27, 1971         From Feb. 19, 1973 to                                            IBRD   IDA
US$1.00 = K 4.76              Jan. 25, 1975
US$1.00 = K 4.81
Outstanding and Disbursed                  143.7
From Dec. 27, 1971 to         From Jan. 25, 1975 to
Feb. 19, 1973                 May 1, 1977
US$1.00 = K 5.35              SDR 1.00 = K 7.74             Undishursed                                241.6
From May 2, 1977             Outstanding,  inc.
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51              undisbursed                       --      385.3
As of April, 1980
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51
US$1.00   K 6.60 (approx.)
a/ Annual average at Rangoon for the preceding fiscal year.
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
February, 1981



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page  1
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of January 31, 1981
US$ Million
Loan or                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower          Purpose           Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and three credits fully disbursed          33.1     53.3
483       1974  Burma   Lift Irrigation               -       17.0        1.1
493       1974  Burma   Forestry                      -       24.0        4.6
597       1975  Burma   Livestock                     -        7.5        4.1
642       1976  Burma   Paddyland Development         -       30.0       12.1
671       1977  Burma   Second Ports                  -       10.0        1.3
686       1977  Burma   Tin and Tungsten              -       16.0        1.6
745       1977  Burma   Seed Development              -        5.5        4.9
835       1978  Burma   Paddyland Development II   -          34.5       27.1
879       1979  Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation         -        4.5        4.2
949       1979  Burma   Forestry II                   -       35.0       34.1
958       1979  Burma   Telecommunications II         -       35.0       33.5
1031       1980  Burma   Nyaunggyat Dam                -       90.0       90.0
1092       1981  Burma   Grain Storage                 _       23.0       23.0
Total                                    33.1    385.3
of which has been repaid              33.1       -
Total now outstanding                      -     385.3
Amount sold                   2.7
of which has been repaid  2.7
Total now held by Bank & IDA /a           _      385.3
Total Undisbursed                                241.6      241.6
Total Disbursed                                  143.7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



22 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 483    Irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981
An initial procurement of 10,000 pumpsets (300 g.p.m.) and acces-
sories was awarded to a local supplier, Heavy Industries Corporation. All of
these units have been sold to farmers in the project area. Favorable costs on
various components of the project have been sufficient to permit the purchase
of 3,000 additional low lift pumps.  All of these units have already been sold
to farmers. The construction of four jute baling plants is nearly completed.
Some 550 units of construction equipment were rehabilitated under the equipment
repair program. A reasonable inventory of spare parts remains for future
maintenance. The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments and
drainage channels has been completed. The Closing Date of the Credit has been
extended from March 31, 1980, to April 30, 1981, in order to allow for com-
pletion of disbursements covering consulting services for the preparation of
final design and specifications for the Nyaunggyat Dam project.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 12, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1982
Project implementation is essentially complete. All major sawmill
rehabilitation and construction has been completed. Log production, from
projected area in FY79/80, is well over target for teak and on target for
hardwood. Teak extraction for the year ending March 31, 1980, totalled
127,000 HT (target 100,000 HT) and hardwood extraction of 100,000 HT (on
target). Project productivity and profitability are most satisfactory.
Remaining procurement will be mainly for spare parts.
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30,
1975; Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC) continues
to implement its reduced project responsibilities slowly. Field services are
being provided by the Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Department (VAHD) to all
2,665 villages in the project area. The Artificial Insemination Program con-
tinues to expand with over 80,000 cows now inseminated. Some 3,800 acres of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
pasture have been established and 19 water points have been completed.  Vaccine
production is almost on target. LDMC continues to collect milk from its own
farms and from the private farms; however, milk production ancd collection are
constrained by lack of adequate processing facilities. LDMC has agreed to
construct a new dairy plant for the Rangoon area. GOB has decided to site
the new plant at Pyinmabin, about 20 miles from Rangoon. Tender documents
for constructing and equipping the new plant should be issued shortly. The
Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science (IAHVS) continues with
the overseas training component and hiring of consultant lecturers. Its
building program at Yezin is completed.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 19765; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Despite some delays (mainly due to slow procurement) at the outset
of implementation, the project is now close to the original schedule. The
procurement is almost completed, and the equipment is being used effectively.
Civil works were completed on two islands and nearly completed on another
island. The construction of drainage channels, flood embankments, and water
control structure is progressing satisfactorily on five of the eight islands
in the project area. The construction of O&M buildings in five townships is
about 70% completed. These achievements are commendable, given the initial
delays of project implementation. Reclaimed land on islands where construc-
tion has been completed have been allotted and are being used for agricultural
production. Work on the hydrologic investigations is satisfactory. The
Intensified Extension Program, covering the ten townships of Paddyland I and
II projects, has overcome initial problems and a significant impact has been
observed in the Irrawaddy and Rangoon Divisions.
Cr. No. 671      Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Effective Date:  March 18, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Spare parts for existing equipment, new cargo handling equipment,
and repair materials have been delivered to Burma Ports Corporation (BPC).
The rehabilitation of the suction dredger and the bucket dredger have been
completed. The two dredgers are in operation, one on the Inner Bar and the
other on Sute Pagoda Wharves. A dredging expert has trained dredger crews in
Rangoon, and two dredger masters have been in Holland for training. Training
specialists (ORT) commenced courses for technicians in June :[980. A Joint
Computer Center for BPC and the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation is
being established.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Project implementation is well advanced. Procurement is nearly
complete with orders placed for about US$17.0 million in goods and services.
Capital costs are expected to exceed the appraisal by about 14.8% in foreign



24
ANNEX II
Page 4
exchange costs and 32% in local costs, primarily because of the higher:
(i) cost of the dredge resulting in change from originally selected procure-
ment approach; (ii) taxes and duties on imported equipment; and (iii) costs
of construction and civil works. An EEC Special Action Credit (declared
effective on March 5, 1980) was extended to help finance part of the local
costs of the project. Shortly before delivery of the dredge, the dredge
was damaged by fire in the shipyard. Damage to the dredge is estimated at
about 20% of its cost.  The Government has now reached an agreement with the
insurance company and the contractor on the insurance claims for the dredge.
Following its repair, the dredge sailed from Singapore on October 26, 1980
and arrived Tavoy on November 6. GOB has not yet agreed on the scope of the
sector study (US$200.000 allocated for this purpose) or an alternative study
to prepare a second mining project.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date:  February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
About 90% of land development has been completed at Magwe and 100%
has been completed at Letpedan. Over 1,000 ac have been cleared at Lungyaw.
Building construction is progressing well with most farm structures and
dwellings underway or completed. Most senior staff posts have been filled;
however, there is still a critical shortage of support staff. Overseas
training is behind schedule. About 20 staff members have been selected for
short-course training (3-12 months) during 1980/81. Procurement continues
to be slower than appraisal estimates but is following normal GOB guidelines.
While very positive progress has been achieved, a number of areas need further
improvement. The consultants' schedule for the remainder of their contract
has been slightly revised in consultation with the Agriculture Corporation.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
Procurement of most equipment is progressing on schedule. The
construction of flood embankments, drainage channels, O&M offices, buildings,
and godowns, is progressing satisfactorily. The work of ODA-financed con-
sultants to provide technical assistance to Myanma Agricultural Bank and
prepare a medium- and long-term credit program is progressing well, and the
consultants submitted their draft final report.  Actual disbursement is higher
than appraisal estimates due to early delivery of construction equipment.
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The rehabilitation of the GOB rubber estates is proceeding very
well; however, the lack of adequate permanent laborers hinders development
and replanting. In 1979, the targetted 1,250 acres of old rubber was cleared
and replanted. This represents a major achievement for the project. The 1980



- 25
ANNEX Il
Page 5
program will total 880 acres and land clearing is now underway. Nursery
development is well advanced, supplying the imported clonal seedlings for
the planting program. Estate building program is on schedule. Subject to
financial justification, the project will proceed with plans for coniverting
the crumb rubber factory into a 10 ton per day plant processing scrap.
Equipment procurement is behind appraisal estimates due to the lengthy
government procedures. Rubber section management should concentrate on the
appointment of needed staff and laborers to maintain progress. Unfortunately,
the project manager died in June 1980; this will affect the progress of the
project in the short-term. A new project manager has now been appointed.
Cr. No. 949    Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project; US$35.0 Million Credit
of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 20, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Implementation of the project is now underway with much activity
in equipment procurement. Procurement of extraction equipment and district
sawmill equipment is behind 6-8 months and Okkyin sawmill equipment about 4
months. The June 1980 supervision mission developed an action program with
the executing agencies. Overseas training programs have been prepared and
awaiting approval by MAF. FAO is coordinating the training and is now making
overseas arrangements for the trainees. Six members of the Technical Assis-
tance team under the Burma/Finland Agreement have arrived in Burma and are
getting settled in and contributing their specialized assistance to the
project. The plantation program is under way with about 3,950 acres of teak
and 900 acres of other species.
Cr. No. 958    Second Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
December 18, 1979; Effective Date: March 3, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, the executing agency,
has initiated procurement.
Cr. No. 1031   Nyaunggyat Dam Multipurpose Project; US$90.0 Million Credit
of November 4, 1980; Effective Date: November 19, 1980
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The Credit was signed in Rangoon on November 4, 1980, and declared
effective on November 19, 1980. The bids for the civil works construction
were opened on November 8 and are being evaluated. Construction of the access
road is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1092   Grain Storage Project, US$23.0 Million Credit of February 6, 1981;
Effective Date:  May 7, 1981; Closing Date:  September 30, 1985
The Credit was approved by the Board on January 6, 1981, and signed
on February 6, 1981.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project
One year
(b) Agencies preparing the project
TC with the assistance of FAO/CP
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank
April 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 1980
(e) Date of follow-up appraisal mission
October 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
February 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of a Project Unit (PU) within TC and
appointment of a Project Director (paragraph 34).
(b) Assignment of a Project Civil Works Coordinator
within CC (paragraph 36).



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Execution and delivery of the relending agreement
(Subsidiary Loan Agreement) between the Government
and the TC (paragraph 44).
(d) Satisfactory arrangements for FINNIDA financing
(paragraph 44).
Other Special Conditions
(a) The TC would make arrangements for the provision. of
flitches to plymill No. 2 (paragraph 38).
(b)  The TC would raise, by April 1, 1982, the transfer
prices of sawnwood and plywood to the furniture
factory (paragraph 39).
(c)  The TC would establish, by October 31, 1981, a Pro-
duct Promotion and Marketing Unit (paragraph 43).
(d) The TC would ensure that the sales to the local
market from the project teak sawmills would be
limited to about 20% of the annual production from
such mills (paragraph 43).
(e) The Government would ensure that the project mills
are operated at least on a two-shift basis (para-
graph 50).






IBRD  15250
SEPTEMBER 1980
J                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BURMA
/ '  X         8DWOOD INDUSTRIES I PROJECT
R ANGOON
I !RNATIONAL                     ,4                                                Wood Processing Mills cand Foctories
\   /   <                        XX         (AI~~~~~~~RPORT           lr, f            \ t                                    TE
OTFHER
J y Wood Processing M,lbs rnd Factories
La~g Depots
0     Timber Corporation Headquarters
Built-up Areas
KA IN                                                                  \                                                                          \ ( : ~<; , -  Roods
-4-- --4--- Rsilbauys
7~ RivEbers
NSEIN                                                                                          7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -   rte roanali,. Bc,,ndories
Pbo Ama                    i,oSA'                                                                               W
L 
-4        -        .oceO\so or eh bu.irdrrre9
)   cM 3  -iPEOPLES                      lv                k                                                         tA;             \~~~~~~~~~~~~~SWM  LL
2~~~~~~G    I 1  /                                                                                                                                                     J
: Psi9,                                                                                                                       X L 'W
INDIHALAN
4A J7d f Aff           CH iNA
01   N   t !  ?   (   Thsm aphasbernptePst    dbVeXtl  WsrldSenS'ssDffext/uS/velyforrheconvitnienez  ~~~~~~~~~~  [_  i              9T 31
[                      }        3t        o reedtot-potoncVoetahdTeeomelnueedh 
BL      -JRMAbudre    h wo                           hsma   ontmi,o    h    reorh      ol    ekn    t                                            H mt/
B                         _    afire avud/eno  heetIsattfan  erioro LA.das/mno
i~~~~ ~          3            PEOP         ccpLEc o uc  oudnd            



