Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11465
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1320-MAL)
DECEMBER 22, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1992:  US$1.00 =  MRf 10.35
1991:  US$1.00 = MRf 10.2526
1990:  US$1.00 = MRf 9.5517
1989:  US$1.00 = MRf 9.0408
1988:  US$1.00 = MRf 8.7846
1987:  US$1.00 = MRf 9.2230
1986:  US$1.00 = MRf 7.1507
1985:  US$1.00 = MRf 7.0981
1984:  US$1.00 = MRf 7.05
1983:  US$1.00 = MRf 7.05
ABBREVIATIONS
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organisation
FPID    Fisheries Project Implementation Department
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
GOM     Government of the Republic of Maldives
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IFAD    International Fund for Agriculture Development
MOF     Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture
MT      Metric Tons
OPEC    Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCC     Project Coordinating Committee
PCR     Project Completion Report
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
STO     State Trading Organisation
TA      Technical Assistance
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Maldives
Second Fisheries Proiect (Credit 1 320-MAL)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Maldives
Second Fisheries Project (Credit 1320-MAL)" prepared by FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme for the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part 11 contributed by the
Borrower.  The report provides an accurate and comprehensive record of project
implementation and outcomes.
Despite delays and some deficiencies in technical assistance delivery, the project
achieved its major objectives. It increased fish production beyond appraisal targets. It is rated
as satisfactory and sustainability as likely.
The policy shift from frozen to canned tuna exports required specification changes
and increased costs. The borrower considers that the shift remains justified, even though the
re-estimated rates of return suggest that frozen tuna is more remunerative than canned tuna.
Recent changes in tuna prices highlight the need for a diversified export policy and better
pricing mechanisms. Cost reductions with increased involvement by the private sector are
being explored. Careful monitoring of landings is desirable even though tuna stocks do not
appear to be under pressure.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Cr. 1320-MAL)
Table of Contents
PREFACE      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....    .
EVALUATION SUMMARY iii
PART I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . .1
1.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2. Background .1
3.  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . .             2
4.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . .             3
5.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .             5
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             8
7.  Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . .            11
8. Bank Performance .11
9.  Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
10. Project Relationship . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
11. Consultancy Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            14
12. Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . .            14
PART II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Introduction                                                15
2.  The Project's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . .            15
3. The Project.                             . . . . . .   16
4.  The Project Design and Implementation                       16
5.  Management Consultancy . . . . . . . . . . . . .            17
6. Overall View .17
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Tables) . . . . . . . . . .             18
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  . . . . . . .            18
2.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            19
3.  Disbursement Information . . . . . . . . . . . .            20
4.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .            21
5.  Project Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . . .            24
6. Project Results .25
7.  Status of Major Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . .            26
8.  Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . .            28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS (Tables)
1.   Mechanized Dhonis Engaged in Fishing
2.   Total Fish Production and Export
3.   Estimated Fish Catch per Dhoni
4.   Estimated Incremental Fish Production from
2nd Generation Dhoni
5.   Felivaru Tuna Cannery - Fish Purchases and Total Canned
Tuna Production
6.   Felivaru Cannery:  Production Value
7.   Second Generation Vessels:  Cash Flow Projections and
Financial Rate of Return
8.   Producer and Export Prices of Fish and Fish Prodcts and Fish
Products
9.   Inflators/Deflators and Exchange Rates
10. Total Project Cost
11. Refrigeration Complex - Investment Cost
12. Operating Cost: Refrigeration Complex and Total Felivaru
Complex
13. Refrigeration Complex: Financial Rate of Return
14. Economic Rate of Return
15. Project Economic Rate of Return Based on Export of FrozLn Fish
MAPS:  IBRD 16116R (December 1982)
IBRD 16117R (December 1982)
IBRD 16832  (December 1982)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Cr. 1320-MAL)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Fisheries Development Project in the Republic of Maldives (ROM) for which an
IDA Credit (Cr. 1320-MAL) in the amount of SDR4.8 million (US$5.0 million
equivalent) was approved on February 18, 1983. An IFAD Loan of SDRl.9 million
(US$2.0 million equivalent), an OPEC Loan of US$0.9 million, and a Norwegian
Government Grant of US$4.1 million were also approved to finance the Project.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1991, eighteen months behind schedule.
Actual IDA disbursement amounted to SDR4.7 million or 98% of the total Credit;
IFAD and OPEC disbursements amounted to SDR1.7 million (90% of the Loan) and
US$0.85 million (94% of the Loan) respectively. The Norwegian grant, which
was later increased to US$5.6 million, was fully utilized. The undisbursed
balances of SDR68.000 from the IDA Credit and SDR182,000 from the IFAD Loan
were canceled in August and December 1991 respectively. The amount of
Us$50,700 from OPEC Loan was canceled in December 1991.
The PCR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
mission which visited the Maldives in January/February 1992. Its preparation
was based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR: Report No. 4084 -
MAL) dated January 6, 1983, the Development Credit and Project Agreements,
both dated February 18, 1983. and a review of the Bank's supervision reports
and project files; field visits to project sites; discussions with the
Borrowers' project staff; and interviews with fishermen and with World Bank
staff associated with the Project.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Cr. 1320-MAL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    The Project was the World Bank Group's second lending operation associated
with the Maldivian fisheries sector. The Project, approved on February 18, 1983,
was to support the Government of the Maldives (GOM) in its effort to increase the
country's fish production and develop export markets for frozen tuna.  These
objectives were to be achieved by the provision of fish collection, handling,
freezing and storage facilities; boat repair and fuel distribution facilities and
other miscellaneous equipment.   To assist GOM in the implementation of the
Project and in the operation and management of facilities the Project provided
technical assistance (TA), and financed training to local staff, both in the
country and overseas (para 3.2). Funds were also provided for the preparation
of a follow up project.
Implementation Experience
2.    The Project was implemented between 1983 and 1991, and the original closing
date of December 31, 1989 was extended two times, for a total of 18 months, to
June 30, 1991. The delay was largely during the initial stages of implementation
and was due mainly to the interruptions needed fordetailed design work, in order
to integrate the proposed project facilities with the tuna cannery also to be
managed by the State Trading Organization (STO), which was under construction at
the same site.   Parallel to this, the contract negotiations between STO and
consulting engineers took a long time, as a result of additional tasks expected
from the consultants because of variations to the original designs.   The
Project's planned export strategy of complete reliance on frozen tuna exports
then changed to a predominant reliance on canned fish export.
3.    Changes during implementation were mainly in respect of service and housing
facilities to be provided. These had to be matched to overall requirements of
both the cannery and the refrigeration complex, and with the fuel distribution
facilities. The Government felt that the specifications for tankers and storage
tanks  originally  proposed  were  inadequate.        The  revised  designs  and
specifications resulted in increased costs, which were born by STO (para 5.4).
In the case of fishing vessels, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) proposal to
finance medium and long range vessels was dropped, in favor of improved dhonis,
which were in high demand in the country because of their catching efficiency and
stability. With the exception of the fuel storage and distribution component,
no other major delays were experienced during subsequent implementation of the
project.



- iv -
4.    The planned TA for assisting STO in the operation and management of the
facilities was revised several times, because of the change in the Project
concept, and uncertainties in the type of services expected from this
consultancy.   It was eventually based on the outcome of a management and
organizational plan prepared by STO consultants which took into consideration all
fisheries activities of STO. Over 100 staff-months of consultants were employed
under the revised TA component. The performance of this consultancy was less
than satisfactory. There was significant change in foreign training from the
original 36 months to over 160 months during implementation. The preparation of
a follow up project was deleted. Subsequently, using FAO resources, GOM with the
assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, prepared a detailed
feasibility study for the establishment of a tuna freezing and export complex in
the southern part of the country. IDA later appraised the Project which has now
been approved for financing in conjunction with other donors.
Project Results
5.    Overall, the Project was successful in achieving most of the objectives as
envisaged at appraisal, albeit with some modifications. Fish production in the
Project area from all boats increased by over 100% after the complex became
operational, and surpassed appraisal estimates (Annex 1, Table 2 and 3). The
catch per day per fishing vessel averaged 356 kg as compared to 300 kg at
appraisal. New boats (40 second generation dhonis) introduced under the Project
are in high demand because of their catching efficiency. The increasing demand
for fuel in the islands as a result of the Project and the liberalization of fuel
distribution have stimulated the private sector to take up fuel imports and
distribution. The financial rate of return (FRR) of the second generation dhonis
has been estimated at 23.4% (Annex 1, Table 7), slightly lower than that
estimated at appraisal (26%). Return to labor for crew operating these vessels
(MRf30/day) competes favorably with current wage rates in the country.   The
estimates of annual incremental fish catch at 9,900 MT at Project Closing Date
and 11,300 MT at full development compare favorably with the SAR estimate of
8,700 MT.
6.    Fish purchases by the refrigeration/cannery complex have increased by over
200% to 14,700 tons, between the period 1987 to 1991 (Annex 1, Table 5). The
refrigeration complex financed under the Project has helped in increasing fish
collection and in economizing the cannery operation. Canned tuna production has
also increased 200% during the same period  (Annex  1, Table 5).   If the
refrigeration complex operated as a free-standing operation and exported frozen
tuna as envisaged at appraisal, the FRR, based on original assumptions would be
around 16.8% which is still higher than the appraisal FRR of 12%. Since the fuel
distribution system is not yet operational, the FRR for the system has not been
reestimated. The ERR for the investment as a whole, taking into account the
overall operation of both the cannery and the refrigeration complex, is estimated
at 14.4% (Annex 1, Table 14), compared to SAR estimate of 27% for the
refrigeration complex. Major deviation from the expectation at appraisal is that
instead of export as frozen fish, most of the catch iB canned for export. Over
950 persons are currently employed at the Felivaru complex and on the job
training by STO employed specialists has been successful. A number of STO/FPID
(Fisheries Project Implementation Department) staff have received training abroad
which has been rewarding, and FPID is now better prepared to implement its work
program.



Sustainability
7.    The Project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits
through its economic life. Production costs, in particular wages however are
high (para 7.1) and represent the main risk factor for the complex to remain
competitive in the future. STO is in the process of cutting down costs without
affecting the product quality, reducing the number of staff from 1,200 in 1990
to 943 in 1992. A mechanism for reducing freight costs is also being examined.
STO intends to sell or lease their fuel tanks to the private sector, as private
sector intervention in the fuel trade has improved the system tremendously, and
this trend is likely to improve in the future. Regarding fish resources, there
has been no drop in catch per unit effort so far and tuna stocks are not under
any undue pressure. Landings however, should be carefully monitored to implement
management measures if and when necessary.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.    Project success can be attributed to simple and flexible project design
which involved proven technology and the availability of ample fish resources
within the reach of the traditional fisheries.   The project preparation and
supervision were effective as there was continuity of staff and most supervision
missions  contained  relevant  technical  expertise.    At  the  same  time  the
performance of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)/STO and supporting agencies
has been good. The important negative factor that affected the early stages of
project implementation was the lack of direct technical support to PIU/STO, and
this was particularly important as it was the first Bank project executed by STO.
Although tuna resources are not constrained, it would have been prudent to
include in the Project a study that would have strengthened the knowledge of tuna
resources, as this would have helped GOM in strengthening the resource management
measures and effectively plan future investments.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Cr. 1320-MAL)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name       :     Second Fisheries Project
Credit No.               1320 MAL
RVP Unit                 East Asia and Pacific Region
Country            :     Republic of Maldives
Subsector          :     Fisheries
2. Background
2.1       Fisheries in the Maldives is a dominant sector of the economy, and has
traditionally been responsible for the highest sectoral employment. Prior to
1972, the country's sailing vessels produced tuna for traditional processing into
salted, smoked and dried products primarily for export to Sri Lanka. Starting
in 1972, Sri Lanka drastically curtailed its imports from Maldives, prompting the
Government of Maldives (GOM) to develop alternative markets for tuna exports.
Foreign companies were given concessions to buy tuna from fishermen for freezing
aboard their collector and mother vessels and export to destinations of their
choice. A small tuna cannery was set up as a joint venture between three
Japanese companies and GOM on the Felivaru island. This change in tuna marketing
was followed by the mechanization of the sailing vessels, making them more
versatile and more efficient. Mechanized fishing vessels operated full time,
close to foreign operated collector and mother vessels usually near the best
fishing grounds.   In other areas fishing by sailing vessels continued at
subsistence  level.    Because  the  country  did not  have  adequate  an  fuel
distribution system, the foreign companies had to assume responsibility for
delivery of fuel to fishing vessels which delivered fish to them. Demand for
fuel soon exceeded the storage capacity of the collector vessels, and fuel was
rationed to quantities barely sufficient for a short day fishing trip.  This
limited the radius of fishing vessel operations.
2.2       The rapid growth of tourism after 1978 created a substantial demand
for services of the mechanized fishing vessels for inter-island transport.
Despite the reduction in number of operating fishing vessels, fish production and
exports increased. The main factors behind this positive performance were the
efficiency of mechanized vessels, fish collection operation by foreign companies,
and higher export prices for tuna. In 1981, however, the World Market price for
skipjack tuna started to fall as a result of over supply and stagnant markets for
canned tuna.   Foreign firms which operated the collector and mother vessels
started negotiating with GOM for new fish prices.   As the crisis continued
foreign firms withdrew and the GOM, through its State Trading Organization (STO),
purchased the foreign assets and took over the operation of these activities.
Simultaneously, given the importance of the sector, GOM adopted broad policy
objectives, which emphasized: (a) maintenance and expansion of fish production,
(b) maintenance of export channels for fish; and (c) distribution of the benefits
of fishing as equitably as possible. The Government's overall strategy was to



-2-
develop and maintain an export-oriented fishing sector to provide foreign
exchange to pay for imports of essential goods.
2.3       The World Bank Groups' (Bank) involvement in support of the Maldive's
fisheries development began with the signing of the Credit (Cr. 907-MAL) for the
first International Development Association (IDA) Fisheries Project in June 1979.
The Project was designed to assist primarily GOM's program for mechanization of
fishing vessels. During the course of the supervision of the first project, GOM
and IDA maintained a continuing dialogue on the sector policy and future IDA
financing. In 1981, IDA helped GOM to identify the Second Fisheries Project.
This Project was prepared in September 1981, with assistance of an IDA mission,
with funds provided by United Nations Development Program, and appraised in
March/April 1982.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1       Objectives.   The main objectives of the Project were to help GOM
expand the fisheries sector infrastructure to enhance productivity of the fishing
fleet, develop new markets for frozen tuna exports, strengthen the diesel fuel
distribution system, and facilitate the existing fish pricing system to become
more effective in promoting increased production. These aims were to be achieved
by financing investments in fish collection, freezing and storage, boat repair,
and fuel distribution facilities, the lack of which had greatly hampered
mechanized fishing operations.   In addition,  the Project provided for the
introduction of fishing vessels of improved designs to carry out inshore and
distant water fishing, technical assistance, and training.
3.2       Components.  The Project components as appraised were:
(a)  Refrigeration complex:   (i) Construction of a 750 MT capacity cold
storage, 35 MT chill store, 40 MT/day brine freezer, 25 MT/day ice
plant and 150 MT ice storage capacity at Felivaru island in Lhaviyani
atoll, to handle a throughput of 6,000 MT annually; and (ii) supply
of insulated fish boxes and fish handling equipment.
(b) Collector vessels: Construction of four fish collector vessels, two
each of 5 MT and 10 MT capacity, to complement an existing fleet of
four vessels and increase the combined capacity to 54 MT per day, to
enable STO to collect fish from five to eight collection stations and
hold the catch in insulated holds with ice-cooled water until delivery
to the refrigeration complex.
(c)  Fuel Storage  and Distribution Facilities:   (i)  Construction  and
installation of 11 fuel storage tanks, of 15,000 liter capacity each,
at selected atolls; (i') procurement of two steel oil tankers each
with a 95,000 liter capacity; (iii) construction of 2 bulk storage
tanks with a total capacity of 1.6 million liters, including delivery
pipes, to be installed at Felivaru.
(d)  Fishing Vessels:   Construction of 20 fishing vessels of designs
developed under the first project to exploit distant fishing grounds
beyond the reach of traditional fishing vessels.



-3-
(e)  Infrastructure:      (i)  Construction  of  a  500  MT  rain  water
collection/storage facility at Felivaru and a standby 10 MT/day
reverse osmosis desalination plant including distribution channels;
(ii) installation of an electric power generating unit consisting of
three 110 KVA generators and one standby 35 KVA generator to meet
power requirements of the complex; (iii) strengthening of the existing
jetty at Felivaru for discharging of fuel into the main storage tanks
at Felivaru, loading the project's fuel distribution tankers, fish
landing and loading of frozen fish; (iv) construction of a 100 MT
slipway with a workshop; (v) procurement of a passenger transport
vessel; and (vi) construction of 14 staff houses, a guesthouse and
dormitories.
(f) Technical Assistance: Provision of: (i) 42 staff-months of consultant
services for the preparation of detailed designs and construction
supervision; (ii) a training specialist for 12 staff-months; (iii) 120
staff-months of management assistance to operate the complex
(consisting of a team of 4 experts); and (iv) services for 18 staff-
months of a fuel distribution manager.                            I
(g)  Training:   Strengthening of the Vocational Training Centre  (Male)
(staff, equipment and buildings) to train technicians for the complex,
and provision of 36 staff-months of foreign training for three line
managers of the refrigeration complex.
(h) Preparation of a Follow-up Project: Provision of 12 staff-months of
consultancy services to be hired by GOM.
3.3       The Project, phased over a six-year period, was estimated to cost
US$12.6 million, with civil works, equipment, collector boats and fishing vessels
accounting for 75Z of the total cost; the balance of the cost being for technical
assistance and training.  The Project cost was to be financed through an IDA
Credit of US$5.0 million (SDR4.8 million), an International Fund for Agriculture
Development (IFAD) Loan of US$2 million (SDRl.9 million), an Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) loan of US$0.9 million, a Norwegian
Government grant of US$4.1 million (later increased to US$5.6 million), and GOM
contribution of US$0.6 million. The IDA Credit was negotiated in November 1982,
signed in February 1983 and became effective on August 30, 1983. The STO was
responsible  for  implementing  all  components  of  the  Project,  except  the
preparation of a follow-up project.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       Project Concept:  The successful boat mechanization program carried
out under the first IDA Project (Cr. 907-MAL) and the experience of fish
collection and exports carried out by the Japanese companies in the south of the
country, provided a clear and sound foundation for the design of this Project,
and was shared and understood by both IDA and GOM.  The project concept was
developed over a two-year period, with major inputs from Bank staff, and with the
assistance of participating institutions (STO and Ministry of Fisheries and
Agriculture (MOF)).  The Project was conceived as a free standing operation,
collecting fish in the Northern region of the country, to be frozen and stored
for export at a shore-based freezing complex at Madivaru island. The subsequent



-4-
take over by STO of the on-going fisheries operations in the country (para 1.2),
including the Japanese-run tuna cannery at Felivaru, and the STO's decision to
expand the Felivaru cannery, made a change in the project environment as
appraised.    Consequently,  it was  decided by  STO  to  locate  the proposed
refrigeration complex at Felivaru, and the Project's planned export strategy to
complete reliance on the export of frozen fish shifted to a predominant reliance
on canned fish exports. These decisions were made by STO and GOM well after the
Project became effective and without any consultation with IDA. The Goverament
made a strong plea to the Bank for developing this diversified export strategy,
which would permit switching product lines in response to changing world prices
and market conditions.  A reassessment carried out by STO on this basis was
accepted by the Bank.
4.2       Project Design:  As stated in para 1.6, the Project was conceptualized
by Bank staff, and designed to increase fish production, and develop new markets
for frozen tuna exports. The project design had a strong linkage with the First
Fisheries Project. Design assumptions were modest and realistic and in line with
experience gained elsewhere in the country. The combined effects of an adequate
fuel supply to fishing vessels and regular arrangements for fish purchase and
collection were expected to result in increasing the number of fishing days from
140 to 190 and the catch per mechanized boat from 250 kg to 300 kg per day. The
site selected for development of the refrigeration complex at Lhaviyani atoll was
appropriate because it is close to well populated islands and excellent fishing
grounds, and has a well protected landing facility, as well as deep water
sufficient for anchorage of fish collector and reefer vessels.   Substantial
technical assistance was appropriately included because of GOM's limited
resources to implement and manage project facilities.
4.3       Government's decision to build a new tuna canning plant at the project
site, and the major shift in export strategy from frozen to canned tuna (para
1.6), and creating a need to integrate the project design with the STO
operations, raised two fundamental questions: (a) appropriateness of the capacity
of the refrigeration complex and other support facilities as appraised; and (b)
the adequacy of economic returns resulting from project-funded infrastructure and
a refrigeration complex, a change not foreseen at appraisal, of their catering
to the STO tuna cannery. A major concern at this stage was the duplication, or
overlapping of certain works which were common to the new cannery, which was
already under construction, and the facilities to be installed under the IDA
Second Fisheries Project, the designs of which had been advanced to the bid
evaluation stage.   In July 1985 it was therefore decided to reject the bids
received and redesign the capacity of the refrigeration plant, its associated
civil works and other infrastructure for retendering following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.  These changes led to long initial delays
in project implementation.
4.4       Project Preparation and Appraisal:  The Project was well prepared in
most respects.   It had, however,  several design flaws,  some of which were
addressed during project implementation (see paras 1.12 to 1.16). The project
scope was  generally appropriate  and in line with the Government's  strong
commitment to the development of the fisheries sector, and its emphasis on fish
exports to provide foreign exchange to finance imports of essential goods.
Timing of the Project was good in that it not only fitted well with GOM's plans
and policies, but also coincided with the take-over by STO of the nation-wide



-5-
responsibility for fish collection and export marketing. Because the exports of
traditionally processed fish products were in jeopardy, fish production in the
project area would have been drastically reduced to low levels without the
Project.
4.5       Project Organization and Hanagement:  As envisaged at appraisal, a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established within the STO, the executing
agency, was responsible for project implementation. General responsibility for
project coordination was vested in a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC). In
general the agencies involved in the project implementation performed
satisfactorily.   The PCC particularly played an effective role and provided
policy directives on project implementation.   It met regularly and closely
monitored the Project's progress. Project staff showed substantial initiative,
willingness and commitment. However, the available managerial resources were
under constant stress, and constrained by the lack of direct technical support
on matters related to technical designs, contract negotiations, procurement,
certifications of bills of payments, etc.   In retrospect,  it seems that a
provision for pre-project training of the project staff covering the above
aspects would have helped alleviate many of the difficulties encountered.
5. Project Implementation
5.1       As already noted (para 1.8), project implementation initially suffered
a setback due to the GOM's decision to take over an existing fish cannery and to
build a new tuna canning plant at the project site. Start-up of project works
was delayed by almost 18 months due to interruptions in design work in order to
integrate project facilities with existing and new cannery facilities. Contract
negotiations between STO and the consultants selected for detailed project design
took a long time due to additional tasks required from the consultants and the
consequent changes in their terms-of-reference. Further delays resulted from a
dispute between the consultant responsible for collection of soil survey
information for Felivaru site and the consultants engaged to prepare detailed
designs who wanted additional information to prepare the designs. There were
also a number of variations between planned and actual project implementation,
the major ones are discussed below.  Other changes are given in Section 4 of
Part III.
5.2       Refrigeration Complex.  The refrigeration complex was financed by the
Norwegian Government grant, and the contract was awarded in May 1986 to a firm
from Norway. Changes mostly related to power generation capacity, which required
rationalizing,  and integrating two systems into a common power house.   The
capacities of the generators were increased from three of 110 KVA to three of 240
KVA. In addition, STO financed three additional generators of 200 KVA each, as
additional capacity was required to cater to the expansion of the cannery.
Original proposal for a 25 MT block ice plant was changed to a 20 MT plate ice
plant, requiring fresh water, on the advise of the consulting engineers.  It
would have been more appropriate, and less costly if the original block ice plant
has been maintained. The plate ice plant is not used because it can only be
operated with fresh water. The blast freezing system installed is not really
required for raw material for the canning industry. Brine freezing technology
which has been used for many years on the Maldivian mother vessels, and which was
proposed at appraisal would have been more appropriate. There was also a cost
over-run at the time of contract signing from the original US$4.1 million to



-6-
US$5.6 million and accordingly the Norwegian Government grant was increased.
Actual construction, however, was completed in time (August 1987) without any
major problems. Minor flaws were satisfactorily resolved during the maintenance
period.
5.3       Infrastructure Facilities.   The contract  for construction of the
infrastructure facilities was awarded to a British firm in May 1986 for
completion by May 1987.   Variations from the original proposal included the
deletion of the housing complex, and a reduction in the scale of water, sewerage
and electricity supply facilities; these were already constructed under the new
cannery complex.   Despite the reduction in the scope of the infrastructure
component, there was a cost over-run which resulted from a price escalation which
occurred by the time the contract was signed, an increase in the size of the
slipway and to some extent, the underestimation of the cost at appraisal.
Execution of this contract took six months longer than the agreed completion due
to poor planning of procurement of construction material and site management,
understaffing of skilled labor by the contractor, and the delay in approving
working drawings by STO's consulting engineers.   Following completion of the
works in December 1987, the contractor submitted a claim for additional costs
attributing the increase to construction delays arising from late approval of
working drawings, late receipt of progress payments, cost of idle time for
machinery, equipment and personnel.   STO responded with a counter claim for
liquidated damages.    The matter was  settled eventually without going for
arbitration and the quality of the construction work is satisfactory.
5.4       Fuel Storage and Distribution Facilities.  The implementation of this
component ran into several problems. The scope of the fuel distribution system
envisaged at appraisal changed substantially in the wake of the conceptual
changes in the Project. Government also felt that the specifications of tank
size and tanker capacities proposed at appraisal were still too low for any
meaningful fuel distribution program, within the scope of the operations
envisaged at appraisal. As a result, the procurement of the proposed two 100 MT
(95,000 liters) tankers was dropped in favor of purchasing two second-hand
tankers, one of 2,000 MT and the second of 700 MT capacity, so as to enable STO
to supply oil also to the other areas in the country. As OPEC and IDA policies
did not permit financing of second-hand vessels, this purchase was financed by
GOM resources.   These tankers are currently used for fuel distribution to
existing storage tanks. The number and capacity of the island-based fuel storage
tanks were increased from 11 of 15,000 liters at appraisal to 20 of 48,000 liters
each.  Construction and assembly of these tanks were also delayed because of
GOM's decision to build the tanks locally instead of procuring them through ICB.
The local contractor was very slow and unable to deliver these tanks as agreed.
The 20 tanks have been constructed, and are being installed at the selected
sites. STO expects this work to be completed by mid-1992. Its plans are to
lease the tanks to the private sector. In the meantime the STO collector vessels
continue to supply the fishing vessels on a rationed basis.
5.5       Fishing vessels.  The implementation of the fishing vessels component
was also behind schedule due to the uncertainty about the type of vessels to be
procured for exploiting the medium- and long-range fishing grounds beyond the
reach of the traditional vessels.   The appraisal proposal to use the design
developed under the First Fisheries Project was rejected because of a number of
design deficiencies and poor performance of the test vessel. This component was



- 7 -
included at appraisal with a view to diversifying the harvesting sector,
maintaining security of supply of raw material for the project investments and
alleviating the demands on the collector system. Maintaining security of supply
based on an untested fleet of vessels had two major concerns: (a) the lack of
knowledge of harvestable tuna resources in the medium and long range fishing
grounds, and (b) the acceptability of vessel design by fishermen. IDA and GOM
subsequently reviewed various options which, inter alia, involved exploratory
fishing on the non-traditional fishing grounds by using vessels (locally
manufactured or imported) of different designs under improved management.
However, the actions agreed upon were deferred as STO felt that decisions based
on such exploratory fishing might be premature and not necessarily prudent. Its
concerns were that imported vessels may not be suitable for local conditions, and
that the data base available to design and construct a new suitable long-range
vessel  locally might  be  inadequate.    In  the meantime,  it happened  that
uninterrupted and increasing fish supplies to the cannery were being maintained
by the improved (motorized) dhonis and also the evidence was that fish landings
in the traditional areas were not resource restricted. STO therefore decided and
IDA agreed, to introduce instead the improved dhonis under the Project. A total
of 22 boats were constructed and delivered to fishermen during 1990 and 1991 and
a further 18 which have been completed are to be distributed to fishermen in the
current year. It is further proposed that an additional 35 boats be constructed
to be distributed during 1993/94  (see Annex 4).   The fundamental issue of
diversifying the harvesting sector by providing accessibility to non traditional
fishing grounds however, remains unaddressed.
5.6       Fish Collector and Service Vessels.  There was disagreement between
the consultant and GOM on the consultant's recommendations on award of contracts
for four collector  vessels  to be  funded by  the  Project.   As  a result,
considerable time was spent initially in streamlining the tender process. The
root of the problem was inadequate technical specifications, and the consultant's
unwillingness to respond positively to GOM's and IDA's suggestion to include in
the tender documents,  specific quantitative bid evaluation criteria.   Bids
finally received were rejected on the grounds that sharply increased fish catch
rates in the Project area required collector vessels of larger capacity and
better cooling efficiency as opposed to vessels of 5 MT and 10 MT capacities with
an ice-cooled sea water fish hold as proposed at appraisal. The bids for the
passenger vessel (55 ft length overall) were rejected because the prices quoted
were excessive, and, for the self-propelled barges, the load capacity (20 MT) was
found to be inadequate. Bids were called again with revised specifications (4
collector vessels of 25 MT capacity; 2 barges of 25 MT capacity; and 1 passenger
vessel of 35-40 ft). After the second round of bidding (1987) it was decided
that only four fish collector vessels from Colombo Dockyard would be purchased.
The purchases of barges and the passenger vessel were dropped as STO had a number
of such vessels in operation for inter atoll transportation. Some of these would
be deployed at Felivaru. IDA agreed to this change on the condition that project
performance would not be impaired, and should additional capacity be required in
the future, STO would take necessary action using its own funds. The collector
vessels were delivered on time, but had several design flaws in spite of major
inputs during design and construction stages.
5.7       Technical Assistance (TA) and Training.  The most noticeable change
which occurred in the planned TA was in the management assistance to STO to
develop and commence the refrigeration complex. The revised manning schedule



-8-
took into consideration the tuna cannery as part of the integrated operations.
Accordingly, changes were made in the manning schedule to include under IDA
financing a program manager, a quality control specialist and a computer
specialist in addition to the general manager and the accountant. The originally
proposed positions of the production manager and the maintenance engineer were
deleted from the management contract financed by IDA, and included under a
separate contract with STO. Under the management contract, the fuel distribution
manager was deleted with the intention of recruiting him locally.  The Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) allocated 120 staff-months of consultancies under the
management contract. This allocation was revised upwards to 162 staff-months in
December 1984 and then reduced to 100 staff-months in 1986. The actual staff-
months spent and the specializations used, however, are not recorded. In respect
of the training component, the most significant change was in foreign training.
The SAR provided for 36 staff-months of such training, but actual utilization was
about 157 staff-months.  The consultants' performance is assessed in paras 10.1
and 11.1.
5.8       Preparation  of  a  Follow-up  Project.    Although  IDA  discussed
preliminary ideas with GOM for a possible third fisheries project, consultants
to prepare such a project were never recruited. Instead, a feasibility study for
a second tuna cannery in the southern part of the country was undertaken by GOM
with assistance from the Kuwait Fund in 1988. The establishment of this cannery
has been delayed firstly due to the fact that the study was found to be weak and
inadequate, and secondly because of a lack of financing. Subsequently, using
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) resources, GOM, with the assistance of
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, prepared a detailed feasibility study for
a tuna freezing and export complex in the southern part of the country.  IDA
later appraised the project which has now been approved for financing in
conjunction with other donors.
5.9       To sum up, project implementation, albeit with initial delays, can be
deemed to have progressed satisfactorily considering the fact that the changes
in the original structure of the different components, arising largely from the
need to integrate the project actions with the STO's fish canning operations,
were inevitable. The disbursements under the IDA Credit and the IFAD Loan in SDR
terms were 98Z and 90Z respectively, and there is an undisbursed balance of
US$50,700 under the OPEC Loan.  However, due to the depreciation of the US$
against the SDR and of MRf against the US$, actual project costs are 118Z and
143Z of appraisal estimates in terms of US$ and MRf respectively (Part III/5).
6. Project Results
6.1       Overall,  the Project has been successful in achieving most of its
primary  objectives  as  envisaged  at  appraisal.    The  estimates  of  annual
incremental fish catch at 9,900 MT at the Project Closing and 11,300 MT (Section
6, Part III) at full development exceed the SAR estimate of 8,700 MT.   The
shortfall in average fishing days (at 172 as against 190 in a year as estimated
at appraisal) is more than offset by increased catch/day per vessel now estimated
at 356 kg as against 300 kg at appraisal.   The dhonis constructed under the
Project are in high demand because of their catching efficiency, and most of the
owners of these new vessels are fishermen who hire other fishermen to operate
their vessels. Also, a major deviation from the expectations at



-9-
appraisal is that instead of export as frozen fish, much of the incremental catch
is delivered to the STO's refrigeration complex/canning facility.
6.2       The refrigeration complex and the cannery have been in operation for
over four years and their production and revenue generation performance have been
impressive. The plant operates in two shifts with an average daily throughput of
around 55 tons. Fish purchased in 1991 totalled around 14,700 tons as compared
with 4,860 tons in 1987 considered as the without project situation. The buffer
cold storage has helped increasing fish collection and economizing on the cannery
operation. Canned tuna production increased from around 210,000 cases in 1987 to
634,800 cases in 1990 but dropped to 610,000 cases in 1991 mainly because of bad
sea conditions It is projected that at full development (1994) it will increase
to some 969,000 cases. Product quality has remained high and a very important
factor to note is that the canned tuna produced at Felivaru complex is labelled
as "Dolphin Friendly".
6.3       One of the main objectives of the project was to facilitate the fish
pricing system to become more effective in promoting increased production. Tuna
prices were revised by STO five times during the project period.  During this
period prices in nominal terms have been raised by 66? for large tuna and bO? for
small tuna. However, these were purely on an ad hoc basis and not related to
changing circumstances in production,  collection and marketing.   While the
measures taken had some positive impact in promoting increased production, a
regular review of tuna prices based on elaborate analysis and to determine
nationwide guidelines was not possible as the institutional ability to undertake
the analysis required for an effective pricing system was lacking. Under these
circumstances it would have been useful if technical assistance was provided
under the project to address this issue.
6.4       A cause for concern related to the above is the recent drop in the
deliveries of fresh tuna, either directly by fishermen or through collector
vessels, mainly due to the high prices paid by local private traders following
the liberalization of the dried fish trade, with another reason being bad sea
conditions which reduced the number of fishing days. These traders export dried
and smoked tuna to Sri Lanka from where demand for the product has re-emerged.
The shortfall in deliveries to the cannery is being met by STO by diverting catch
from its freezer vessels. This diverted catch is priced at the prevailing export
price for frozen tuna. At these prices for raw material from its own freezer
vessels, STO's canning operations would not be profitable. Clearly there is the
need for an urgent review of prices paid for fresh tuna by STO to the operators
of fishing vessels, since one of the objectives of the Project is to maintain an
effective fish pricing system in order to promote increased production. Also,
GOM should simultaneously take steps to promote exports of frozen tuna as
envisaged under the follow-up IDA Third Fisheries Project (para 5.7).
6.5       It is difficult at this stage to evaluate the impact of the Project's
fuel distribution system component which is still not operational.   It is
important to note, however, that the fuel distribution system in the Maldives has
improved tremendously in recent years due to private sector intervention, without
any direct support from the Project. Because of the increasing demand for fuel
in the islands, a number of private traders have taken up to fuel imports and
distribution.



- 10 _
6.6       A number of STO/FPID (Fisheries Project Implementation Department)
staff have received training abroad mostly on business management, accounting and
human resource development. Some of these trainees have returned and are working
in the FPID, the rest are expected to return during the course of this year. The
training has been rewarding and the FPID is now better prepared to implement its
work program.
6.7       Beneficiaries.  During the period 1985-1990 the number of mechanized
fishing vessels, engaged in fishing in the project area, increased substantially,
giving over 3,700 fishermen the opportunity to increase their incomes, because
of improved access  to markets,  increased catches and higher prices.   This
includes around 320 fishermen operating on boats financed out of the project.
A further 280 fishermen would benefit from the 35 mechanized boats to be
introduced during the next two years. The annual income of the fishermen working
on the mechanized vessels is estimated at around Rf5,050 per fisherman, an
increase of around 70Z over that estimated at appraisal. A large number of non-
mechanized and small vessels operating in the project area, would also have
benefitted largely due to better access to fresh fish marketing channels, but it
is difficult to quantify, as data in respect of these boats are not available.
The Felivaru complex has provided employment to about 940 people, though most of
the workers in the cannery are expatriates. The project also created employment
to around 30 carpenters and assistants at the Alifushi boat building yard. A
further 40-60 people would be engaged, once all 20 fuel oil pumps and tanks are
installed  in  the  islands.    The  project  also  succeeded  in  building  an
institutional capability, for administration of fisheries development project,
through its establishment of a project implementation unit within the STO.
6.8       Financial and Economic Returns.  The financial analysis carried out
at appraisal included the estimated Financial Rates of Return (FRR) for the
second generation vessels, the fish collection and freezing complex and the fuel
distribution system. These were estimated at 26Z, 122 and 18% respectively. In
view of the changes that occurred during project implementation (see para 4.2),
the only meaningful comparison that can be made between SAR and Project
Completion Report (PCR) FRR estimates would be with regard to second generation
vessels, for which the reestimated FRR is 23.4Z (Annex 7).  Although slightly
lower than that estimated at appraisal, this is still considered satisfactory and
demonstrates why the demand for new fishing vessels in Maldives has remained
high. Return to labor for crew members operating on these vessels is estimated
at MRf5,160 per year or MRf3O per fishing day, which competes favorably with
current wage rates in the Maldives. During the period 1985-1990 the number of
registered mechanized dhoni engaged in fishing increased by about 172 (Annex 1).
6.9       The reestimation of the FRR relative to the refrigeration complex can,
in the changed context, be regarded as a hypothetical exercise. At appraisal, it
was envisaged that the refrigeration complex would function separately from the
existing cannery at Felivaru, with the incremental catch under the Project being
exported as frozen fish. However, it was subsequently decided to integrate the
refrigeration complex with the canning factory and 90% of the fish purchases are
now being locally processed into canned tuna for export (Annex 5). Based on the
original assumption that the refrigeration complex would operate independently,
the reestimated FRR for this component works out to 16.8Z (Annex 13) as compared
to the appraisal estimate of 12Z. With regard to the fuel distribution system,



(not yet operational) the mission was not in a position to reestimate the
relative FRR due to a lack of data.
6.10      The SAR estimated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the Project
as a whole at 27Z. The ERR is reestimated at project completion to be 14.4X
(Annex 14) taking into account the overall operation of the Felivaru complex,
including the cannery, but excluding the impact of the fuel storage and
distribution facilities. The main assumptions made for reestimating the project
ERR are given in Part III/6. On the hypothesis that the Felivaru complex would
have operated as a refrigeration complex only, and therefore selling frozen fish
for export, the project would have generated an ERR of 16.9X (Annex 15).
7. Project Sustainability
7.1       The Project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits
throughout its economic life. It needs to maintain remunerative prices for fresh
tuna to vessel operators in order to ensure adequate supply of raw material of
good quality.  Production costs of Felivaru complex are, however, still very
high; the main reason being the high number of staff employed, which could place
the future competitiveness of the Felivaru complex as canned tuna exporter in
jeopardy. STO is aware of the situation and a policy towards the reduction of
staff numbers is under implementation and likely to continue in the future.
Already, the total number of staff has been reduced from 1,200 in 1990 to 943 at
present. STO is also investigating the possibility of reducing freight costs
through the use of containers to be loaded at Felivaru complex instead of
shipping canned tuna in boxes to Singapore, where it is containerized for
shipment. Other cost cutting measures are also being reviewed by STO management.
7.2       As far as the fuel distribution system is concerned, STO intends to
sell or to lease out the infrastructure constructed under the Project (fuel
tanks) to the private sector (para 5.3). The fuel distribution system in the
Maldives has tremendously improved in recent years due to private sector
intervention and this trend is likely to continue in the future because of the
high demand for fuel in the islands. Distribution of second generation vessels
through credit is being carried out successfully. Demand for new fishing vessels
remains high and so far the Loan recovery record of 992 has been very good.
7.3       Prices paid by FPID are a critical determinant of fishermen's income
especially in the outer islands where no significant markets exist. The proposed
establishment of the Economic Planning and Coordination Section within the MOF,
under the Third Fisheries Project (para 1.18), to review the fish prices and make
recommendations to a Presidential Committee, should ensure fair returns to
fishermen.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       Despite the initial problems, Bank assistance under the Project has
resulted in the development of essential infrastructure and manpower to support
the Maldive's fisheries sector. The Bank's performance throughout the project
cycle was generally satisfactory. Supervision missions were regular and the Bank
maintained as much staff continuity as possible during the 10 supervision
missions which took place between 1983 and 1989.  However, given the complex
engineering design and contract negotiation problems encountered during the early



- 12 -
stages of project implementation, staffing of supervision missions during that
period with necessary technical and fisheries operations expertise could have
helped STO avoid ensuing delays.
8.2       The Bank's expectation that the design of the long-range fishing
vessel developed under the first project would prove suitable to exploit distant
fishing grounds beyond the reach of traditional vessels was optimistic. Firstly,
there was no adequate knowledge of the fish resources outside the traditional
fishing areas, and secondly, fishing trials in the off-shore areas, using these
boats to demonstrate to fishermen their technical and economic viability had not
been carried out, as there was uncertainty and differences of opinion on
conducting these trials.   In retrospect,  it would have been better if the
viability of these long range boats was demonstrated over a longer period under
this Project, and action taken simultaneously to develop the knowledge of off-
shore tuna resources and their migratory habits.
8.3       Overall during project implementation Bank staff maintained close
liaison with GOM in developing important sector strategies and policies which
eventually led to deregulation of exports of traditionally processed products;
fish and fuel price reviews; and progress towards future private sector
involvement in fish collection and export.   The Bank's leadership role in
mobilizing other co-financiers for the Project was highly appreciated by GOM.
8.4       The main lessons learned from the Project are:
(a)  Technical:  Fisheries development projects with simple and flexible
project design, which involve proven technology, and which are based
on known resource potential within the reach of traditional fishermen,
have better chances of success. However, any measures to diversify
the fish harvesting sector through promotion of fishing in new grounds
should be preceded by a study to strengthen the knowledge of fish
resources of the new areas as well as adequate trials to demonstrate
to the fishermen the technical and economic viability of vessel design
recommended for undertaking fishing in the new areas.
(b)  Institutional and Management:   For projects involving significant
procurement and preparation of detailed designs, tender documents,
negotiations and award of contracts for facilities to be installed,
it is important to ensure that the Project's executing agency,
especially if it is like STO which was new to such work, is given the
necessary technical support and its project implementation unit has
the needed technical staff with initial training in the above aspects
to ensure smooth project implementation. Where technical assistance
is crucial to project implementation, special care should be taken to
hire consultants of needed qualifications and experience; otherwise
their poor performance could lead to more problems (as encountered by
STO under the management consultancy contract (para 11.1)), the
outcome of which was important to STO's fisheries operations.   The
quality of the consultants supplied under this contract was poor, and
the firm's experience to provide the required support to STO,
questionable, reflecting the poor selection.



- 13 -
(c) Appropriate Technology: The FRR for the refrigeration complex, had
it operated independently of the existing cannery at Felivaru, is
reestimated at 16.8Z as against the SAR estimate of 12Z (para 6.8).
Further, the Project would have generated an ERR 16.9Z if the
operations at Felivaru were to be confined to freezing of tuna for
exports. This is higher than the reestimated ERR for the Project at
14.4Z taking into account the overall operations of the Felivaru
complex, including the cannery (para 6.9).  Also, as already;noted
(para 1.22), STO's canning operations would not be profitable if the
tuna deliveries to the cannery were to be priced at the prevailing
export  prices   for  frozen  tuna.        Clearly,   therefore,   the
financial/economic lesson in the context of the present situation in
Maldives is that tuna freezing for exports is more remunerative than
canning of tuna which can only be marginally profitable.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       Overall performance of the PIU/STO and the supporting agencies was
good. Despite staff limitations, and rapidly expanding responsibilities and work
load, the PIU managed the Project with sufficient efficiency. Being the first
Bank-funded operation executed by STO, PIUISTO staff were initially not familiar
with the Bank procedures in the recruitment of consultants, contract
negotiations, clearing of tenders or other related subjects. Problems arising
out of these were eventually overcome because of staff dedication to project
implementation. Adequate counterpart funds were made available by the Borrower
for the Project. Progress reporting was regular and the quality of reporting has
been good. The Borrower established a Project Coordinating Committee as agreed
during negotiations, which regularly monitored the Project's progress, and also
adopted all the agreed covenants (Part III/7). The main lessons of experience
for the Borrower are more or less the same as for the Bank (para 8.3).
10. Project Relationship
10.1      Through its long association with the Maldives fisheries, the Bank
developed a good relationship with the key institutions involved in the sector,
the MOF, STO, and the private companies that were involved in collection and
export of fish. The reasonable continuity of Bank staff involved with project
supervision, strengthened the Bank's and Borrower's relationship still further.
This led to a continuous dialogue on the future of the sector, jointly addressing
emerging policy and institutional questions. Bank staff prepared a Fisheries
Sector Strategy paper, the recommendations of which were accepted by GOM.
Following these recommendations GOM has restructured the STO and established FPID
as an independent unit with financial and accounting responsibilities. Joint
discussions still continue between the Borrower and the Bank on many other
strategic aspects of the sector, foremost among them are the future roles of the
public and private sectors, and fish and fuel price policy. These discussions
have led to the financing of a Third Fisheries Project (para 5.7), under which
further restructuring of FPID to improve its business operations is being
explored. The Bank's and GOM's relationships with co-financiers have also been
satisfactory.



- 14 -
11. Consultancy Services
11.1      Implementation of the Project was to be greatly assisted by the
employment of consultant services under three main contracts. These included
assistance for engineering designs, construction supervision and management. As
noted earlier (para 1.11), on the design consultancy there were initial problems,
mainly because of the changes in the designs and the scope of the work resulting
from the need to integrate the tuna cannery with the refrigeration and
infrastructure facilities to be provided under the Project. The agreement on
these changes, and contract re-negotiations arising from it, took much time
leading to disputes between GOM and the consultants, which were eventually
resolved.   Otherwise,  the design consultants  as well  as the construction
supervision consultants performed well.
11.2      The performance under the management consultancy contract was not
satisfactory. The initial contract concluded as early as in mid-1984 for STO to
obtain the services of a management contractor to manage fish collection,
freezing, storage, fuel distribution, accounting and training activities under
the Project was considered by the Bank as inappropriate following the decision
of the GOM to assign to the STO the responsibility for all fish collection,
freezing, canning and dried fish operations throughout the Maldives.
Consequently, a new management organization and development plan for STO
operations was developed and a new management consultancy contract was re-
negotiated in December 1986 with a revised terms-of-reference and staffing
schedule to fit within the available funds. The selected firm's experience and
the organization capability to carry out various tasks were inadequate and its
performance did not meet with STO's expectations. This was further substantiated
by the mission's inability to obtain adequate information and data relevant to
its work.
12. Projject Documentation and Data
12.1      The SAR, and the Credit and the Project Agreements were detailed
enough to provide a basic framework for the Bank and GOM for implementation of
the Project based on its original concept of tuna freezing for export.   The
documentation on the technical and economic analysis which was supposed to have
been carried out later as a result of change in the Project's concept, was not
available to PCR mission. The PIU, however, had maintained records well enough
to assist the preparation of the PCR. Supervision reports and other relevant
project documents available at the Bank and PIU/STO also contained good
information. Records and data of the Felivaru freezing complex and cannery were
also well maintained to permit a review of expenditure and revenue at the various
production centers.



- 15 -
Project Completion Report
HALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(CR. 1320 HAL)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introduction
1.1       This  is a Project Completion Report  on the  IDA/Maldives  Second
Fisheries Project prepared by the staff of the Fisheries Projects Implementation
Department (FPID). It contains an assessment of the overall development impact
of the Project on the country's economy as well as observations and commentaries
on the Project's design and mode of implementation. In the preparation of this
report, views of some key personnel who were directly involved in the
implementation of the Project, and those who have been with the Project from its
inception to actual operations were solicited. While some views and commentaries
came in the nature of Wafter thoughts", they nonetheless reflect the concerns of
FPID which may be carried over as a basis for future executive decisions
concerning implementation of other development projects in the country.   To
paraphrase a noted economist, development projects are always flawed but in the
aftermath, these flaws become beneficial.
2. The Project's Performance
2.1       Generally, the IDA/Maldives Second Fisheries Project has lived up to
the expectations of the economic planners of the country.   While the main
objective of the Project was to assist the Government of Maldives (GOM) expand
its fisheries sector by making available the necessary infrastructure that are
designed to spur productivity among the artesanal fishermen, it also made
possible the creation of growth centers in the project area and the surrounding
atolls which are part of the sphere of influence of the Project. In more ways
than one, it contributed greatly to stem the rapid emigration of people from this
area to the already congested capital island of Male. The resultant increase in
fishing activities in the project area, as evidenced by the increase in catches
which went up from 26,300 mt in 1987 to 31,400 mt in 1991, and the employment
opportunities opened to local residents whose ranks at the Felivaru Tuna
Processing Plant swelled from 564 in 1987 to 707 in 1991 -- all these have
substantially fulfilled GOM's aim in equitably distributing the benefits of
economic development to the rural areas.
2.2       All these non-quantifiable benefits from the Project are equally
crucial in enabling the country to sustain its robust economic growth of the past
decade through the 1990s and beyond.



- 16 -
3. The Project
3.1       The Project was accomplished at a cost of about US15.0 million,
approximately 18X more than the proposed amount.   The figure appears low by
today's standards, but then, Maldives' economy was much smaller in the early
1980s.
3.2       The Project was originally conceived to be a 'stand-alone, land-based
freezing and cold storage complex in the northern part of the country to
complement the Maldive Fishwealth Exploitation Project in the south. However,
GOM, pursuing its strategy of diversification of the tuna export mix to increase
outputs and stabilize incomes, decided to integrate the refrigeration complex
with the then-to-be-upgraded tuna cannery at Felivaru. Ever since GOM adopted
this plan to shift to the development of value-added products such as canned tuna
as an integral part of its overall development plan, a debate has raged among the
policy makers of the country and the World Bank on whether this was the right
step. The arguments continue to focus on whether it is more profitable to can
tuna or sell it simply as fresh, frozen and whole.
3.3       Even today this question is not fully answered.  There are many people
who believe that the plan is premature, and that Maldives will be better off as
a supplier of raw materials for canning rather than can tuna themselves. At the
same time, many argue that Maldives' huge tuna stock resources would allow the
country to be both a supplier of raw materials and a supplier of quality canned
tuna. While we debate the merits of canning tuna in the Maldives as an option
to reduce export volatility through 'efficient diversification', foreign
investors were (and are) rushing to tuna-rich countries like Indonesia, the
Philippines, Seychelles, Micronesia and Vanuatu, competing intensely to put up
tuna canning plants.
4. The Project Design and Implementation
4.1       Increased costs and disrupted schedules have fuelled complaints on the
choice of consultants charged with the implementation of the Project. One of the
reasons cited for too many delays was the poor coordination between the design
consultants and the construction firm.   This gave rise to second thoughts
regarding the wisdom of involving too many consultants of varying persuasions
which tend to result in some confusion and loss of command responsibility.
4.2       Meanwhile, certain flaws in project design have been noted, though
these did not seriously hamper operations. One such flaw is said to be found in
the evaporators of the compressor system of the refrigeration complex which tend
to "short cycle" and while allegedly results in excessive wear and tear on the
electrical components. Another is the defrosting system which is claimed to be
ineffective resulting in longer defrosting period and consequently, more man-
hours. The drainage system, or the lack of it, in the freezing and cold storage
rooms has, likewise, became an area of concern.
4.3       Another criticism levelled at the Project is about the collector vessel
whose hatch openings were found to be too small and affects loading and
unloading.   Factory defects on the chilling system were found when its tubes



- 17 -
began leaking soon after its launching for commercial operations. This resulted
in additional expense for re-tubing and substantial delays in operation.
4.4       Some question the wisdom of providing for a cold storage with a
capacity of only 750 tons and which have been found to be inadequate. Because
of the containerized method of storing frozen fish, actual utilization accounts
for only 75? of capacity. It would appear that projected increase in catches in
the area with the Project in place was underestimated or the method of storage
was not taken into consideration.
5. Management Consultancy
5.1       Due to rapid changes that were taking place in the industry, and the
delays encountered in the project implementation, the management contract which
concluded as early as 1984 was inappropriate. A new agreement was renegotiated
in December 1986, with new terms of reference and new staffing. Observers are
not sure whether the chosen consulting firm was the right choice.
5.2       The training program to train technicians, which was conducted with the
assistance of the Vocational Training Centre, was run satisfactorily. Under the
renegotiated contract, an accounting system was also installed in FPID, which was
useful and is being used to date.
5.3       However, all other aspects of the contract were not successful, most
probably due to the fact that the same consultants had a separate contract,
running concurrently, to improve and streamline the operations of the cannery.
It seemed that the consultants took more of an interest in this part of the
operations. It would seem that the consultants did not perform very well under
the second contract as well.
6. Overall View
6.1       Despite delays in completion of the Project, and some reservations
mentioned above, the IDA/Maldives Second Fisheries Project is a success. it can
be considered as one of the first comprehensive approaches made by GOM in
improving Maldives' fishery infrastructure. It symbolizes GOM's commitment to
rationalize the exploitation of the country's only natural resource of
importance.
6.2       With much of the attention concentrated on the Project's viability now
that it is linked to canning operations, its wider objectives tend to have been
neglected. Many view the Project as a means of achieving GOM's long-term
objective of economic development through export diversification. The Maldives
Second Fisheries Project is more than an infrastructure-building project; it
represents the aspirations of the nation to become an important supplier of
quality fishery products in South Asia.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit ritle             Purpose                                     Year of    Status                Comments
Approval
Maldives Fisheries Project    Provision 500 marine diesel engines for     June 1979   Closed in March      PCRIPPAR 5-4-
(Credit 907 - MAL)            mechanistion of fishing vessls,                         1983                 1985
establishment of 5 maintenance and repair
centres; provision of 33 navigation lights
and 40 buoys.
Maldives Third Fisheries      Construction of a fishing port, a freezing  7 January   Under                Scheduled for
Project                       and cold storge complex and support           1992      implementation,      completion in six
facilities and equipment; provision of a               Preparmtion of       years.
fleet of collector vessels, technical                  designs
assistance, strengthening of the FPID,
fisheries research, environmental planning
and studies for increased private sector
participation.



- 19-
2. Project Timetable
Item                                          Date Plamed                 Date Revised                  Date Actual
Identification"                                   NA                           NA                         July 1980
Preparetion                                       NA                           NA                         Sept 1981
Appraisaf"                                        NA                           NA                     March/April 1982
Negotiations                                  29 Nov 1982                      NA                       29 Nov 1982
Board Approval                                25 Jan 1983                                                25 Jan 1983
Loan Signature MDAIFAD                        18 Feb 1983                                                18 Feb 1983
Loan Signature OPEC                           15 Apr 1983                                               25 May 1983
Grant (Norwegian)                                                                                       25 May 1983
Loan Effectivensu                             19 May 1983                  15 July 1983                 30 Aug 1983
Loan Completion                               30 June 1989                 30 June 1990                 31 Dec 1990
Loan Closing                                  31 Dec 1989                  31 Dec 1990                  30 June 1991
u The project was identified during the supervision of the First Fisheries Project.
Decision Memorandum meeting 18 May 1982.
Comments
sues raised at appraisl (decision meeting) are as follows:
OI)             Future World Market Prices for Tuna: At the timne of appraisal, the world market prices for tuna were very low, and the
Issues was whether 3DA should postpone the final decision on the project until the prospects for better tuna prices have
significantly improved. The mission's rncommendationthat the project should not be postponed, as it was expected that tuna
prices would improve, and the project would develop new market, was accepted.
0ii)            Fish Pricing Policy: The issue was whether the GOM should allow STO to pay prices it considered appropriate directly to
fishermen or adjustd periodically In line with prices STO receive from fisk export. The mission recommendation that GOM
be required to permit STO to pay prices that would in the judgement of STO optimise itu operations was accepted.
Ciii)           Retroactive Financing: The issue was whether the technical assistance to finalise detailed designs be financed retroactively.
The rmission's recommendation to finsnce consulting services up to a maximum of US$250,000 was accepted.



- 20 -
3. Credit Disbursement
Cumulative       1982/83   1983184   1984/85   1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   1988U89   1989/90   1990191   1991/92
Estimated and
Actual
Disbrsemnent
(IDA)
.................................. (US$'000) .
Appraisl          300       1,300    3,100    4,100    4,600     4,900     5,000    5,000     5,000    5,000
Estimate
Actual             0       238.5    873.9   1,487.8  2,748.0  4,130.3  4,686.5   5,500.1   5,741.8   5,747.11"
Actual as % of     0        18.3      28.2     36.3     59.7      84.3     93.7      110.0    114.8    114.9"
Estimate
Date of Final                                            28 August 1991
Disbursement
' n terns of SDR, the total disbursements constituted 98% of the Credit amount of SDR4.8 million.



- 21 -
4. Project Implementation
A. Physical Achievement
Unit     Appraisal   Revised    Actual       Actual as % of
Estimate    Target                Appraisal Estimate
Collector Vessels and Barges
Collector Vessels (A)             No        2x5 MT    2x25 MT   2x25 MT              100
Collector Vessels (B)             No       2xlO MT   2x25 MT   2x25 MT               100
Barges"                           No       2x20 MT    lx15 MT         -        Supplied by STO
lx25 MT
Transport Vessel"                 No        lx55 ft   1x3540 ft       -        Supplied by STO
Refrigeration Complex
Block Ice Plant'                ton/day       25          -    20 (plate ice)        100
Ice Storage                       ton        150           -         150             100
Holding tanks                     ton         35           -         35              100
Brine Freezer'                  ton/day       40           -      40 (blast)         100
Cold Storage                      ton        750                    750             100
Generator'                        No       3xllO kva       -      3x240 kva        > 100
3x200 kva
Containers for Fish               No          NA           -       1,600
Water Treatment                 ton/day       10           -         100           > 100
Water Storage                     ton        500           -         500             100
Rain Water Storage                ton       4,700          -       4,700             100
Fork Lift                         No          NA                       3
Tractors                          No          NA                       2
Main Building                     No           1                       1             100
Stand by Generator                No        1x35 kva              lx180 kva          100
Civil Works - Ref. Complex          Unit         1                      1              100
Other Civil Works
Jetty'                             M        lx500 M        -      lx500 M   Jetty head only- 100
Barge Load out                                 1           -          1              100
Roads (internal)                              NA          -          NA
Slipway                           No       lxlO0 MT               lxlO0 MT           100
Workshop                          No           1                      1              100
Housese                            No         14                     14       Financed by STO
100
Dormitories'                      No           1           -          4       Financed by STO
400
Guest House'                      No           1                      1       Financed by STO
100
Oil Storage & Distribution
Small Tanks                       No      11xl5,0001      30     20x48,000 1         180
Large Storage Tanks               No        2x800 T               2x1,200 T          100
Tankers for Oil Transport"'       No        2xlOO T    2x500 T    lx2,000T    Financed by STO
lx700 T    Cap. increased by
1,300%
Foundations for small Tanks       No          11          30         20              180
Foundations for large Tanks       No           2                      2              100
FLshing Vessels
Second Generation Vessels         No          10          40         75             750



- 22 -
Unit     Appraisal   Revised    Actual       Actual as % of
Estimate    Target               Appraisal Estimate
Long Range Vessels'               No          10
Training & Technical Assistance
Local Training                    No         NA                     76
Foreign Training                 MM           36                    157            435
Management Contract"             MM          120       16V100      125.3            104
Preparation Follow-up Project"w  MM           12          -          ,               0
Detailed Designs/Construction    MM           42          -        124.6           297
Supervision
Fuel Distribution Sp.            MM           18          -          -               0
Training Expert                  MM           12          -          12             100
" Deleted from project and financed by STO.
a A plate ice plant procured instead of block ice.
3 Blast freezer installed instead of brine freezer.
4' STO financed 3 additional generators.
" Only jetty head constructed under the project.
4' Deleted from project and financed by STO.
" STO purchased 2 second hand tankers - Deleted from project financing.
" Only second generation boats were financed.
9 The target was first revised to 162, then to 100.
' Not carried out under the project.



- 23 -
B. Construction Schedule
Item                          Original (SAR)       Revised (7/85)        Actual
Infrastructure Works
Bid Opening                                      April 30, 1985        1986
Contract Award             Sept. 30, 1983        Nov. 30, 1985        May 1986
Start Construction         Jan.  1, 1984         March 1, 1986        July 1986
Completion"                June 30, 1986         Oct. 31, 1987        Dec. 1987
Refrigeration Complex
Bid Opening                                      April 24, 1985
Contract Award             March 31, 1983        Nov. 30, 1985        May 1986
Start Construction         Oct.  1, 1983         March 1, 1986        July 1986
Completion2e                Dec. 31, 1985        June 30, 1987        July 1987
Service Vessels
Draft Revised Tender Docs.     -                 Sept. 1, 1985
Invitation to Bid                                Oct. 31, 1985
Bid Opening                                      Jan. 6, 1986         June 1986
Contract Award             Sept. 30, 1983        March 15, 1986       March 1987
Start Construction         April 1, 1984         July  1, 1986
Completion                 June 30, 1985         April 30, 1987        1988
" Maintenance period ended in November 1988.
2 Maintenance period ended in November 1988.



- 24 -
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
SAR                        Actual            Actual as % of
SAR
(MPf million) (US$ million) (MRf million) (USS million)  (NM     (US$)
Collector Vessels           11.4           1.6          15.4           1.7         135     106
Refrigeration Complex       29.0           4.1          49.5           6.1         171     149
Infrastructure              13.8           2.0          21.5           2.4         156     120
Oil Storage & Distribution   8.6           1.3           3.1           0.4         36      31
Fishing Vessels              3.4           0.5           9.9           1.1        291      220
Technical Assistance/       22.3           3.1          26.8           3.2         120     103
Training
Total                    88.5          12.6         126.2          14.9        143     118
Remarks: Actual overal project cost in US$ was about 18 % higher than that estimated at appraisal. This increase
was mainly due to cost escalation of the refrigeration complex and to the procurement of an extra 55 fishing vessels
over the 20 as foreseen at appraisal.
Source: FPID.
B. Project Financing
Planned                            Actual
IDA IFAD  OPEC  NG  Total   IDA  WAD  OPEC   NG   Total
................... (US$ million) .
A. External Sources
Collector Vessels    -   1.6      -     -   1.6       -    1.93     -      -    1.93
Refrigeration        -    -       -    4.1  4.1       -      -      -    5.6   5.60
Complex
Infrastructure      1.9    -      -     -   1.9      2.31    -      -      -    2.31
Oil Storage &        -    -    0.9    -   0.9         -      -    0.85    -    0.85
Distribution
Fishing Vessels      -   0.4      -     -   0.4       -    0.35     -      -    0.35
Technical           3.1    -      -     -   3.1      3.44    -      -      -    3.44
Assitance/Training
Sub-Total         5.0  2.0   0.9   4.1  12.0    5.75   2.28   0.85   5.6  14.48
B. Government        -    -       -     -   0.6       -      -      -      -    0.42
Total             5.0  2.0   0.9   4.1  12.6    5.75   2.28   0.85   5.6  14.90
Remarks: Financing was on the basis of US$5 nmillion (SDR4.8 million) from IDA, US$2 million (SDR1.9
million) from IFAD, US$0.9 million from OPEC, US$4.1 million grant fund from Norway, and US$0.6 million
from GOM. The Norwegian grant of US$4.1 million was to finance the refrigeration complex and this grant
amount was at the time of actual contract award increased to AUS$5.6 million to cover the cost escalation of the
refrigerated complex, thus increasing the total project cost to US$14.9 million. The project was extended twice
beyond the original closing date of 31 December 1989, first to 31 December 1990 and finally to 30 June 1991. This
was done mainly to cover costs of purchasing construction material for the boat building programme, oil tanks, and
training requirements. By the final closing date of 30 June 1991 the IDA project disbursement reached SDR4.7
million or 98% of the estimated amount; IFAD disbursement amounted to SDR1.7 million or 90% and OPEC
disbursement to US$0.85 million or 94%. The undisbursed amount of SDR182,000 from IFAD and US$50,700
from OPEC are likely to be used to procure materials for construction of additional fishing boats.



- 25 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimates   Estimated Closing    Estimate at Full
Date             Development
Incremental Catch (tons)              8,700                9,900               11,300
Disposal of Increm. Catch (tons)
- Export Frozen Fish                7,100                n.a.                  400
- Export Dried                      1,300                1,450                 n.a.
- Locally Sold Frozen"                300                8,000                1,600
- Export Canned Tuna                n.a.                   -                  9,300
Foreing Exchange Earning               3.9                  15.0                 17.0
(US$ million)
Beneficiaries                         8,000                 n.a.                 n.a.
Employment Opportunities'             1,500                1,300                1,900
Production Parameters
Second Generation Vessels
Fishign Days                    190                 172                  172
Catch/Day (kg)                 300                 356                   356
l' Including rejects and inventory (Annex 1 - Table 5).
F Fishing fleet.
B. Economic Impact
SAR Estimate                     Actual
Economic Rate of Return
Project Overall                                   27%                         14.4%"
Project Overall (Export of Frozen Fish)           27%                         16.9%
" For details see Annex 1, Table 14 - Based on current operations (cannery and refrigeration complex).
Remarks: The economic benefits of the project comprise the value of the incremental production of canned tuna,
of fish meal as a by-product and a small quantity of frozen fish (Annex 1, Table 6) for which relative 1991 FOB
export prices (Annex 1, Table 8) have been used. The value of incremental services provided to the tourism and
transportation sectors, which was included in the economic analysis carried out at appraisal on the assumption that
these would result from implementation of the fuel storage and distribution facilities component, has not been
considered. As indicated above, this component is not yet operational and because of lack of data, the mission has
not attempted to estimate its possible project impact. It is also important to note that the fuel distribution system
in the Maldives has tremendously improved in recent years due to private sector intervention, without any diret
support from the project. The economic costs of the project include all investment costs of project civil works, the
refrigeration complex, collector and fishing vessels, and techncial assistance. For the reasons mentioned in para
3 (a), the cost of the fuel distribution facilities (fuel tanks) has not been considered. However, in view of the fact
that the economic analysis has been carried out for the Felivaru complex as a whole, the value of the existing
infrastructure, estimated at MRf60.4 million (1991 prices), has been included in the cost stream. Assumption for
estimating the ERR of the Felivaru Complex as 'freezing complex' are given in Annex 1, Table 15.



- 26 -
C. Financial Impact
SAR Estimates                   Actual"
Financial Rates of Return
Fish Collection and Freezing                 12%                          16.8%
Fuel Distribution                            18%                          n.a.
Fishing Vessels                              26%                         23.4%
" For details see Annex 1, Tables 7 and 13.
7. Status of Major Covenants
Section No.       Covenant                  Original      Revised Date Status
Deadline
Project Agreement
2.02              Establishment of Fish     31.5.83       31.3.89      Fully complied with.
Marketing and Fuel
Distribution Division in STO
2.04              Preparation of plan to transfer Not specified  31.3.88  In compliance. Boats
owership of STO fishing                             sold on credit.
vessel to private operations.
2.07              STO to employ consultants   Not specified           Fully complied with.
for project implementation
2.08              Procurement to be carried out Not specified          Fully complied with.
in accordance with schedule
of 4 of DCA
2.09              Goods and services financed    -             -      Fully complied with.
out of project to be used
exclusively for project
purposes.
2.10 A            STO to furnish IDA with   Not specified             Fully complied with.
plans specifications/Reports/
contracts.
3.03 A+B          STO to insure against risks to Not specified        Fully complied with.
plant and machinery
4.01 A+B          STO to maintain adequate    Not specified           Fully complied with.
records and accounts of
project activities
4.02 A            STO to have its accounts      -                     Fully complied with.
audited.
4.02 B            Submit audited financial  Six months                Fully complied with.
statements.               after each fiscal
year



- 27 -
Section No.       Covenant                  Original      Revised Date Status
Deadline
Development Credit
Agreement
4.01 B/6.01 F     Borrower to make available  Not specified  Dec. 1986    Fully complied with.
US$1.6 m as loan and 1.3 m
as equity under subsidiary
loan to STO
4.02              Borrower to establish and    Not specified          Fully complied with.
maintain PCC
4.03              Borrower to prepare criteria  Not specified         Fully complied with.
for fuel pricing and
implementation
6.01 (A to E)     Conditions effectiveness for  Not specified         Fully complied with.
IFAD and OPEC Loan,
Norwegian Grant, Subsidiary
Loan Agreement



- 28 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                             Planned                  Revised                   Actual
Through Appraisal                                     NA                      NA                       46
Appraisal through Board Approval                      NA                       NA                      NA
Board Approval through Effectiveness                  NA                       NA                      NA
Supervision                                           NA                       NA                      261/
" Man weeks in field only.
B. Missions
Stage of          Month/Year   Mo. of   Days in  Specialisation    Perforwunc  Type of Problem
Project Cycle                   Persons  Field    Represented'         e Ratings'
Identification"  July 1980    NA         NA        NA                 -
Preparation       Jan 1982      5         20       FS, E, RE, M, FD  -              -
Appraisal         May 1982      3         21       FS, RE, CE          -
Supervision 1    March/April  3           7        FS, RE, NA          1            -
1983
Supervision 2    Nov 1983       2         4        FS, CE              2           Long delay in (M&T)
contract negotiations.
Supervision 3    March 1985   1           10       AE                  2           Design issues and
Disagreement with
consultant (T).
Supervision 4    June/July    3           10       AE, FS, NA         3            Change in project concept.
1985                                                             Need to change designs
M.&T).
Supervision 5    June 1986    1           10       ACE                 2           Problems with fuel
distribution component
(M).
Supervision 6    Nov/Dec        2         16       ACE, NA             2           Problem with fishing boat
1986                                                          ' design (T).
Supervision 7    August 1987  3           10       ACE, E, NA         2            Construction delays (T).
Supervision 8    March 1988   4           10       ACE, FS, CS, NA   1              -
Supervision 9    March/April  1           7        ACE                 1
1989
Supervision 10   Oct 1989       1         5        FS                  1
"  Project was identified during the supervision of Fisheries 1.
21 Type of specialisation:  FS - Fisheries Specialist, E a Engineer, RE * Refrigeration Engineer, M
Marketing, NA = Naval Architect, FD = Fuel Distribution Expert, CE   Civil Engineer, AE * Agriculture
Economist, ACE = Agriculture Credit Economist, CS a Credit Specialist.
31 Performance Rating: 1 z no significant problems, 2 = moderate problems - significant but not critical
deviations from project goal, 3 = major problems - requiring special attention and intensive
supervision.



-29 -                              ANNEX 1
Mechanized Dhonis Engaged in Fishing
1985     1986       1987       1988     1989        1990
...... ............... (No.)    ................
A. Project Area
North Thiladhunmathi              61         69         65        72        73          74
South Thiladhunmathi              18         25         35        91        33          34
North Miladhunmadulu              18         26         36        48        58          71
South Miladhunmadulu              21         18         21        27        36          37
North Maalhosmadulu               82         83         88        99       117         124
South Maalhosmadulu               77         76         72        77        76          84
Faadhippolhu                      45         44         49        49        53          50
Total Project Area                 322       341        366        403      446         474
B. Outside Project Area            666       668        678        693      668         677
C. Total Maldives                  988      1,009      1,044     1,096    1,114        1,151
Source: Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture.



-30-                                      ANNEX2
Total Fish Production and Exro
1.9811   1.982   1 1983   11984   1 1985    1986    1987    19.88    198.9   1 1990
0 ............................ ................ (tom'OOO) 
Total fish    34.9     30.3     38.5     55.0    61.9    59.3    56.9        71.8    71.3    76.4
landings
of which     (28.7)   (23.8)   (31.5)   (44.1)   (53.7)   (53.7)   (51.9)   (68.0)   (67.8)   (70.4)
tuna
Fish Production and Export, 1990
I. Production
Slipjack                                      59.9
Yellowfin tuna                                 5.3
Other tuna                                    5.2
Reef & bottom fish                             6.0
Total                                     76.4
H1. Disposal
a) Export fresh/frozen                         23.8
b) Other Export
- Dry skipjack (Maldive fish)                  12.1
- Dry salted slipjack                          6.3
- Dry salted reef fish                         2.3
- Canned fish                                  14.1
Total                                     34.8
c) Local Consumption                           17.8



ANNEX 3
- 31 -
Estimated Fish Catch Rer Dhoni
Location        Mechanized    Fishing      Average       Total    Average Catch    Catch per
Vessels     Trips       Trips per     Catch       per Vessel       Tripu
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ V essels_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(Nb)        (Nb)         (Nb)        (Ton)         (Ton)         (kg/day)_l
Baa                 84         9,707         115         3,852         45.9           395
Raa                124        23,040         185         7,286         58.8           315
Lhaviyani           50         10,497        210         5,200        104.0           495
Noonu               37         5,894         159         2,042         55.2           345
Shaviyani           71         13,026        183         2,807         39.5           215
Haa Dhaalu          34         5,101         150         1,769         52.0           345
Haa Aliffu          74         15,139        204         5,880         79.5           388
Average                                     172                      61.0            356
" 1 trip = 1 fishing day.
Source: Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture (1991).



ANNEX 4
-32 -
Estimated Incremental Fish Production from 2nd Generation Dhoni
1990  1  1991  1 1992  j  1993        1994      1995-2000
Boat Delivery (Nb)        6        16        18       20        15           -
Cumulative Nb of Boats    6        22       40        60        75          75
Total Catch " (Tons)     366      1,342    2,440    3,660      4,575      4,575
" Based on 172 fishing days and an average catch of 356 kg/day/boat. (See details on ANNEX 3).



Felivaru Carmery: Production Value (1991 Prices)
1987            1988             1989            1990             1991            1992             1993            1994
Without                                                        With Project
l ____________________     Project
l.                                         . .  .  .    . .   . . . . .. . . . . . . (No. of Cases)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. Production"
Carned Tuna - Solid            59,837          167,361         186,768         207,218          148,547          182,770         188,790          194,810
- Chunk           134,810         166,770          264,748         395,668          419,951          24,280          438,260         452,230
- flake            15,236          37,438           94,742          32,358           41,020          45,690           47,190          45,700
Total                         209,883         371,569          546,258         635,24           609,518          652.740         674,240          695,740
I.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    (Tors)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Fish Heat Production              715            1,397           1,980           2,469            2,415            2,500           2,580            2,660
Frozen Fish for                     -            1,639           1,308             321              449              400             450              400
Export
I______   .............................                                          . (USS'000) 
B. Production Value
(1991 Prices)
| Canned Tuna - Solid           1,388            3,883           4,333           4,807            3,446            4,240           4,380            4,520
- Chunk            2,925            3,619            5,745           8,586           9,113            9,207           9,510            9,813          l
- Flake              293              719            1,819             621              788             877             906              877         w
Ffsh Heat Production              436             852            1,208            1,506           1,437            1,525           1,574            1,623         l
Frozen Fish for                     -             762              608              149             209              186             209              186
Export
Total Production                5,042           9,835           13,713           15,669          15,029           16,035          16,579           17,019
Value (US'000)
Total Production                 46.5            86.4            124.0            149.6           155.6            166.0           171.6            176.1
Value
(MRf million)
Total IncrementaL                   -            39.9             77.5            103.1           109.1            119.5           125.1            129.6
Value
(HRf million)
"   Actual figures for 1987-1991 and mission's estimates from 1992 onwards.
2v  Respective 1991 prices are given in Annex 8.
v   Relative exchange rates are given in Annex 8.



Total Prolect Cost
1963    |    1984         1985          1986         1             1988         1989          1990          1991         Total
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (NRf '000 in CLrrent terms)   . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. Total Project Cost In
CLrrent Term"
- Refrigeration Complex              -            -             -          27,917       20,576          399          537            71                       49,500
- Coltector Vessets                  -            -                          -          6,496         8,108          808           -             -            15,412
- Infrastructure                     -                                     4,905        8,365         1,549        2,000         4,686           -           21,505
Sub-Total                       -            -             -         32,822        35,437       10,056        3,345         4,757           -           86,417
- Fuel Tanks                         -            -             -            -             -          1,705          173           762           410          3,050
- Fishing Vessels                    -            -             -            -             -          3,682        5,055           927           272          9,936
- Management L                      615         2,856         5,326        2,537        4,614         3,827        3,172         1,804         2,097         26,848
Training
Totat                          615         Z,656         5,326       35,359        40,051        19,270       11,745        8,250          2,779        16,251
S. Totat Project Cost in          1,064         4,683         8,042        49,149       50,064        22,353       13,154        8,745          2,779        160,033
Constant 1991 Priees'
C. Total Project Costs for        1,064         4,683         8,042        49,149       50,064       20,375        12,961        7,937          2,639
Economic Analysust
As provided by FPID.
21 Converted Into constant 1991 prices by using inftators given In Arex 9.
Expressed in 1991 prices and excluding the fuel tanks Cost.



- 35 -                                              ANNEX 7
Second Generation Vessels: Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rate of Return
Yrl           Yr2     I   Yrs3-9    I    YrlO      I   Yrll      Yrsl2-20
......................... (M.Rf) ..l
I. Cash Inflow
Gross Sales"                         -          156,508       156,508        156,508      156,508    156,508
L.T. Loan'                        172,500          -             -             -             -           -
Owner's Contributione'             15,025          -             -             -             -           -
Total Cash Inflow               187,525       156,508       156,508       156,508       156,508    156,508
II. Cash Outflow
Investment Costs4'               187,525           -             -             -            -           -
Operating Costs
- Crew Share S'                     -           40,422        40,422        40,422        40,422     40,422
- Fuel and Oil'                     -           46,964        46,964        46,964        46,964     46,964
- Food7'                            -            8,600         8,600         8,600         8,600      8,600
- Maint. & Repairv                  -           12,000        12,000        12,000        12,000      12,000
- Insurance'                                                                                                 l
- Annual Replacement
Cost'                            -           3,465          3,465       13,465"'       3,465       3,465
Total Cash Inflow                187,525       111,451       111,451        121,451      111,451     111,451
m. Cash Balance Before
Dept. Service                      -           45,057        45,057        35,057        45,057     45,057
IV. Dept. Service"2'                              22,300        22,300        22,300        22,300        -
V. Cash Balance After
Dept. Service                                  22,757        22,757        12,757        22,757     45,057
Financial Rate of Return: 23.4%
" 172 fishing days, average catch 356 kg, 85% of catch is assumed to be sold fresh; of fresh fish 40% is assumed smaller than 2 kg
(Rf 2.0/kg) and 60% over 2 kg (Rf 2.51kg). The remaining 15 % of the catch is processed for Maldive fish (boiled, smoked and sun
dried), sold at Rs2O/kg (conversion factor 5 kg of fresh fish = 1 kg Maldive fish).
2 L.T. loan: Rf223,000 for boat, engine (39 HP) and accessories (walkie talkie) set, compasses, navigational lights, anchor, ropes, and
poles for maneuvering.
3' Owner's contribution Rfl5,025 including baitnet (Rf4,500), 5 fiberglass poles (Rf700/ea), 45 bamboo poles (Rf45/ea) and 2,000 hooks
(Rf2.5/ea).
v Total investment cost of Rf239,150 as indicated in footnotes 2 and 3.
5 Gross value of sales minus fuel lubrification cost, food and 11% of investment cost (Rf20,100); the balance is equally devided between
the owner of the boat and the crew.
4' Average fuel assumption is 80 I/fishing day (average 10 hrs/trip) at Rf3.25/1; oil 11 1/month at Rf 17/1.
" Food at Rf50/fishing day.
v Maintenance and repair at Rf3,000 every 3 months.
9' At 3 % of vessel value; paid in advance and included in the investment costs.
'' Baitnets replaced every 4 years (Rfl,125), bamboo poles every year (Rf2,025) plus 10% for small items.
"' Including RflO,000 for major engine repairs.
12' Capital Recovery Factor at 5 % applied.



- 36 -                                 AhNX 8
Producer and Export Prices of Fish and Fish Products
(End 1991 Prices)
A. Producer Prices                                         (Rf/kg)
Skipjack (up to 2 kg)                                         2
(>2 kg)                                               2.5
Maldives Fish                                                20
Dry Fish                                                    12.5
B. Export Prices                             FOB                          C&F
(US$ICASE)
Canned Tuna" - Solid                          23.2                        25.0
- Chunlk                           21.7                        23.5
- Flake                            19.2                        21.0
(US$/Ton)
Frozen Fish t                                 610                          720
Fish Meal                                     465                          495
" Cost of Freight: US$2,950/container of 1,650 cases = US$1.8/case.
2/  Cost of Freight: US$110/ton.
' Cost of Freight: US$30/ton.



-37 -                                    ANNEX 9
Inflators/Deflators and Exchange Rates) 1983-1991
Consumer Price Index"         Inflators        Deflators       Exchange Rate
I        (1982-100)                                                (MRf/US$)"
1983                109.6                  1.72              1.05              7.05
1984                115.3                  1.64              1.11              7.05
1985                125.5                  1.51              1.21              7.10
1986                136.0                  1.39              1.31              7.15
1987                151.7                  1.25              1.46              9.22
1988                163.1                  1.16              1.57              8.78
1989                169.0                  1.12              1.62              9.04
1990                178.4                  1.06              1.71              9.55
1991                189.1                  1.00              1.82              10.35
" Source: Ministry of Planning and Environment.
2v  Source: Maldives Monetary Authority



Total Project Cost
1983    |    1984    |    1985    |    1986    |    1947    |    1968           1989    |    1990    |    1991    |   Totat
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (IRf '000 in ctwrent terms)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. Total Project Cost in
Current Term"
- Refrigeration Comptex                     -                   -          27,917       20,576          399          537            71                       49,500
- CotLector Vessels                               -                          -          6,496         8,108          808           -             -           15,412
- Infrastructure                     -            -             -          4,905        8,365         1,549        2,000         4,686           -           21,505
Sub-TotaL                       -            -             -          32,822       35,437       10,056        3,345         4,757            -          86,417
- FueL Tanks                         -            -             -            -             -          1,705           173          762           410          3,050
- Fishing Vessels                    -            -             -            -             -          3,682        5,055           927           272          9,936
- Management &                      615         2,856         5,326        2,537        4,614         3,827        3,172         1,804         2,097         26,848
Training
Totat                          615         2,856         5,326        35,359       40,051       19,270        11,745        8,250         2,779         126,251
B. Totat Project Cost in          1,064         4,683         8,042        49,149       50,064       22,353        13,154        8,745          2,779        160,033
Constant 1991 Prices2'
C. Totat Project Costs for        1,064         4,683         8,042        49,149       50,064       20,375        12,961        7,937          2,639
Ecoramic Anatysis c'
OD
As provided by FPID.
Converted into constant 1991 prices by using inftators given in Anrex 9.
Expressed in 1991 prices and excluding the fuet tanks cost.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1 1
Refrigeration Complex - Investment Cost" (in Current Terms and in Constant 1991 Prices)
l  Refrigeration  I  Collector    Infrastructurev I Tech. Asst.>   Total (current   Total'(constant
Complex          Vessels                                            Terms)          1991 Prices)
............!................ .  (M   million) ............................
1983               -               -                 -               0.2             0.2                0.3
1984              -                -                 -               0.9             0.9                1.5
1985              -                -                 -               1.6             1.6                2.4
1986             27.9              -                2.5              0.8             31.2              43.4
1987             20.6             6.5               4.2               1.4            32.7              40.9
1988             0.4              8.1               0.8              1.1             3.2           -   3.7
1989             0.5              0.8               1.0              1.0             3.3                3.7
1990             0.1               -                2.3              0.5             2.9                3.1
1991              -                -                 -               0.6             0.6                0.6
1992               -               -                 --                               -
"Details are given in Annex 10.
a 50% of total investment costs are allocated to the refrigeration complex.
v 30% of total investment costs are allocated to the refrigeration complex.
' Converted into 1991 prices using inflators given in Annex 8.



Operating Cost: Refrigeration Complex ard Total felivaru Complex
Collector       Refrigeration          Cold            Stipuay        Total Refrigeration Complex               Total Fetivary Caeplex             Total
Vessels           coaplex           Storage                          (Exctudirn  cwn ery)                 l                                    Incremntal
__________________  ________________  ________________                                           ~~~~~Oper.    Costs
(Current       (1991 Prices)'          (Current          (1991
l____________    _______________    __________                             Terms) __|                             Terms)  X         Prices)   21
l         (1)                (Z)              ~~~        ~      ~~     ~     ~~~~~(3)  (4O  (5)=1+2+3A4  O)       1       (7)              (a)       I
l_____________          . ............................... .. . (MRf' million) .......... .......................
1987                            -                  - .                                                  -                     -            37.8            47.2
1988                          1.1                1.7               0.4               0.4              3.6                  4.2             46.9            54.4                7.2
1989                          1.2                2.9               0.4               0.3              4.8                  5.4              81.3           91.1               43.9
1990                          1.8                !.0               0.5               0.4              5.7                  6.0             125.5          133.0               85.8
1991                          2.9                3.2               0.7               0.3              7.1                   7.1            133.0          133.0               85.8
1992-onwards                  2.9                3.2               0.7               0.3              7.1                   7.1            133.04          133.0w             85.8
0
" Excluding Cannery - Data provided by FPID (Audited Accounts).
21   Converted into 1991 prices by using inflators as given in Annex B.
3'  Including Cannery - Data provided by FPID (Audited Accounts).
"   Actual 1991 operating costs are projected to remain constant in view of the on-going policy to reduce by 20%  Ihe number of workers in the Felivaru complex.
Savings estimated at MR19.0 million/year would be available to meet the increased fish purchases and manufacturing costs until full development (year 1994 as          X
indicated in Annex S) is reached.



-41-                                     ANNEX 13
Refrigeration Complex: Financial Rate of Return
Investment    iOperating         Fsh            Gross         Balance
Costs"          osts'       Purchases3'     Revenues4'
...................... (M  Rfmillion) .
1983               0.3              -              -              -             (0.3)
1984               1.5              --                            -             (1.5)
1985               2.4              -              -              -             (2.4)
1986               43.4             -              -              -            (43.4)
1987               40.9             -              -              -            (40.9)
1988               3.7             4.2            11.0           28.4            9.5
1989               3.7             5.4            13.2           34.0           11.7
1990               3.1             6.0            15.4           39.7           15.2
1991               0.6             7.1            17.6           45.4           20.1
1992                -              7.1            17.6           45.4           20.7
1993                               7.1            17.6           45.4           20.7
1994-2007           -              7.1            17.6           45.4           20.7
Financial Rate of Return: 16.8%
" Details are given in Annex 11.
2v Details are given in Annex 12 (column 6).
: Based on 8,000 tons of fish purchased at full development (1991) at MRf2.21kg (average price for fresh fish).
4' Based on 7,200 tons of frozen fish sold at full development (1991) at FOB price of MRf6.3/kg of forzen fish.



-42-                                             ANNEX 14
Economic Rate of Return
Investment Costs"      Incr. Operating         Incremental        Incremental Balance
I       Costs2'              Revenues"       I
. ......................... (MRf million) .
1983                          1.1                    -                      -                    (1.1)
1984                          4.6                                                               (4.6)
1985                          8.0                                                               (8.0)
1986                        109.5                    -                                         (109.5)
1987                         50.1                    -                      -                   (50.1)
1988                         20.4                   7.2                   39.9                   12.3
1989                          13.0                  43.9                  77.5                   20.6
1990                          7.9                   85.8                  103.1                   9.4
1991                          2.4                   85.8                  109.1                  20.9
1992                           -                    85.8                  119.5                  33.7
1993                                                85.8                  125.1                  39.3
1994 onwards                                        85.8                  129.6                  43.8
Economic Rate of Return: 14.4%
" See details in Annex 10.
2/ See details in Anex 12.
3' See details in Annex 6.
Including the cost of new cannery financed by STO estimated
at MRf60.4 million (1991 prices).



-43 -ANNEX 15
Proiect Economic Rate of Return Based on E,mort of Frozen Fish
Years1   Investlnen t        Operating           Incremental Fish          Incremental Gross        Balance
Costs"            Costs,      I        Purchases"         I       Revenues'         I
...... ..... ................ .   (MRf million) .........     l
1983          1.1                                                                                    (1.1)
1984          4.6                                                                                    (4.6)
1985          8.0                                                                                    (8.0)
1986         49.1                                                                                    (49.1)
1987         50.1                -                      --                                           (50.1)
1988         20.4               4.2                    11.2                       29.9               (5.9)
1989         13.0               5.4                    17.8                       46.3                10.1
1990          7.9               6.0                    20.4                       53.3                19.0
1991          2.6               7.1                    21.7                       58.2               26.8
1992           -                7.1                    22.7                       61.0               31.2
1993           -                7.1                    23.8                       64.0               33.1
1994-          -                7.1                    24.9                       67.0               35.0
2007
Economic Rate of Return: 16.9 %
" Detils are given in Annex 10.
2 Details are given in Annex 13.
SI  Based on production figures given in Annex 5 (fish purchases at MRf2.2/kg).
Q   Based on production figures given in Annex 5 (total fish purchases minus rejects and valued at FOB prices of
MRf6.3/kc,0.






MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 161 16R
720                      730                      740  -'DECEMER 1611C2
INDIA                          r                      uivw7*X                                                        7
HAA AL IFFU      .i    ,
BAI, DP                       Huvaraf.uhi 14
R dgENvGAI                                    t. I^uYzrhtushr  I nhidhd
A RAsiAN SEA            ! MdrsA                                          , p a-
|                  |HAA OHAAf U    _S ~~~~~~~:-KuIhudhuffush
HAA DHAALU  ~. KIht,  fth 
Mulssms Kurudhoo     * Masidhoo
.  ,         *.'   '/        .eeh  SHAVIYANI
SRI LANKA                           i:.         -    Maidoodhoo
Caomo0                    _                                     i FJ,iLA0hM.....................6
' Kv*udhoo
,,1.,:                              Aigulifushi           NOONU              |
I  RAA                          aua~
MALDIVES                            I      =AA            2                                 I
, AIDIAN 0CLEAA,                                     LIA U   ?Naai          HAVIYANI
ThulhadhoBA   G.idu /    Kathidihoo
I      Thu1,aEso                                       I
Mothiveri    .'      ^     HuluI     A
|     * .:*     aJi ' #MALE   KAt 
40                                              j   ALIFU          * .. ' iMlaathI                      I                            40
|M Mio *. ..If
A R A 6 ' d'Q   S ' 1              |       Mmndu '   , MIndu
I*         -           , sKWocho VAA VU
FAAFU    .                        ' /a,u Chanrel  I
-30                   1Nla dhor                                                      , Hu 3a
KudoOuvirhoS'                    MEEMUIj
DHAALU                                 Ch&,.,  '  M lEE,Ul
(    ; 1                X JShIjdrJL Cp,v,ne/   I
MALDIVES                                Kardoodhoo         ,:
THAA          .-. Aionchh
2- SECOND  FISHERY  PROJECT   TAA Veyman  Th,mfuhi
Garnu
Location of Oil Storage Facilities                            aog*               FondhLAAMU
--   PROJECT AREA
*      OIL TANKS
2       NATIONAL CAPITAL
MulA      ADMINISTRATIVE CAPITALS
Gamu     OTHER ISLAND
o            +         AIRFIELDS
-_        ADMINISTRATIVE ATOLLS                           .         I i
GAAFU AL/fU
GAAFUDHAAAIU           n
Nsdhila            t ' dhoo
00           0          50        IOD       150              Era arurwral Cha,,,aeatooe                            awl  Omfdo
KILOMETERS                                            GNAVIYANI            7A*aeiaea       ,
SIO                    \     .' FuaMulakul          *f. h.  .
MILES                     SEENU
Hi03  7dO     7\0
S            ~~       ~       ~      ~~710  72                 ?0                     74                       71






IBAD 16117R
72N 40                        73 00                          73030.                               DECEMSER iiiO
Of NW                                     N~~~~~U VA RAPUA           HAA ALIFL 
Huv'rafuthI 4  700
SRI LANKA
'., MALDIVES                                                                                       Dh*    _    *
*64                                                                                         Kuilhudohttuih                                                    640
HAA Dh'AALU                                                                                             6
Mavaidtoo
Miams Kunudhoo                /
ARAl IA IV SEA                                         /
620.'                                                            /                                      F  .2
$Om                                                              Fwvah                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6020.-
r  '  \jM.ikodoodhoo
SNAVIYANI
/   \          ,                         ~~~~~~~        ~       ~      ~~forukodhur
MALDIVES                    /                                 .                   .  ./                            t
SECOND, FISHERY PROJECT   \.
Major Fishing  Grounds                                                           '-                                                                6000
' Major Fishing lWands                                 ,v.    *                            ' 
o i)    Collecting Points                                                            NOOPJU   -,   , -
*       Freezing Plant                                    fHh
Major Fidhing Grounds
NsIaru   Administrative Capitals                                       ,VINAPAA
A60fush,   Other Islands                                       RAAI'e o&
-   Administrative Atolls                                               5\40'_
-M"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC
fluIhudhoo        -
xA+OO~~~~~~ .                a          .              \I
0         10        20         30          -t          Huhdo   *                   \   ..-  .4AVAAU   '<,           l  
KILOMETERS            2                                                '     ~      UtA U
0i               10               20             Z,"U4.-                   l      /                                     ;            }S ^
MILES                                      K                              *"        ~         '                                A
N~     ..ULNA IYANI'
6 0,20                                                                                    5020'
BAA       -       '       ,                    ,..-..'
Mebarup'
,.,. i   _    .          _ = ~~~DherntJoiw  
This eow has bet prwpared by the                                          0 Evithfush        /         KAAFU
Wodd Bonks staff oxcAjaively' far                           WFYAADAf 00.        JMAtI /
the convonenc. of the reodews of                         0 *
the repwl to whch it is ant.ched             U     I           .
saw       rho dwminations used and the                                                                                                                        sow- Tuaoo  /
bo1ndens shown on Ots mop
do not m'iiy on the pwa  of the
Worsd Bank end its sffiketes. any                                                /
judgment an the Apal status of
any temto,orOr anY ondorsamenent
or acceptance of such boundafies                             Gold
7220                     /7
1P2020                        72040.                        7200                           73020."4






IBRD 16832
DECEMSfR 1982
----------------_
PROpOsfD CANNERY COAfPEX  xfTENS/ONt
=_f/N DI/A N          O C E A N
* ,-ML AJ*U I
flA~A OI(AALIJ I,
3;ryvv b. MALDIVES
. ,AIfI                                                                                                                                        FELIVARU ISLAND
_~~~~~1 AAA    '
,.  ALU )    v 
I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
A RAGLAN
e   -,         SEA
G-U Dk LU              ~~~MALDIVUS
+-  - ; ND -0                                                                                                     100
C.-Amau     r AWL L5          X    IN O                                                                                                            METERS I    .   10,0    ,   20,.0 M



