;;-   p  .-  --. <- 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4084-MAL
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
January 6, 1983
Agro-Industries and Credit Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQU:VALENTS
Free Market Exchange Used in the Report
Currency Unit  =  Rufiyaa (Rf)
Rf 7.00 = US$1.00
Rf 1.00 = US$0.143
Rf 1 M   =  US$142,857
(As of April 1, 1982)
Official Accounting Rate
This rate is used for all foreign exchange transactions of the Government
and as a reference rate to deternine procurement prices of fish, domestic
sales prices of basic consumer goods :imported by the State Trading
Organization, and the value of imported goods subject to duty.
Rf 4.00 = US$1.00
Rf 1.00 = US$0.25
Rf 1 H   =  IJS$250,000
(As of Apri:L 1, 1982)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 litre (1)  =  0.220 ImperiaL Gallons (Imp. gallons)
1 kilometer  =  0.5400 international nautical miles (NMI)
=    0.6214 mile (mi)
1 knot        =  1 international nautical mile per hour
1 metric ton (MT) = 2,204.6226 pounds (lbs)
= 1.1023 3hort tons (sh tons)
= 0.9842 Long tons (lg tons)
1 kilowatt (kw)    =  1.3410 lhorsepower (hp)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB    - Asian Development Bank
DTFI   - Department for Tourism and Foreign Investment
GOM    - Governinent of Maldives
GRT    - Gross Registered Ton
IDA    - International Development Association
IFAD   - International Fund for Agricultural Development
KFAED  - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MD     - Managing Director
MFC    - Maldives Fisheries Corporation
MMA    - Maldives Monetary Authority
MNC    - M4aldive Nippon Company
MOF    - Ministry of Fisheries
MSL    - Maldives Shipping Ltd.
MTCC   - Maldives Transport and Contracting Company
MTI    - Ministry for Trade and Industry
NEC    - Norwegian Export Council
NG     - Norwegian Government
NPA    - National Planning Agency
PCC    - Project Coordinating Committee
PD     - Project Director
PIU    - Project Implementation Unit
SOE    - Statements of Expenditure
STO    - State Trading Organization
UNDP   - United Nations Development Program
VTC      Vocational Training Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
I.     FISHERIES SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
The Role of Fisheries in the National Economy  . . . . .   1
Production of Fish and Fish Resources  . . . . . . . . .   1
Fishing Methods   . ...............                        .   3
Fish Marketing, Processing and Utilization   . . . . . .   3
Tuna Export Prospects  . . . . . . . . . ........    4
Fisheries Administration   . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .        6
II.    GOVERNMENT FISHERIES POLICY AND STRATEGY FOR DEVELOPMENT  . . .   7
Recent Developments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
The First IDA Fisheries Project   . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Joint Ventures with Foreign Companies   . . . . . . . . . 8
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development Project   . . .  9
Private Mother Vessel Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
III.   THE FISHING INDUSTRY IN THE PROJECT AREA   . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Project Area   . . . . . .  .      .  .  .  .   . . . . . . .  9
Existing Infrastructure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Fuel Storage and Distribution   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
The Transporation Sector  .         .  .  .  .     . . . . .11
IV.    THE PROJECT  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Project Identification and Preparation  . . . . . . . . . 12
Project Objectives and Rationale  . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
General Description         . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  13.
Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . .. . ..                .  14
Refrigeration Complex  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Collector Vessels  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Fuel Storage and Distribution Facilities . . . . . . 15
Fishing Vessels  . . . . . . . . . . ..15
Infrastructure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Technical Assistance       . . . . . . . . . . . ...  17
Cost Estimates  . . . . * *       .    * * * *       . .    .. . 19
Financing        .      ...........                  . ..   20
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Disbursement.... . . .  22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)                                           Page No.
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
State Trading Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Project Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Project Coordinating Committee  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Training  . . . . . . .                       . ....   ....  .  ..  .  .  ..   . 25
Management  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
Fish Pricing Policy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Fuel Distribution Policy  . .                  .. .....  28
Selection of Beneficiaries for Fishing Vessel Loans . . .29
Accounts and Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Monitoring and Evaluation   .           .. . .29
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES   ..... .         .  . .   ... ....30
Production    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
Markets and Prices ..   .       .  .  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . 31
Local Fish Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Project Impact  ... ..............                       32
Vessel Incomes and EProduction  . . . . . . . .  . . .32
Employment   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
Impact on Target Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Financial Analysis.. . .  . .    .... 33
Fishing Vessels     ........                     . . 33
Fish Collection and Freezing . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Fuel Distribution  .... . .. ........               33
Overall Financial Rate of Return   . . . . . . . . . 34
Economic Analysis . . . . .   .     .     .             . 34
Economic Benefits and Costs  . ....... 34
Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Environmental Impact  .. ........                 ..   . .35
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . 35



ANNEXES
1   -   Fisheries Subsector - Statistical Data
2   -   Projections for Fish Catch and Fish Collection Requirements
3   -   Projections for Fuel Demand, Fuel Distribution Requirements and
Present Fuel Storage and Distribution Facilities
4   -   Investment Costs
5   -   Disbursement Schedule
6   -   Cash Flow Projections
7   -   With and Without Project Analysis - Project Impact on Non-project
Vessels
8   -   Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Analysis
9   -   STO, Selected Financial Data
10  -   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
WB 24475   Operational Structure, State Trading Organization
WB 24445   Implementation Schedule
WB 23353   Organization Table of Fuel Distribution Division
WB 23354 Organization Table of Fish Mlarketing Division
WB 24000   Suggested Layout of Fish Processing Plant
MAPS
IBRD 16117R Major Fishing Grounds
IBRD 16116R Location of Oil Storage Facilities
IBRD 16832 Felivaru Island
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. G. van Santen, (IDA), A.R. Trott and H.G. van Helden (Consultants)
which visited Maldives in March/April 1982. Mr. F. Bourgois (IFAD)
participated full-time in the mission. Messrs. D. Lee (IDA),
0. Schistad (NEC) and C. Saramango (IFAD) also joined the mission part-time.






MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. FISHERIES SECTOR
The Role of Fisheries in the National Economy
1.01    The Republic of Maldives encompasses an archipelago of nearly 1,200
islands in the Indian Ocean, grouped in atolls, forming a long narrow chain
over an area of 107,000 sq. km. Its estimated population of 155,000 (1981)
is growing at an annual rate of 2.8%, and is scattered thinly over about 200
islands; only 19 islands have more than 1,000 inhabitants. Male, the capi-
tal, has over 35,000 crowded on its 2 sq. km. Since 1977, per capita income
has grown at an annual rate of 23% in nominal terms or 5% at 1980 constant
market prices. Nominal GDP per capita reached about US$370 in 1981.
1.02    Fishing is the dominant sector of the economy, but in the past 10
years tourism has shown most vigorous growth. The share of tourism in GDP
grew from 5% in 1978 to 9% in 1981; fishing contributed 14% in 1981 compared
to 24% in 1978. Over this four year period, the fishing sector grew 22% in
nominal terms compared to a fourfold increase for tourism. In 1978 the
fishing sector accounted for almost one half of the employed labor force, and
nearly all visible export earnings. By 1981 fish export earnings had nearly
doubled to US$7.3 million.
1.03    The population of the Male region has been the main beneficiary of
the country's rapid income growth; income of people on the other atolls
increasingly lags behind. To spread the benefits of economic progress and to
moderate the tide of internal migration to the Male region, the Government of
Maldlives (GOM) has begun to develop outer atolls. Fishing plays a central
role in this strategy, which aims at increasing catch and domestic value
added. Compared to other countries, opportunities for employment in sectors
other than tourism, transport, fishing and fish processing are few, giving
further weight to the future role of the fishing sector.
Production of Fish and Fish Resources
1.04    Catches in Maldives are dominated by skipjack tuna (Katsuwonis
pelamis) and yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), which in 1980 comprised 68%
and 12% of total fish landings (Annex 1, Table 1). Catches also include
frigate mackerel (Auxis spp) and little tuna (Euthynus affinis). These are
schooling fish, caught by pole and line method outside the atolls. Tradi-
tionally, white meat fish species like kingfish (Scombermorus spp), reef fish
like snappers and groupers, lobsters and increasing quantities of sharks are



-2-
being caught, often inside the atolls; each of the latter species commands
less than 5% of the total catch.
1.05    Catch records reveal very substantial fluctuations of catches of
dominant species between years, atolls and fishing methods. These catches
reflect changes in the behavior of fislh stocks, particularly their proximity
to the reef, and are also influenced by variations in fishing efforts (the
number of fishing days and the effectiveness of fishing vessels). In 1980
skipjack tuna catches reached 24,000 MT, an increase of 40%. over the 1978
catch, but still 21% below the record 130,000 MT of 1971. Total annual fish
landings over the 1970-1980 period averaged 30,000 MT; the catch fluctuated
between 25,000 MT in 1972 and 35,000 MT in 1971, 1974 and 1980.
1.06    There are no estimates of stockl size and potential yields for skip-
jack tuna for the Maldives. Skipjack Larvae and juveniles appear throughout
the central and western part of the Indian Ocean, in which skipjack popula-
tions appear in extensive areas. The potential annual yield of skipjack tuna
from the entire Indian Ocean is estimat:ed at about 350,000 MT; currently
countries bordering the Indian Ocean take about 45,000 MT. Yellowfin tuna
occurs around the equator between Indonesia and Africa. Catches of mature
yellowfin in the Indian Ocean (about 60,000 MT) are quite close to estimated
potential yields. This concerns mature animals only, while most yellowfin
tuna caught in Maldives (4,000 MT) are juvenile. Both in the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans sizable fisheries developed for young yellowfin tuna at the
time that catches of mature yellowfin were estimated to be close to or in
excess of the estimated potential sustainable yield of mature fish. Deep
swimming mature yellowfin tuna are caught by tuna longliners; Maldivian
fishermen do not participate in this commercial, high technology fishery.
Although foreign longliners seasonally fish in Maldives' economic zone, the
impact on Maldivian catches of young tuna is negligible.  A moderate expan-
sion of Maldives' catch of yellowfin is therefore considered feasible.
1.07    The potential yield of other species, particularly reef fish, is not
known.  Current catches are small, and a moderate expansion is unlikely to
create resource problems.
1.08    Fishing operations are concentrated in three areas:
(i) around Male, where catches are largely used for local
consumption;
(ii) in the four atolls bordering the One and a Half Degree
channel in the south; and
(iii) in Lhaviyani, Baa, Raa and Noonu atolls north of Male.
The recorded number of fishing trips and the total catches in the above areas
(ii) and (iii) are about one-third each of the nation's total; both areas
report good fishing during at least eight months of the year. The Male area
is estimated to account for about 10% cf total production. The rest of the
country accounts for the remaining 25%.



-3-
Fishing Methods
1.09    Over 90% of the tuna catch is caught by mechanized fishing vessels
usinig the pole and line method. This involves two separate stages: fishing
for bait fish and for tuna. On a typical daily trip, bait fish is caught
early in the morning near reef areas, and kept alive in the baitwell of the
fishing vessel. When sufficient bait has been caught, the vessel goes out
to sea; skipjack tuna rarely enter the waters inside the atolls, and are
caught up to 25 km seaward. Once a school is sighted, it is approached, and
live bait is tossed in the water, concentrating and holding the tuna in close
proximity to the boat. The tuna are then caught by up to eight fishermen who
use a pole, a short line and an artificial lure and hook as gear. The boats
currently do not carry ice and have to return with their catches in the early
evening.
1.10    Fishing vessels employed for pole and line fishing have a length of
up to 15 m, and carry a crew of about 12. Before 1972 they were sail driven.
In 1972 the first vessel was successfully mechanized, and currently over
1,000 vessels have received engines. In 1979 IDA's first fisheries project
(Cr. 907-MAL) became effective, and provided funding for about 500 engines.
About 325 engines have so far been installed, and all engines are expected to
be installed by the end of 1983. Mechanized vessels prove superior to sail-
ing vessels in fishing performance and costs and earnings; they also par-
ticipate in tourist transport and in traditional inter-island trade. The
country's fleet of smaller fishing vessels of under about 8 m has not been
mechanized and continues to be used for part time fishing operations with
lines. The use of nets for capturing fish other than bait is prohibited in
the Maldives as a result of a recently executed law aimed at curbing poten-
tial activities of foreign industrial fishing operations, which could be
damaging to local fishing operations.
1.11    New fishing vessels are being constructed throughout the archipelago,
but progress suffers from lack of wood, and waiting time for engines. Tradi-
tionally built of scarce indigenous coconut palm wood, new vessels need
licenses to cut the required number of coconut palms and are increasingly
constructed of imported timber. Under the first Fisheries Project, IDA
executed a United Nations Development Program (UNDP) financed fishing vessel
design and construction program which developed two new designs. The "second
generation" vessel combines traditional features with improved deck layout,
engine controls and baitwells and optional use of ice. Four prototype ves-
sels currently fish successfully. A larger "long range" vessel, designed for
longer trips and the use of ice for preservation of fish, has been con-
structed, and started its trials in September 1982.
Fish Marketing, Processing and Utilization
1.12    About one third of the Maldivian fish catch in 1980 was consumed
locally. The rest was exported frozen (35%), canned (8%) or salted and dried
(25%) (Annex 1, Table 1). Frozen and canned tuna was exported by four com-
panies: (i) HOKO Maldives, a subsidiary of HOKO Fishing Company of Japan
(frozen tuna); (ii) Maldive Nippon Company (MNC), a joint venture between
three Japanese companies and GOM (frozen and canned tuna); (iii) Maldives



-4-
Fisheries Corporation (MFC), which is state-owned (frozen tuna); and (iv)
Island Enterprises, a privately owned Maldivian company (frozen tuna). Until
early 1982, MFC marketed its fish through HOKO. As of June 1, 1982, MNC has
withdrawn from Maldives and all assets have been taken over by GOM. The
State Trading Organization (STO) is now in charge of its operations and
management. HOKO handled over 65% of tuna exports by the companies, which in
1980 amounted to 14,900 MT. Dried and salted fish is exported by private
merchants (80%) and STO (20%). In the past six years fish exports went
predominantly to Japan (frozen tuna), Europe (canned tuna) and Sri Lanka
(dried fish).
1.13    The companies operate a total of about nine mother vessels of between
150-1,000 GRT which receive, freeze and store tuna; HOKO also operates about
five 5-15 GRT collector vessels which collect fresh fish near the fishing
grounds. MNC's former assets include a land based 300 MT cold storage, a 15
MT/day tuna cannery and four collector vessels at Felivaru island in
Lhaviyani atoll. There is an understanding between the companies and GOM
whereby HOKO operates three mother vessels in the southern third of the
country while the cannery collects fish in the northern third. The other
mother vessels are not restricted by area but operate mainly south of Male.
1.14    In areas not covered by the fresh fish collection system, fishing
vessels have no option but to salt and dry for export that part of the catch
which is not consumed locally. Dried fish production is less profitable than
the sale of fresh fish.
Tuna Export Prospects
1.15    Total world production of skipjack tuna in 1981 was about 0.8 million
MT and of yellowfin tuna 0.5 million MT; nearly 40% of the total catch was
traded internationally. An estimated 60% of total production of yellowfin
and skipjack is used as raw material in the tuna canning industry, while the
rest is used for direct human consumption, or processed into other products.
Yellowfin and skipjack are the predominant species used for tuna canning.
The USA, Japan, France, Italy and Spain have major canning operations.
Lately canning capacity has expanded rapidly in the Philipp.ines, Mexico,
Ivory Coast and Thailand. The USA consumes about 65% of the world's canned
tuna production, Europe some 25%.
1.16    Frozen skipjack and yellowfin tuna prices dropped substantially after
reaching all time highs in early 1981. Skipjack prices decreased by up to
40%. The growth of worldwide tuna catching capacity and cal-ches have
exceeded the increase in demand for canned tuna in the past year, causing
rapidly growing stocks and ultimately a decrease in raw material and canned
tuna prices. The price drop has been more severe than in any previous market
slump, and is the result of several coinciding developments:
(i) The growth in catching capacity, which was fuelled by expecta-
tions of continuing high raw material prices, availability of
easy credit, and in some countries by a conscious government
effort to expand the fishing fleet. Technical factors,
notably improvements in fishing technology, and discoveries



-5-
of large stocks of skipjack in the Western Pacific did
further increase the attractiveness of investment in tuna
vessels. In addition, high prices have kept large fleets of
relatively inefficient vessels operating.
(ii) Lack of growth in the consumption of canned tuna in the USA,
and limited growth in Europe as a result of the international
economic recession.
(iii) A reduction of canning capacity in the USA. A trend to move
canning operations closer to the catching grounds started
several years ago in France and Japan. This trend has
been less pronounced in the USA, where until recently
lower priced imported canned tuna lacked the marketing
channels to penetrate the market, thereby facilitating
high prices for raw material supplied by American vessels
and for locally canned tuna. Price differentials between
local and imported canned tuna have now become so large
that imports are beginning to efEectively penetrate the
USA market. At the same time, high costs of extensive
inventories, and large discounts on canned tuna have
reduced canning profitability in the USA, and several
major plants have been closed in the past few months.
The 1982 canned tuna production in the continental USA
was an estimated 75% of 1981 production. With many vessels
traditionally operating in the area still attempting to
sell tuna, prices at the U.S. West Coast, a worldwide
price indicator, were further depressed.
1.17    The process of structural adjustment to bring catching capacity and
consumption to a new equilibrium level started immediately after frozen
skipjack prices dropped from a level of over US$1,100/MT, CIF Japan or USA,
to about US$600-800/MT. Adjustment time will depend on the strength of the
economic recovery in the USA and Europe, and the pace at which obsolete,
inefficient and financially over-extended fishing capacity is withdrawn.
Japan recently introduced a vessel buy-back scheme to withdraw 20% of its
large pole and line fleet. In addition, it requires vessel owners to
withdraw ten pole and line boats for every new purse seiner 1/ introduced.
Plans exist to further reduce the catching capacity of the Japanese fishing
1/  Skipjack and yellowfin tuna are caught by pole and line method, longlines
and purse seines. Tuna longlining, a technique which uses a 120 km long
line which carries baited hooks about 250 m below the sea surface, is
currently largely limited to vessels from Japan and Korea and their catch
is mainly used for Japan's exclusive raw fish market. Purse seining is
a catching technique in which a very large net is pulled around a school
of fish. The underside of the net is then closed prohibiting the school
to escape. Purse seining was originally limited to the Atlantic and
Eastern Pacific Oceans. Japan, Philippines and the USA expanded purse
seining to the Western Pacific, which has very substantial tuna stocks.



-6-
fleet. In the USA, several purse seine owners have gone bankrupt; Peru
disinvested its entire purse seine fleet, several vessels in Mexico have been
repossessed by the Fisheries Bank. Fishing operations with low operating
costs like those in Indonesia, Fiji and Solomon islands are less affected by
lower world mnarket tuna prices. Imports of cheap skipjack and yellowfin
increasingly replace higher priced landings of local vessels in the USA and
Europe.  Canneries are actively looding for cheap supplies to compete more
effectively with imported canned tuna.  A country like Thailand, which has
substantial canning operations, but no large indigenous tuna fishery, is also
increasing imports of cheap raw material.  Maldives already exports some tuna
to Thailand.
1.18    Tuna canneries in many countries are expected tc rely increasingly on
cheap raw material imported fromn countries with efficierLt, cost effective
catching operations. The current trend of cannery operations being shifted
to countries with easy access to raw material is likely to intensify, and
countries like Samoa, Ivory Coast, 'Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand,
with comparatively low labor costs, will further expand production. Ineffi-
cient or high cost fish catching and cannery operations are unlikely to
maintain their present importance. A reduction of capacity which has already
started in countries like Japan, the USA and some European countries is
likely to continue for some time, ultimately restoring a balance between
supply and demand for tuna. Prices are likely to remain low while adjustments
are made.  Currently substantial differences in prices paid for raw material
do occur between countries, partly reflecting trade barriers, and temporary
imbalances between quantities supplied and demanded. Suppliers who aggres-
sively market their fish are likely to obtain slightly better prices.
Average prices for skipjack tuna are expected to settle at a level about half
way between current (November 1982) prices equivalent to about US$650/MT CIF
West Coast and US$1,100/.MT paid in 1.981, or US$400 and US$850 FOB Male,
respectively. Currently Maldives is exporting to Japan at US$240/MT FOB, 1/
and to Thailand for a reported US$4C10/AT FOB. 2/ Because of the structure of
fishing operations (paras 1.09-1.11) and the productivity of the resources,
the Maldivian fishing operations are highly cost effective compared to tuna
catching operations in other parts of the world; catching costs of tuna are
about US$225/MT, or about one-third of those of capital intensive operations
in developed countries.
Fisheries Administration
1.19    Fisheries policy in the i4aldives is coordinated by the Ministry of
Fisheries (MOF). Its functions include general fisheries policy, collection
of statistics, administration of credit to the fishing sector, planning, and
administration of foreign investment projects. However, important aspects of
1/ Price of fresh fish. To obtain FOB export value of frozen fish, fish
collection costs (US$25-50) and freezing and storage costs (less than
US$100) should be added.
2/ Frozen fish.



-7-
execution of policy are delegated to other institutions. The Department for
Tourism and Foreign Investment (DTFI) handles negotiations and arrangements
with private foreign companies. MFC is in charge of a small fish collection
operation; it is executing a project funded by the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (KFAED) to expand its fish collection activities (para
2.06). STO, the proposed implementing agency for the project discussed in
this report is the sole exporter of dried skipjack. The office of the Presi-
dent is also involved in main policy issues.
1.20    Although many entities are involved in planning and execution of fish
policy, MOF is responsible for coordination and guidance. Making decisions
requires consultation time, but the process reflects the Maldivian desire to
reach a consensus on issues. Close coordination with the National Planning
Agency (NPA) and the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) is needed for
fisheries policy to conform to general development objectives. Informal
contacts play an important role in the small government and allow the coor-
dination and consultation process to operate smoothly. In practice, a
limited number of people in various agencies determine fishery policy.
II. GOVERNMENT FISHERIES POLICY AND STRATEGY FOR DEVELOPMENT
Recent Developments
2.01    Prior to 1972, Maldives fishing sector showed little change.  The
country's fleet of sailing fishing vessels produced mostly tuna traditionally
processed for export to Sri Lanka as a salted, smoked and dried product, and
fresh tuna for local consumption. Starting in 1972, as demand in Sri Lanka
weakened, GOM was forced to contract with foreign companies for export of
frozen tuna to maintain foreign exchange earnings. Simultaneously, a
mechanization program for the country's fishing fleet was started. Ini-
tially, fisheries development and policy was formulated through ad hoc deci-
sions. More recently however, GOM has adopted broad policy objectives, which
it reviews regularly.
2.02    The objectives for fishery policy are to: (i)  maintain and expand
fish production; (ii) maintain export channels for fish; and (iii) distribute
the benefits of fishing as equitably as possible, given technical constraints
and historical relationships. These objectives show Maldives' interest in
maintaining an export oriented fishing sector to provide foreign exchange to
pay for imports of goods, essential foodstuffs in particular. Imports of
goods and services showed a growth of 43% annually between 1977 and 1981 and
a substantial growth is expected to continue. Although tourism has taken
over as the prime source of foreign exchange for the country, financing 45%
of imports in 1981, fish exports still paid for 35%, compared to 48% in 1977.
Foreign exchange earnings will become even more important as the burden of
servicing GOM's foreign debt increases, starting about 1985.



-81-
The First IDA Fisheries Project
2.03    The Credit for the first fisheries project (Cr. 907-MAL) was signed
June 4, 1979 and amounted to US$3.2 million. It financed 500 marine diesel
engines for mechanization of fishing vessels, 5 engine maintenance and repair
centers, 33 navigation lights and 40 buoys. The project, after some initial
procurement delays, is being successfully executed. About 325 of the 500
engines have been installed. The remaining engines are expected to be
installed by late 1983. Seven navigation light towers have been installed,
out of a first order of 12; the remaining 21 light towers are currently being
procured. The maintenance and repair centers are being constructed. The
UNDP financed technical assistance component has been almost completed,
having provided fishermen training, a survey of sites for navigational aids,
and the design and construction of 4 "second generation" vessels and a "long
range" vessel.
2.04    The impact of the project and other bilateral mechanization projects,
which financed 750 engines prior to the. IDA project, has been substantial.
Mechanized vessels have proven to be much more efficient than sailing ves-
sels. Annual catches per vessel more than tripled from about 10 MT to about
35 MT, while income substantially increased over those of sailing vessels.
Although sailing pole and line vessels have substantially reduced fishing
operations, the mechanization program has prevented the Maldivian fish catch
from declining. With catches of non-mechanized vessels at a mere 22% of
total catches, the incremental catch as a result of mechanization has been in
the order of about 18,500 MT (1980), of which the IDA financed engines
installed before 1981 (100) would have contributed about 20%. The slight
delays experienced in project implementation have been caused by GOM's ini-
tial unfamiliarity with Bank procedures. Implementation was also affected by
competition of other high priority projects for scarce management and labor
resources in Male, particularly with respect to installation of maintenance
and repair centers and lights. This experience indicates the need for ade-
quate management and technical resources, unstrained by othier demands, to
execute the second fishery project.
Joint Ventures with Foreign Companies
2.05    To maintain exports, GOM decided in the early seventies to diversify
its export markets by limiting its traditional dependency on one product
(dried fish) and one market (Sri Lanka). It initially concluded contracts
with three foreign companies to collect and export frozen fish from Maldives
of which one discontinued operations in 1980. When exports of traditional
fish products rapidly decreased in the late 1970s, GOM again found itself
dependent upon a few buyers, which left Maldives' exports vulnerable to
pressure on its prices. GOM then decided to develop locally owned and con-
trolled frozen fish export facilities and founded MFC. GOM realized that a
successful development of a locally owned frozen fish export industry would
require the companies to agree to maintain their operations while GOM build
up its local capabilities. The transition, planned to be smooth and gradual,
was interrupted by the drop in world market tuna prices. GOM negotiated
lower fish prices with the companies, but MNC decided to limit its exposure



-9-
towards the tuna industry and withdrew. Because MFC is experiencing manage-
ment problems, and is the executing agency for the KFAED financed project,
GOM decided to make STO responsible for fish export from the northern third
of the country.
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development Project
2.06    To augment the services of the companies, GOM approached KFAED in
1980 to finance a fish collection, freezing and export project aimed at the
rich fishing areas in the southern third of the country. Initial proposals
for the project, featuring two floating barges with refrigeration facilities
were rejected in early 1982 because they appeared too costly. The project
now comprises: (i) three combination mother vessels with refrigeration
facilities, which also would be used as reefer vessels; (ii) nine collector
vessels; (iii) three land based ice plants; and (iv) about 100 fishing ves-
sels of the design developed under the first IDA project. The project would
be executed by MFC and initially managed by expatriate staff. Maldives
Shipping Ltd (MSL) is expected to assist MFC in implementation. MFC has
recently started to procure project components.
Private Mother Vessel Operations
2.07    In addition to the KFAED project, GOM encouraged local investors to
set up the privately owned Island Enterprises, a company which operates a
number of leased mother vessels. It exports to Thailand and uses its own
mother vessels as reefers.
III. THE FISHING INDUSTRY IN THE PROJECT AREA
Project Area
3.01    The project area would consist of all seven atolls north of Kaafu
(the atoll on which Male is located) and six atolls south of Male. This area
has been chosen by GOM because of its great potential for increased fish
production, now hampered by lack of adequate fish collecting and fuel dis-
tribution services. North of M4ale fishing is highly concentrated around four
atolls (Baa, Raa, Lhaviyani and Noonu); two atolls (Haa Dhaalu and Shaviyani)
have limited fishing operations, while the northernmost atoll (Haa Aliff) has
good fishing during a short season. Although the six atolls south of Male
(South Kaafu, Alifu, Faavu, Vaavu, Dhaalu and Meemu) have relatively limited
fishing operations, they would require fuel distribution facilities; vessels
from this area frequently visit Thaa and Laamu atolls, which have excellent
fishing grounds, but are part of the project area of the KFAED financed
project. Kaafu atoll has an extensive fishery, but is excluded from the
project because most of its landings are marketed in Male and the tourist
islands, and it has adequate fuel supply.
3.02    In the project area north and south of Male about 575 mechanized
vessels are currently registered, of which an estimated 175 regularly fish.
By the end of 1983 the numbers are expected to increase to 700 of which 220
would fish full-time. In 1980 the total catch in the project area north of



-'10-
Male was about 14,000 MT of which 80% was tuna.  Mechanized vessels caught
about 82% of the total catch. South of Male the total catch amounted to
7,000 MT of which about 60% was caught by mechanized vessels.
3.03    Lack of fuel distribution and. fish collection facilities are the
major reasons for the low percentage of fishing vessels fishing full time.
The northern part of the country had substantial fish collection facilities
before 1980, when HOKO and MNC both collected fish and distributed fuel.
With the departure of HOKO to the southern third of the country, collection
and fuel distribution facilities became limited to areas with heavy fishing
close to the cannery, and fishing operations in many other areas were
reduced. MFC and Island Enterprises collect fish in the area south of Male,
but operations so far have been relatively small.
3.04    The project target group would comprise that segment of the popula-
tion which is dependent upon fishing and allied activities for most of their
income. An estimated 7,000 fishermen in the atolls north of Male and 1,000
fishermen using mechanized fishing vessels south of Male would benefit
directly from the project. With their dependents (24,000) the target group
comprises about 50% of the entire population in the project area. The
average annual income of crew members of mechanized and non-mechanized ves-
sels is currently about US$130 and US$75, respectively. Vessel owners, who
usually operate their vessels, annually earn about US$500 (mechanized ves-
sels) and US$180 (non-mechanized vessels). The annual average income
individual crew members of small fishing vessels ranges from US$25 to over
US$100.
Existing Infrastructure
3.05    In the project area north of Hale, STO now operates the 15 MT/day
tuna cannery located on Felivaru in Lhaviyani atoll. The facility has one
canning line, and has auxiliary fish freezing facilities (10 MT/day) and cold
storage space (300 MT). The cannery is supplied by four collector vessels,
each with 5-8 MT carrying capacity, which use ice from a 7 MT/day ice plant.
The condition of the plant (with exce!ption of ice machine, freezer and water
supply system) is reasonable, and the cannery produces a good quality
product. Throughput has been often constrained due to lack of raw material
caused by lack of adequate fish collection services. The plant includes some
fuel storage facilities, a reverse osmosis plant for fresh water, a power
plant and a workshop. The island has a 500 m long jetty, which is in
reasonable condition, except for the jetty-head, which needs replacement.
Plant staff and workers, who have been extensively trained by MNC, are of
high quality. They are housed on the island. GOM is currently reviewing the
need to upgrade and expand the canning plant with assistance of the Islamic
Development Bank.
Fuel Storage and Distribution
3.06    Prior to 1972, Male was the only island which stored and used fuel,
mainly for electricity generation. With the increase of the number of
mechanized vessels, fuel distribution became necessary and initially GOM
asked the foreign companies to supply and distribute fuel. Until recently



-11-
these cotapanies were the main suppliers of fuel outside .Male.  However, their
role has been controversial; fuel was distributed at cost, but scarce, and
often given only to fishiing vessels delivering fish.  Demand soon exceeded
the companies' storage capacity, and fuel has often been rationed to quan-
tities barely sufficient for a short one day fishing trip. This limited the
radius of vessel operations and the willingness of fishermen to go fishing
when prospects were less than excellent. Vessels visited Male frequently to
buy fuel. Some fuel is transported in drums from Male.
3.07    GOM recognized the constraints imaposed on fishing by the lack of
fuel, and the need for improved fuel distribution facilities. Starting in
1979, it has set up a chain of about 150 fuel tanks of 3,600 liters capacity
throughout the archipelago. The tanks were constructed by the Maldives
Transport and Contracting Company (t4TCC), which also constructed a 80 MT
steel fuel tanker to supply fuel from Male's existing 4,500 MT storage tanks
to the island tanks. The system's main drawback is that tank and tanker
capacities are not adequate to meet local demand. The system, operated on a
temporary basis by MTCC, currently provides fuel to the central part of the
country, and occasionally the tanker sells fuel north of Male.
3.08    The STO is in charge of fuel purchases of GOM abroad and sales in
Male. Prices for fuel in Male currently include a 10% tax and an 18% profit
margin. Outside Male no tax is levied on fuel used by fishing vessels. The
STO buys fuel from Singapore; shipments usually reach Male in tankers of
about 4,000 GRT capacity. Tankers bring both diesel fuel and aviation fuel;
the latter being stored in tanks on Hulule, the airport island.
The Transportation Sector
3.09    For centuries transport of goods and people has been by special
sailing vessels and fishing vessels. There is little traffic among the
atolls other than to and from Male.  Basic commodities such as rice, wheat
flour, sugar, diesel fuel, kerosene and building materials are first imported
to Male, and then distributed to the other atolls. The reverse cargo flow
consists of firewood, coconuts, salted, dried and smoked fish, limestone and
fruits. The present Male-to-atolls traffic, excluding fuel, is estimated at
about 13,000 MT annually; atolls-to-Male traffic at 23,000 MT. Total annual
passenger trips are estimated at 50,000.
3.10    Transport vessels are about the same size as fishing vessels but have
different hull shapes and sail arrangements. They mainly operate to the
northern and central parts of the country; few of them have been mechanized.
Transport to the remaote southern atolls is mainly by about ten diesel powered
vessels each with an average capacity of 25 MT cargo and 100 passengers.
These larger vessels have less difficulty crossing the 60-mile wide
One-and-a-Half degree channel. Currently, demand for cargo transport exceeds
the capacity of the transport vessel fleet, so that fishing vessels,
mechanized and non-mechanized, are increasingly used for transport services.
Demand for cargo services has benefited many vessel owners in areas with
limited fishing opportunities, fresh fish collection services, and fuel



-12-
supply. They augment their earnings by providing part time transport serv-
ices. Many sailing fishing vessels are used full-time for transport. Traf-
fic forecasts predict a 3% annual growth for cargo and 2.8% for passengers.
3.11    The Asian Development Bank (ADB) currently finances a project which
introduces two combined cargo passenger vessels of about 75 tons. These
vessels would provide regular country-wide transport services, and are
expected to encourage production of agricultural products for the Male
market.
3.12    The state-owned MSL provides the only regular sea link between the
port of Male and the rest of the world, and carries almost all of the
country's imports. In addition, foreign refrigerated reefer vessels are
employed for the export of frozen fish. The MSL's most frequent connection
is with Singapore. Maldivian trade represents a small portion of MSL opera-
tions, which are substantial and extend to Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Identification and Preparation
4.01    GOM and IDA have held a continuing dialogue on fishery policy and
future IDA financing during supervision of the first fishery project. IDA
assisted GOM in identifying the proposed second project in August 1980. The
project was prepared in September 1981, with assistance of an IDA mission,
with funds provided by UNDP.
Project Objectives and Rationale
4.02    The main objectives of the project would be to help GOM:
(i) expand the fisheries sector infrastructure to enhance
productivity of the fishing fleet;
(ii) facilitate the current fish pricing system to become
more effective in promoting increased production;
(iii) develop new markets for frozen fish exports; and
(iv) strengthen the diesel fuel distribution system.
For these purposes, the project would finance investments in fish collection
and storage and fuel oil distribution facilities, the lack of which greatly
hampers mechanized fishing operations. Such facilities would assist GOM in
enhancing the effectiveness of the current process in whiclh fish prices paid
to the fishermen are being determined. The northern third of the country is
currently most deficient in fish collection facilities, while fuel distribu-
tion needs improvement nationwide. The proposed KFAED financed project would
provide fuel distribution and fish collection services augnenting existing
private operations and satisfying infrastructure requirements for the south.



-13-
The project facilities would make it possible to expand fish collection north
of Male, and improve fuel distribution in the northern and central parts of
the country. In planning to ensure effective operation of project
facilities, GOM, through its Fishery Advisory Board, would continue to
improve its review of the relative competitiveness of fishing operations,
aimed at timely adjustment of fish prices, and make rational decisions on the
role of the sector in providing employment, export earnings and Government
revenue.
General Description
4.03    To help achieve the project objectives, the following would be
financed under the project:
(i) a refrigeration complex at Felivaru island consisting of a
25 MT/day ice plant with ice storage capacity of 150 MT, and
a 40 MT/day fish freezer and 750 MT cold storage;
(ii) a fleet of four fish collector vessels to enable STO
to collect fish in the project area and deliver to the
refrigeration complex;
(iii) fuel distribution facilities, consisting of a 1,200 MT bulk
fuel storage at Felivaru, and a network of 11 small fuel tanks
located at various atolls supported by two 100 MT tankers;
(iv) a fleet of twenty fishing vessels of two improved designs to be
initially owned and operated by STO to carry out inshore
and distant water fishing;
(v) infrastructure required for the above, consisting of water
collection/storage facilities, an electric power generating unit,
improvement of the fish landing jetty, a slipway, a barge
load-out, two barges, a transport vessel, a workshop and staff
living quarters; and
(vi) technical assistance for (a) preparation of detailed design of
some project facilities, procurement, and supervision of the
construction work, (b) management of project facilities after
construction implementation, (c) training of local staff in
management and technical subjects, and (d) preparation of a
follow-up project.
4.04    The project facilities would expand the inadequate fish collection
and fuel distribution services currently available to the fishing fleet
operating in the project area. The refrigeration complex has been situated
at Felivaru because of: (i) its central location in the area close to well
populated islands and excellent fishing grounds; (ii) its well protected
landing facility and deep water at the end of the jetty; and (iii) the
ability of the canning plant to share its highly trained support staff and
some existing infrastructure with the project. However, since the canning
plant has no excess ice and water supply, and has old power generators,



-14-
project facilities would be completely self-supporting. Proper handling of
harvested fish requires a regular supply of ice and a fleet of well organized
collector vessels to deliver ice to fishing vessels and to pick up procured
fish for transport to the project's fish freezing plant. The project would
initiate the use of locally constructed fish boxes on existing fishing ves-
sels to improve the quality of fish. A system of fuel distribution
facilities is needed to provide the fishing fleet with an adequate supply of
fuel. To make it possible to harvest fish at distant, hitherto lightly
exploited fishing grounds and inshore areas, it would be highly desirable to
deploy a new fleet of distant water fishing vessels which have been designed
under the ongoing first project. To service these project facilities, the
following investments in infrastructure would be essential: an expansion of
the capacity of the existing jetty to facilitate loading of ice bound for
fishing vessels and unloading of fish from collector vessels, a slipway to
service the various vessels, an electric power generating unit for the
project shore facilities and staff living quarters. In addition, substantial
technical assistance would be necessary to help GOM: (i) prepare and execute
detailed design of the infrastructure components; (ii) assist GOM with
procurement; (iii) supervise construction of the refrigeration complex, oil
tanks and infrastructure; (iv) manage project facilities for a period of
three years, (v) train local staff in management and technical skills and
(vi) identify and prepare a follow-up project.
Detailed Features
4.05    Refrigeration Complex.  The refrigeration complex would comprise a
750 MT cold store, 35 MT bufferstore, 40 MT/day brine freezer, 25 MT/day
block ice plant and 150 MT ice storage. With about 245 fishing vessels
expected to operate full time in the project area in which the project entity
would procure and collect fish (Baa, BRaa, Noonu, Lhaviyani and Haa Aliff
atolls) (Annex 2, para 3), annual catches at full development are estimated
at about 14,600 MT, of which 2,000 LMT would be locally consumed, 5,700 MT
frozen for export, 3,500 MT canned and the rest dried and salted. The
refrigeration complex would on average handle a throughput of 6,000 MT,
although capacity could be expanded irl years with abundant supplies. The
capacities of the freezer and the cold storage have been based on projected
maximum fish collection requirements detailed in Annex 2, Table 1 and take
account of the existing 300 MT cold storage. Ice produced by the complex
would be used by fishing vessels and collector vessels to preserve fish in
their holds. At full development, the project collector vessels would
require about 20 MT/day. In addition, the fishing fleet operated by the
project entity (20 vessels) would use about 3 MT/day. The project would
provide insulated boxes to assist fishing vessels preserve their catch in
ice. These boxes, to be developed by STO, would be of a design acceptable to
fishermen and suitable for local construction. Use of these boxes would
improve the quality of fish landings and facilitate higher fish prices,
particularly for fish destined for direct human consumption. Expected fluc-
tuations in demand for ice would be stLbstantial, and necessitate a large (150
MT) ice storage.  The plant would be able to produce ice from fresh as well
as brackish water. To enable the project to purchase all fish offered by
fishermen, a concrete drying platform and brine tank would be provided to
process fish not suitable for freezing.



-15-
4.06    Collector Vessels.  The project fleet of collector vessels would
consist of two 10 MT and two 5 MT collector vessels, which would complement
the existing fleet of four collector vessels with a combined capacity of 24
MT. The combined fleet would collect fish from five to eight collection
stations, each vessel making mostly one-day trips, except during the off
season when it may stay up to two nights on the fishing grounds. The vessels
would store the procured fish in insulated holds containing ice-cooled
seawater. The combined fleet would have a collection capacity of 54 MT/day
(Annex 2, para 8) which would be adequate to handle a projected 6,750 MT of
fish per year. The combined capacity of the canning plant and the project
refrigeration complex would be 9,500 MT annually, of which 2,000 MT would be
landed directly by fishing vessels at the plant, while 750 MT would come from
STO's existing collection station at Haa Aliff. The four project collector
vessels would supply about 4,000 MT to the project plant.
4.07    Fuel Storage and Distribution Facilities.  The project would provide:
(i) a network of 11 small fuel storage units on the 14 atolls north of Thaa
atoll, (Haa Dhaalu and North Kaafu have adequate capacity already installed
and Felivaru island at Lhaviyani atoll would be the site for the bulk storage
tanks); (ii) two steel tankers, each with a 95,000 liter working cargo
capacity, capable of operating under Indian Ocean monsoon conditions, to
distribute fuel from Male and Felivaru; and (iii) two bulk storage tanks with
a total capacity of 1.6 million liters installed at Felivaru, to provide bulk
storage for distribution to the fishing fleet in the project area, the
refrigeration complex and canning plant. The small storage tanks would be
standard 15,000 liter tanks of steel or polyester and be installed in groups
of up to four on islands with the highest density of vessels (Annex 3). The
bulk tanks would be supplied with fuel from ocean going tankers presently
supplying fuel to Male, which would detour to Felivaru. The project fuel
distribution facilities would be adequate to handle the estimated 3.2 million
liters of fuel required annually by the about 700 vessels expected to operate
in the area in which fuel would be distributed by the project. Once project
fuel distribution facilities are completed, none of the vessels would be more
than two hours steaming from a tank. With the KFAED financed fisheries
project expected to take care of fuel distribution in the southern third of
the country, the project facilities would fill the remaining deficiency in
the fuel distribution system of Maldives.
4.08    Fishing Vessels.  The 20 project fishing vessels would be of designs
developed with technical assistance provided under the first project. The
main purposes of the vessels would be to enable Maldives to start exploiting
distant fishing grounds beyond the reach of traditional fishing vessels and
to help improve the quality of landed fish. To coordinate this first attempt
to operate a fleet of vessels capable of distant water fishing, the project
vessels would initially be owned and operated by STO, but would be turned
over to private operators as soon as practicable. GOM is currently financing
fishing vessels under the KFAED financed project, and is reviewing ownership
transfer arrangements. STO prefers to sell the vessels directly but will
conduct some experiments with leasing, cooperative ownership and
hire-purchase. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that on the basis



-16-
of the outcome of these experiments, STO will prepare a plan, satisfactory to
IDA, for transfer of the vessels to private operators.
4.09    Infrastructure.
(i) Water Supply.  A rainwater colLection/storage facility at
Felivaru, to collect about 4,700 MT of rainwater arLnually.
It would have a 500 MT storage and a standby 10 MT/day
reverse osmosis plant to supply water to the refrigeration
complex at times of occasional fresh water shortage.   The
project would also use limited quantities of seawater in
its ice plant and for cooling purposes. Felivaru island has a
small freshwater lens floating on top of its brackish ground-
water resources during the monsoon season. The lens disappears
during long draughts, so that groundwater can be used only as
an auxilliary source of fresh water. Rainfall records indicate
limited annual variability in total rainfall, but large dif-
ferences in monthly data from year to year.
(ii) Electric Power Generating Unit. A power generating unit con-
sisting of three 110 KVA generators and a 35 KVA standby would
meet the power requirements of the project complex, estimated
at 215 KVA at peak capacity.
(iii) Landing Jetty.  Felivaru currently has a coral built landing
jetty about 500 m long. The jetty needs some minor repairs;
the jetty head is in a bad state of repair and requires
replacement. The new jetty head would accommodate three col-
lector vessels and about eight fishing vessels simultaneously.
The jetty is exposed to wave action from the east generated
within the atoll, giving a max:imum significant wave height of
up to 2 m. Design of the jetty head has taken into consider-
ation wave action and possible littoral drift. Collector
vessels are expected to land their cargo late in the evening,
and direct landings of fishing vessels are likely to be con-
centrated in the late afternoon. The jetty would provide a
separate landing place for fishing vessels. Discharging of
fuel into the main storage tanks at Felivaru, and loading of
the project's fuel distribution tankers would be by floating
hose, the system currently in uise. A jetty capable of mooring
the tankers alongside would be much more expensive without
being more useful. Export of f-rozen fish from the complex
would be by chartered ocean-going refrigerated reefer vessels
of up to 2,500 GRT. Loading oif frozen fish on board the reefer
vessel anchored off Felivaru would be by two self-propelled
flat bottom 20 MT barges which would, at a special loading
ramp, load the frozen fish in t:he containers in which the fish
is stored in the cold storage. This would allow a forklift
truck to drive directly onto the barge. The containers would
have slings inside facilitating the reefer to load the fish
with its own gear, leaving the containers on the baLrge.



-17-
(iv) Slipway. A 100 MT slipway with a workshop to service the col-
lector vessels, tankers, and other vessels, with the workshop
servicing the refrigeration complex as well.
(v) Living Quarters. Felivaru currently has adequate housing
facilities to accommodate the cannery staff. The project would
provide housing facilities (14 staff houses, a guest house,
and dormitories), for the entire project work force. It is
expected that a substantial number of workers would come in
from nearby islands. However, experience with the workers at
the cannery shows that they leave the island only during week-
ends, and that permanent facilities are required. Existing
transport facilities are inadequate for the purpose of the
project. To facilitate frequent transport of personnel to
nearby islands and to and from i4ale, the project would provide
and operate a small transport vessel to satisfy its transport
needs, able to handle small cargo (up to 500 kg) and about eight
passengers. GOH on its own might construct an airstrip on an
island close to Felivaru and initiate air service to the area
with its fleet of five small aircraft. A master plan for airstrip
construction is being finalized.
(vi) State of Engineering Design. During preparation of the project,
outline designs for civil works, including foundations were
prepared based on soil data and experiences in a similar (coral
rock and sand) environment. Tentative speciEications and bills
of quantities were completed on the basis of a worst case
analysis. Final design of the works requires data from soil
borings, a further assessment of littoral drift and actual spe-
cifications of the refrigeration plant for plant foundations.
The character of the soil makes any large deviations from assump-
tions made during preparation unlikely. Detailed design of the
civil engineering components will start January 1, 1983 and be
completed in about four months (para 4.10(iv)). Performance spe-
cifications for the refrigeration plant and collector vessels
have been finalized. Fishing vessels would be built on the
basis of designs prepared and tested under IDA's First Fisheries
Project.
4.10    Technical Assistance.
(i) Local Training. To staff the project, STO has to attract
skilled individuals to operate the refrigeration complex,
collector vessels, and tankers. About 60 skilled and unskilled
staff of the cannery, mainly from its maintenance and vessel
operations' departments, would join the project. Maldives is
short of skilled technicians, and only a limited number might
be readily available from outside Felivaru. The STO has set up
a recruitment and training program for positions for which no
qualified individuals can be readily identified at present.
Training would be mainly conducted by the Vocational Training
Center (VTC). VTC would train refrigeration technicians,



-18-
mechanics, electricians, weldeirs and sheet metal workers. The
project would provide funds to strengthen VTC's staff, facilitate
training of trainees from outside Male by providing boarding
facilities and on-the-job training, and upgrade VTC training
equipment. The project would employ an expatriate training
specialist for a period of 12 months prior to and during start
up of the project, to assist GOM in preparing and executing
the training program, and conduct on-the-job training.  The
training consultant would be assisted by two refrigeration
and maintenance specialists to be provided under the turnkey
contract for the refrigeration plant (para 4.14). Training of
staff of the fuel distribution division would be limited to
personnel handling the administration of fuel sales from the
smaller tanks. A special training course would provide them
with skills to handle fuel sales.
(ii) Foreign Training.  The shortage of experienced staL-f for man-
agerial positions is acute.  The demand for managers resulting
from the hotel boom, expansion of fish collection and storage
facilities under the KFAED project and the recent change of
management of the cannery, exceeds the country's resources.
Therefore, the project would provide for 36 man-months of
training for three line managers of the proposed refrigera-
tion complex at similar fish collection and freezing facil-
ities abroad.
(iii) STO would need assistance to develop and start up the refrigera-
tion complex and fuel distribution facilities into efficient
operations. To this end STO would enter into a management
contract with an expatriate management team.  The team would
be recruited from a consultancy firm or a commercial company
involved in fish processing and marketing. They would acquaint
themselves with the operations during construction, and start
their assignment about six months prior to completion of the
refrigeration complex. Their responsibility would not include
the cannery, which would continue to operate as a separate
division of STO. The team would likely comprise a general man-
ager, marine manager, plant manager and a commercial manager
who would report directly to the Managing Director (MD).
Management assistance would gradually be reduced to allow local
directors to take over responsibilities. Total assistance
would cover a period of about IThree-and-a-half years and com-
prise about 120 man-months. A similar arrangement would apply
to STO's fuel distribution scheme, where they would seek the
assistance of a fuel distribution manager to start up operations.
He would be recruited at least 6 months prior to completion of
the fuel distribution facilities for a period of 18 months.
(iv) Preparation of Detailed Design and Supervision of Project
Implementation. STO has recruited a consulting firm, which
will start its work by January 1, 1983 to assist in preparing
detailed design and specifications of the civil works of the



-19-
project, providing performance specifications for fuel tankers
and barges, organizing procurement and preparing a detailed
implementation schedule. During implementation the firm
would help STO supervise project execution, verify work per-
formed, and certify payments due for all works included in
the project. An estimated 42 man-months would be required for
design and supervision services.
(v) Preparation of a Follow-up Project. To assist GOM in preparing
a follow-up investment project, funding of 12 man-months would
be provided. Preparation would be done by consultants recruited
by GOM. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of all consultants listed above would be satisfactory to
the borrower and IDA.
Cost Estimates
4.11    Detailed cost estimates for the project were prepared in September,
1981 and revised in April, 1982. Physical contingencies of 20% for civil
works and 10% for equipment, vessels and technical assistance have been
provided. Price contingencies for foreign expenditures have been estimated
at 8.0% for 1982-1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985 and 6.0% for 1986. Price
contingencies for local costs were estimated at 12% for 1983, 10% for 1984
and 8% thereafter. Investments of GOM are free of duties and taxes.
4.12    Detailed cost estimates, based on implementation of the project over
a six-year period, of which the last three years are limited to financing of
a management contract, are given in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2 and in the
project files. The following table summarizes the costs:
Project Costs
Z Foreign
Category                Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--- (Rf million)----  --(US$ million) /a---
Refrigeration Complex   2.0    18.2    20.2    0.3        2.6     2.9       90
Collector Vessels          -     8.5      8.5      -      1.2     1.2      100
Fuel Distribution        0.2     5.5      5.7    0.0      0.8     0.8       96
Fishing Vessels          0.5     2.1      2.6    0.1      0.3     0.4       81
Infrastructure           0.5     9.2      9.7    0.1      1.3     1.4       94
Technical Assistance    1.2    14.0    15.2    0.2        2.0     2.2       92
Total Base Costs         4.5    57.5    61.9    0.6       8.2     8.8       93
Physical Contingencies  0.5      7.0      7.5    0.1      1.0     1.1       93
Price Contingencies      1.6    17.5    19.1    0.2       2.5     2.7       93
Total Project Costs      6.6    81.9    88.5    0.9    11.7    12.6         93
/a Calculated at Rf 7.00 to US$1.00, and rounded.



-20-
Of total project costs of US$12.6 million, foreign costs amount to 93%.
Local costs are largely limited to labor costs.
4.13    Cost estimates for the refrigeration plant are based on CIF prices
and include erection costs. The costs of civil engineering work are based on
preliminary designs. Vessel costs are based on estimated C[EF prices, fishing
vessel costs on current boat building costs in the country. The costs of
technical assistance and the management contract have been estimated on the
basis of comparable services. Average lnan month rates for these services
are about US$9,200. These rates include all costs except for the costs of
living quarters which would be provided free of charge by STrO to long term
consultants. A 10% physical contingency has been applied to all technical
and management assistance to reflect that withdrawal of foreign expertise
will depend on the pace of transfer of know-how.
Financing
4.14    An IDA credit of US$5.0 million would finance infrastructure works
and technical assistance; 100% of foreign exchange costs and the local costs
of technical assistance, or about 40% of total project costs. The Interna-
tional Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) loan of US$2.0 million equiv-
alent would finance collector and fishing vessels; 100% of foreign costs or
16% of total project costs. A loan of the OPEC Fund for International
Development of US$0.9 million equivalent would finance 75% of the foreign
costs of the oil distribution component, or about 7% of total project costs,
while GOM would finance US$0.3 million foreign exchange and US$0.1 million
local costs. The OPEC and IFAD loans wDuld be administered by IDA. The
Norwegian Government (NG) would provide a grant of US$4.1 million equivalent
to finance 100% of foreign and local costs of the turnkey contract for the
refrigeration plant, or about 32% of total project costs. The Government of
Maldives would provide US$0.6 million equivalent of the remaining local and
foreign costs or about 5% of total project costs.  The financing plan is
summarized below:
Financing Plan
(US$ million) /a
GOM           NG     OPEC  IFAD  I_DA              Total
LC  FX  T1  LC  FX  Tl   FX   FX  LC  IX  T1  LC   FX   Tl
Refrigeration Plant  -   -   -  0.4 3.7 4.1   -    -    -   -   -  0.4  3.7  4.1
Collector Vessels    -   -   -   -   -   -    -   1.6   -   -   -   -   1.6  1.6
Fuel Distribution   0.1 0.3 0.4  -   -   -   0.9   -    -   -   -  0.1  1.2  1.3
Fishing Vessels      0.1  -  0.1  -   -   -    -   0.4   -   -   -  0.1  0.4  0.5
Infrastructure       0.1  -  0.1  -   -   -    -    -    -  1.9 1.9 0.1  1.9  2.0
Technical Assistance -   -   -   -   -   -    -    -   0.2 2.9 3.1 0.2  2.9  3.1
Total                0.3 0.3 0.6 0.4 3.7 4.1  0.9  2.0  0.2 4.8 5.0 0.9 11.7 12.6
/a All figures rounded.



-21-
In view of the overriding importance of the refrigeration complex, for which
the NG has shown an interest in parallel financing, and the vessels and fuel
distribution system, for which IFAD and the OPEC Fund have expressed an
interest in co-financing, conclusion of the Participation Agreement between
NG and GOM for the refrigeration complex, and of Loan Agreements between GOM
and IFAD for financing of project vessels and GOM and the OPEC Fund for
financing of project fuel distribution facilities would be a condition of IDA
Credit effectiveness.
4.15    The IDA Credit to GOM would be on standard terms.  GOM would onlend
about 85% of the proceeds of IDA Credit, IFAD loan, OPEC loan and NG grant,
except those for the project technical assistance component, to STO, under a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, to be entered into. The
remaining 15% plus the costs of management assistance would be provided by
GOM as equity to STO. The onlending interest rate would be 13% per annum,
repayment would be over 15 years with 5 years grace, and GOM would bear the
foreign exchange risk. Inflation in Maldives over the past four years has
averaged 20% per annum, and the inflation rate projected for the next four
years is about 10%. Maldives open economy imports most of its inflation,
and with projections for food, fuel and manufactured goods prices showing
substantially lower rates of increase compared to the past few years, infla-
tion is expected to subside considerably. The proposed onlending rate of 13%
to STO, therefore, would be positive. GOM would recover the costs of the
project by adopting pricing policies for fish and fuel (paras 5.11 and 5.15)
which would allow STO to repay the loans and obtain an adequate return on
equity. The costs of technical assistance would be borne by STO in the form
of GOM equity in STO, (management contract), or directly by GOM (training,
design and procurement, project preparation). The finalization of a satis-
factory subsidiary loan agreement between GOM and STO covering IDA Credit,
IFAD and OPEC loans and NG grant would be a condition of Credit effective-
ness.
Procurement
4.16    The refrigeration complex, comprising plant and equipment with excep-
tion of the building foundations, would be parallel financed by NG and
procured according to its rules. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from GOM that IDA would be allowed to comment on the actual
specifications of the proposed plant and construction contracts prior to
contract award. The civil works included in the IDA financed component of
the project comprising plant foundations, housing, a slipway, jetty repair
and extension and rainwater collection and storage facilities would cost
US$2.0 million. The civil works included in the OPEC Fund financed component
of the project comprising fuel tanks, foundations and piping would cost about
US$0.5 million. Although relatively small, the project civil works would
exceed the capabilities of the local construction industry and would be
procured as a package through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Some minor items (installation of small
fuel tanks, local housing) costing less than US$50,000, whose aggregate value
would not exceed US$300,000, would however be procured through local bidding
procedures which are acceptable to IDA. The two tankers financed by the OPEC
Fund would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. The



-22-
IFAD financed component would include collector vessels, lLghters and a
transport vessel, costing US$1.6 million. The procurement of these items
would be through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. The fishing vessels
included in the IFAD financed component costing about US$0. 5 million would
not be suitable for ICB and would be constructed by private boat building
crews using the Government's local procurement procedures. The consultants
and expatriate project staff to be financed by IDA (US$3.2 million) would be
recruited internationally.
Disbursement
4.17    Disbursement under the proposed IDA Credit, IFAD loan and OPEC Fund
loan would cover:
IDA         (a)  90% of expenditures for civil works (US$2.0 million);
(b)  100% of expenditures on technical assistance
(US$3.2 million) with retroactive financing up
to US$250,000 for preparation of detailed design
of the project;
IFAD         (c)  100% of expenditures for collector and allied
vessels (US$1.6 million);
(d) 80% of expenditures for fishing vessels (US$0.5
million);
OPEC Fund   (e)  90% of expenditures for fuel oil storage tanks
(US$0.5 million); and
(f) 60% of expenditures for fuel oil tankers (US$0.7
million).
4.18    Disbursements for all items, except for civil works expenditures
(para 4.17(a)) involving costs of contracts amounting to less than US$50,000,
would be made against full documentation. Full documentation for civil works
expenditures would include a copy of certification of commissioning signed by
the supervising engineer on behalf of STO, in addition to the contractor's
bills and evidence of payment. Withdrawal applications for civil works
carried out under contracts smaller than US$50,000 would be reimbursed
against statements of expenditures (SOE) certified by the supervising
engineer and STO. The supporting documentation for disbursements made
against SOEs would be retained by STO and made available for inspection by
the Bank Group Staff on request. The expenditures reimbursed against SOE
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group (para 5.19). A schedule of anticipated disbursements of IDA Credit,
IFAD loan and OPEC Fund loan is shown in Annex 5. Up to US$0.25 million
would be allowed for retroactive financing of eligible detailed design and
preparation of procurement documents on account of payments made after
October 1, 1982. The disbursement forecast has been prepared taking into
account IDA's experience with the first fisheries project, which disbursed
69% after three years and is expected to be fully disbursed after three and



-23-
a half years. The second project would completely disburse in six years.
The region-wide disbursement profile for fishing and forestry projects shows
only 46.7% of total disbursements in a 3-year period and full disbursement
after 7.5 years, and therefore does not fit this project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
State Trading Organization
5.01    The State Trading Organization (STO), an autonomous business entity
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry for Trade and Industry (MTI), would
be the project executing agency. STO would coordinate project activities and
be responsible for construction and operation of project fish collection,
freezing and marketing facilities, fuel distribution facilities and fishing
vessels. STO is presently the principal trading business arm of GOM. It
imports about 75% of the country's merchandise imports, and supplies most of
the nation's requirements of basic food items, other essentials such as
medicine, baby food and petroleum products. STO holds a 51% share in two
garment factories at Gan island; both of these factories are joint ventures
with Hong Kong based companies. It also operates, as a separate division,
the former MNC cannery. Its financial assets are largely in the form of
stocks of goods. Its capital base of Rf 65 million at December 31, 1981
(US$9.3 million) is strong compared to reported liabilities, largely in the
form of US dollar denominated debts of about US$400,000. Profits in 1981
amounted to Rf 18.8 million on a turnover of Rf 226.4 million (of which
about Rf 120 million involved foreign exchange transactions). Purchases of
goods grew from Rf 57.8 million in 1979 to Rf 101.6 million in 1980 and Rf
93.6 million in 1981. STO has been consistently profitable in the past three
years (Annex 9, Table 1).
5.02    STO has been selected to implement all the components of the project,
except the preparation of a follow-up project, because of its strong finan-
cial position, managerial strength and its experience in trading and setting
up new activities as, lately, in manufacturing. This choice also strongly
reflects the current limited implementation capacity of MFC, which is fully
occupied with implementation of the KFAED financed project, and its existing
fish collection operations. Although its management and organization are
being strengthened, MFC is in no position to implement two major investment
projects at the same time, as it lacks managerial, technical and administra-
tive staff and expertise to handle such workload. STO has been responsible
for fuel imports, and its involvement in project fuel distribution would be
in line with its general trading operations. MTCC, which currently dis-
tributes small quantities of fuel, has only limited experience in setting
up and handling a small distribution network. MTCC's main responsibility is
conducting harbor operations at Male, while it also operates transport ves-
sels and is involved in construction work. Therefore it would relinquish its
activities and assets (island fuel tanks and one tanker) to STO. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached that GOM would cause MTCC to hand
over its fuel distribution system to STO by August 31, 1983. No private
parties have expressed an interest in investing in fuel distribution.



-24-
Project Organization
5.03    STO would set up a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by a
Project Director (PD) reporting directly to the Managing Director (MD) of
STO. STO designated the PD prior to negotiations. The PD, who would be
assisted by staff and project consultants, would be responsible for planning
and supervision of procurement of goods and services financed under the
project and for coordination of the activities of project consultants. In
addition, STO would set up two new divisions, namely, a Fish Marketing Divi-
sion and a Fuel Distribution Division, reporting directly to the MD. The
Fish Marketing Division would also be headed by the PD. Thes Fuel Distribu-
tion Division would have a manager reporting directly to the MD.  Organiza-
tion charts of these divisions (Charts 23353 and 23354) haves been accepted by
STO. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that STO would establish a
Fish Marketing Division responsible for collection, freezing and marketing of
fish and a separate Fuel Distribution Division by May 31, 1983.
5.04    PIU would be responsible for planning and day-to-day project
implementation. PIU would be assisted by the consultants riesponsible for
detailed design of the civil engineering part of the project, procurement and
implementation supervision, the training consultant, and two technical
specialists provided under the turnkey contract for the refrigeration com-
plex.  PIU would employ administrative staff to handle accounts and procure-
ment. PIU would thus (i) manage project funds provided by GOM; (ii) prepare
detailed annual construction work programs; (iii) supervise recruitment and
training programs; (iv) review and approve designs, tender documents, bid
evaluations and contracts prepared by the consultants; (v) supervise con-
struction; (vi) co-sign completion certificates for individual project com-
ponents; (vii) arrange construction of fishing vessels for ithe project;
(viii) select skippers for project fishing vessels in cooperation with MOF;
(ix) prepare the proposal to transfer ownership of the project fishing ves-
sels from STO to fishermen; (x) engage all project consultants in consult-
ation with the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) (para 5.07);
(xi) maintain project accounts; (xii) submit disbursement reaquests; and
(xiii) prepare quarterly progress reports and a project completion report for
PCC consideration and IDA review.
5.05    The Fish Marketing Division would be responsible fo;r fish procure-
ment, refrigeration and marketing and would consist of threes sections:
Marine, Plant and Commercial.
(i) The Marine Section, maintaining a work force of about 50,
would organize fish collection, vessel maintenance and
repair and handle STO's fishing fleet. This section would
include the existing Marine Section of the cannery.
(ii) The Plant Section would operate the refrigeration com-
plex on a 24-hour basis using three shifts, with 4 line
managers, 12 supervisors and about 86 lower level plant
workers. The main shift would operate during the aEter-
noon and evening. The other shifts would be limited to



-25-
freezing and storage operations, and would not normally
conduct fish unloading and handling.
(iii) The Commercial Section would be based in Male, with one
manager and five staff, and an administrative unit at
Felivaru. It would be responsible for developing new
markets, regularly reviewing fish pricing and marketing
policies and be in coordination with STO's budget
manager.
5.06    The Fuel Distribution Division would be responsible for importing
fuel, scheduling of its own tanker fleet and organizing and monitoring fuel
distribution in the atolls. It would receive weekly reports on sales from
the atoll fuel depots by radio, and would receive the proceeds of fuel sales
through the offices of the atoll chiefs. To ensure efficiency of fuel dis-
tribution, this division would implement a country-wide fuel consumption
monitoring system. The division would consist of 1 manager, 7 clerks, 16
crew for the tankers and 11 depot supervisors.
Project Coordinating Committee
5.07    Similar to the arrangements under the first Fisheries Project, a
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) would be established to review project
progress and formulate policies and directives on project implementation.
Under the first Project, PCC has been efficient in coordinating project
activities and identifying implementation constraints. PCC would be jointly
chaired by the Minister of Fisheries and MD of STO, and would comprise the
PD, Secretary of Fisheries, Managing Director of MTCC and senior officials of
NPA, DTFI, the Department of Finance, MFC, the Ministry of Provincial Affairs
and the Public Works Department. The PD would serve as the secretary to the
committee.
5.08    PCC would meet as necessary but at least quarterly.  In particular
PCC would (i) monitor physical implementation; (ii) review implementation
bottlenecks and recommend suitable corrective actions; (iii) help formulate
policies, plans and procedures regarding fish procurement and pricing,
quality control and export; (iv) ensure coordination with other fish collec-
tion and export operations; and (v) recommend investment policies for new
vessels and gear and supporting infrastructure. Establishment of PCC with
composition and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
Training
5.09    It is unlikely that STO would be able to hire all the staff with the
necessary skills and experience to operate its two new divisions. Demand for
people with management and technical skills (particularly those required to
run the refrigeration complex) is substantial and expected to further
increase in the future. STO's hiring strategy would therefore be to: (i) use
staff available from the cannery, particularly for its Marine Section;
(ii) attract candidates with the necessary educational background and



-26-
experience for the other positions from outside Felivaru; and (iii) if satis-
factory candidates with experience cannot be found, provide adequate training
in vocational and management skills to those candidates deficient in formal
training or experience. Those staff in need of training would be recruited
well in time to complete training prior to start up of operations. A
timetable for recruitment and training has been prepared by STO. The plant
manager, commercial manager and assistant plant manager would spend nine
months to one year abroad to train at similar facilities. The vessel cap-
tains, engineers, workshops' technicians and plant maintenance supervisors
are expected to be recruited up to one year before operations start. STO
would review and adjust its training program with the help of a training
specialist who would provide the theoretical and practica'L training not
available from VTC. The training program would involve vocational training
for refrigeration technicians, engine mechanics, electriclans, welders and
sheet metal workers at VTC, and on-the-job training at the refrigeration
complex. On-the-job training would involve forklift truck and tractor
drivers, crane operators, and maintenance and repair crews, and would com-
mence up to nine months prior to completion of the refrigeration complex.
VTC is funded by the Ministry of Education and would provide tailor-made
training for the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
GOM would cause STO to provide a provisional staff list and a final proposal
for its training program acceptable to IDA for those stafif with insufficient
qualifications by August 31, 1983. The training specialist financed under
the project would assist STO in executing the training program. He would
report to the PD.  During negotiations assurances were obtained that GOM
would cause STO to: (i) engage a training specialist by June 30, 1983; and
(ii) provide a work program acceptable to IDA for the traiLning specialist
by July 31, 1983.
Management
5.10    Management Contract.  The functions of both new STO divisions during
the first few years of operation would comprise setting up efficient and
flexible organizations and developing markets for frozen f-ish products and
fuel. Since STO has limited experience with fish collectfion and refrigera-
tion operations and marketing of frozen fish, it would negotiate a management
contract with a consultancy company or a reputable fisherl"es company for a
total of about 120 man months of consualtant time. The management team would
comprise a General Manager, Marine Manaager, Plant Manager and Commercial
Manager who would report directly to STO's MD. Each team member would work
with a Maldivian Director, who would eventually take over their respective
responsibilities. The management team would from the start give the Mal-
divian Directors specific responsibilities, which over time would be
expanded. The formal responsibilities of the team would not, however, end
until completion of the contract. During negotiations agreement was obtained
that GOM would cause STO to conclude a management contract satisfactory to
IDA by August 31, 1983. The management team would start its operations on a
selective basis before project facilities have been completed, and would
continue for a period of 24 months after which the team would gradually be
reduced over a period of 12 months. The involvement of the team with the
project would cover a period of about three-and-a-half years starting during
construction. The Fuel Distribution Division would similarly conclude a



-27-
contract with a fuel distribution specialist for a period of 18 months.
During negotiations agreement was reached that GOM would cause STO to con-
clude a contract acceptable to IDA with a fuel distribution specialist by
August 31, 1983. The specialist would organize STO's fuel procurement and
distribution schedules, train fuel distributors who would manage the atoll
depots, and set up reporting and accounting procedures.
Fish Pricing Policy
5.11    The policy to determine the procurement price of fresh fish destined
for export has been the subject of a comprehensive GOM review and revision to
introduce incentives for increased production and, at the same time, improve
the competitiveness of frozen fish exports. Fresh fish for export is cur-
rently sold to the only remaining foreign company, through DTFI, while STO,
MFC and Island Enterprises export fish directly. Until early 1982, the
procurement price of fish exported by the foreign companies was determined by
the prevailing export price converted at a greatly overvalued administrative
exchange rate after allowing a profit margin for the exporting agency. The
average procurement price of fish had been some 55% less than the export
price valued at the commercial exchange rate. The amount of this implicit
tax on fresh fish more than doubled during 1978-81 to Rf 25 million, much of
whiich was used for the purpose of subsidizing domestic retail prices of basic
imported commodities, which are set in accordance with a pricing formula
based on the administrative accounting rate (US$1.00 = Rf 4.00) instead of
the commercial exchange rate (US$1.00 = Rf 7.00). This traditional system of
determining local fish prices was deficient in several ways: (i) it levied a
substantial fixed percentage tax on fish exports regardless of the ability of
the sector to pay; (ii) fish prices had virtually no relationship with fish
quality or local circumstances such as collection and handling costs;
(iii) producer prices were linked solely to the prices paid by the foreign
buyers, which did not always reflect world market prices, and failed to
reflect GOM's sector objectives and strategy; and (iv) price adjustments were
automatic and inflexible.
5.12    In April 1982, however, this automatic linkage and its implicit
taxation system was discontinued as GOM chose not to reduce the prices paid
to the fishermen in spite of the large decline in the dollar prices paid by
the foreign buyers. Average procurement prices are therefore now close to
the export price paid to DTFI at the current commercial exchange rate. 1/
The change in policy was a direct result of the establishment of the Fishery
Advisory Board, commissioned under Presidential Decree, with broad powers to
review and recommend measures related to fisheries development, including
periodic reviews of fish prices. The Board is chaired by the Minister of
Fisheries and its members include all parties which have a major interest in
fish prices, i.e., the fishermen, the Department of Finance, the Maldives
Monetary Authority, and the fish exporting companies.
1/ Prices for skipjack smaller than 2 kg were negotiated down in April 1982
from US$295 MT FOB to US$182 MT and for larger skipjack from US$475 MT to
US$270 MT.



-28-
5.13    Under the project GOM would continue improving its system to deter-
mine local prices, giving STO freedom to export fish directly. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that GOM would allow STO to adjust prices
paid to the fishermen based on fish export earnings within limits set by the
Board. The latter would regularly review prices and determine broad nation-
wide price guidelines. Extreme price levels, high or low, would adversely
affect the economy; too high prices would require subsidy for fish collection
and export operations of Government-owned enterprises and deter private and
foreign operations; too low prices would affect fish production and fish
export, reduce fishermen's incomes and hence threaten profitability of fish
collection and export operations. Prices would therefore be determined in
such a way as to give adequate long term incentives to fishermen, allow fish
collection and export operations to operate profitably and provide adequate
revenues to the Government and foreign exchange to the country. The price
determination process would be flexible, and quick to reflect changes in
circumstances. GOM would allow STO to determine procurement prices which
would reflect fish quality and other factors affecting effi,-ient operations
and adjust such prices as necessary. These arrangements would apply to STO,
while MFC and the private Maldivian fish collection operation would adopt
similar practices in the near future.
5.14    GOM would continue present arrangements of fixed term contracts and
prices with the foreign company, while DTFI would adjust prices actually paid
to the fishermen to the prevailing price level paid by other fish collection
operations.
Fuel Distribution Policy
5.15    The current system of fuel pricing, with retail prices in Male well
above those paid by fishermen in the rest of the country, has been a major
reason for GOM to ration fuel sales to fishermen, in order to avoid resale to
Male. Although the differential price system reflected GOM's objective to
increase fishing vessel profitability outside Male, it resulted in limited
fuel supplies which restricted fishing and negatively affected vessel
profitability. Fuel distribution is a service to the fishing fleet, and the
purpose of project financed fuel distribution infrastructure would be to
supply fuel without restrictions to all mechanized vessels in the project
area. In order to do so the current fuel price structure should be adjusted
and restrictions on supply lifted. GOM currently sells fue:L outside Male at
cost, including about 10% distribution costs over the CIF Male price, while
in Male prices have a 10% tax and 18% STO profit margin on top of the CIF
price.
5.16    During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOM that (i) it
would prepare a proposal acceptable to IDA for a diesel fueL price policy by
March 31, 1984, which would stipulate a uniform price for fuel distributed in
the project area and Kaafu atoll at a level consistent with full cost
recovery and yielding a reasonable margin of profit to STO; and (ii) STO
would make fuel readily available to all mechanized vessels in the project
area and Kaafu atoll on the basis of this fuel policy by February 28, 1985.



-29-
Selection of Beneficiaries for Fishing Vessel Loans
5.17    The beneficiaries for the project financed fishing vessels would be
selected jointly by STO and MOF. Beneficiaries should be:
(i) active, innovative fishermen with adequate experience;
(ii) willing to expand fishing operations in new areas and
improve efficiency of fishing;
(iii) able to satisfy the financial requirements of the project
with respect to downpayment and financial resources; and
(iv) own and operate the vessels for a minimum of four years.
MOF's extension unit would provide services to project beneficiaries and
vessel crews, giving short training courses at regular intervals to upgrade
specific aspects of operations and assist with technological problems. MOF
would give special attention to beneficiaries during the early years of
operation.
Accounts and Audits
5.18    The Auditor General's office is responsible for audits.  It has
trained auditors but none of them has been certified. Although its proce-
dures have been adequate to meet GOM's requirements, they fall short of
international auditing standards. During negotiations, an understanding was
obtained that GOM would recruit a certified accountant by August 31, 1983,
to train audit staff for an initial period of 12 months and assist the
auditor general's office in improving its auditing practices.
5.19    STO's accounting system is based on traditional local bookkeeping
practices which adequately satisfy its traditional reporting requirements,
but fall short of acceptable accounting and internal control standards.
STO's accounting system is currently being reviewed and improved by an
expatriate certified accountant. The accountant recruited by GOM (para 5.18)
would review STO's improved accounting system, and advise on its adequacy.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(i) separate accounts would be maintained by STO for project funds.
STO accounts would be regularly internally audited and would,
in addition, be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and
(ii) a copy of such annual audit reports would be sent to IDA
within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20    The responsibilities of PIU would include monitoring and synchroniz-
ing of procurement and construction of project components; monitoring of



-30-
project staff recruitment, including expatriates; designing, monitoring and
expediting the project training program and providing quarterly reports on
project progress. The statistical cell, of MOF would set up a monitoring
system for a sample of mechanized vessels to monitor vessel economics.  Since
many fishermen do not monitor costs and earnings, the cell would use
island-based enumerators, each conducting periodic interviews with one or
more vessel operators. During negotiat:ions, an understanding was obtained
that GOM would set up the monitoring system for vessel economics by
August 31, 1983.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
Production
6.01    Production of fish in the project area from all vessels is expected
to increase from a projected 12,600 MT in 1982 to 19,900 MT at full develop-
ment in 1986, which would be about 57% of the projected total production of
Maldives (35,000 MT). The higher production would result from an increase in
the number of vessels fishing and an increase of the number of days fished
per vessel. The catch of the non-mechanized fleet is expected to remain at
the current level of 5,400 MT (Annex 7, Table 2). Average fish catches per
vessel, and the number of fishing days fluctuate markedly in the project
area. In 1980, average catches per vessel ranged from 250 kg/day in Baa
atoll to 500 kg/day at Noonu. The average number of fishing days for full
time fishing boats depends on the availability of fuel and collector vessels;
in 1980 it fluctuated between 80 days in areas with highly seasonal fisheries
and limited fish collection (Haa Aliff atoll) to 220 at Lhaviyani atoll,
where vessels could land directly at the cannery. To calculate the impact of
the project on fishing, present average catches of mechanized vessels north
of Male have been assumed at 250 kg/day with 140 fishing days. South of Male
vessels would catch an average of 220 kg/day, having 120 fishing days. An
estimated 700 mechanized vessels would operate in the project area during the
first year of the project, of which an estimated 160 would fish north of Male
and 60 south of Male. The other vessels are expected to be occupied in the
tourist industry (75 vessels) and in transportation (Annex 7, Table 1). The
project infrastructure would have a positive impact on catches and the number
of fishing days, and induce a number of vessels now operating in tourism and
transport to revert back to fishing. The combined effect of adequate fuel
supply and improved fish collection is expected to increase the number of
fishing days of fishing vessels by an average 35%. 1/ Transport vessels are
expected to increase the number of trips by 25%, largely to compensate for an
expected reduction in the total number of transport vessels. In order to
maintain fishing operations in the project area at present levels during
1/ This is well in line with experiences in the project area between islands
with and without adequate facilities. In Baa atoll in 1980, for example,
the average number of days fished by vessels operating from islands with
fish collection was about 50% more than those operating from other
islands.



-31-
project implementation, it would be essential that current fish collection
and fuel distribution efforts be continued. During negotiations an under-
standing was reached with GOM that it would use its best efforts to maintain
these services at least at their current levels during construction of
project facilities.
6.02    Without the project, the number of fishing vessels is expected to
further drop by 40 vessels to a total of 180; with the project it is expected
that 85 vessels currently engaged in transport would return to full-time
fishing (Annex 7, Table 1).  The effect of the availability of fuel and fish
collection vessels on the number of vessels actually engaged in fishing has
been demonstrated in 1980 in the northern part of the country where fish
collection and fuel supply services briefly resumed after an absence of two
years. This resulted in an increase by 39%. The project impact would be
strongest in areas which had no regular service of collector vessels and fuel
in the past. Average catches per day would not increase as a result of the
project. Vessels would have more fuel to increase trip length, but would
also fish on more days when catches would be marginal.
Markets and Prices
6.03    The refrigeration complex would sell its products to:
(i) the world market as raw material for the canning industry;
(ii) the Middle East for direct consumption;
(iii) Male, for direct consumption; and
(iv) Sri Lanka, in dried, salted form.
STO would market the entire incremental catch, of which about 1,700 MT would
be handled by the cannery and the private company operating in the project
area. At full development, STO would handle a minimum of 9,500 MT from the
project area north of Male, of which 3,500 MT would be processed in the
cannery. Of the remaining 6,000 MT an estimated 75% would be sold in the
world market, 15% in the Middle East, 5% in Male and 5% would be unfit for
freezing and be processed into dried fish and exported. In addition STO
would market 1,000 MT of dried fish. Total frozen fish exports of Maldives
would reach about 20,000 MT in 1985, which would be only about 4% of the
projected world trade in skipjack and yellowfin tuna for canning. Maldives
is not expected to have difficulties in capturing this market share.
6.04    In view of the ongoing structural adjustment of the tuna industry and
the associated market uncertainties, price projections have been conserva-
tive. It is the consensus in the tuna industry that skipjack prices might
reach about US$1,000/MT CIF US West Coast by 1985 (in 1982 constant dollars).
This prediction assumes a reduction in worldwide fish catching capacity, a
reduction of inventories and an increase of demand based on the general
improvement of economic conditions in major tuna consuming countries. For the
financial and economic analysis a world market price of skipjack tuna is
assumed at US$740/MT CIF US West Coast in year 3, US$790 in years 4 and 5 and



-32-
US$840 in year 6 and following years.  Yellowfin tuna prices would be 15%
higher and constitute 10% of total throughput. Transport costs from Maldives
to the US West Coast are estimated at US$250/MT. Current skipjack prices
are about US$650/MT CIF US West Coast for the size and quali.ty produced in
Maldives. Prices for comparable tuna in Japan are somewhat higher. The
assumed modest increase of prices would still be substantially below peak
prices quoted in 1981 (US$1,100/MT CIF US West Coast) and below estimated
break-even prices for modern tuna purse seiners.
6.05    The current market for frozen tana in the M4iddle East is limited,
although tuna traditionally has been part of the diet. Nevertheless, imports
of frozen tuna in the Middle East (mainly small tunas) indicate some poten-
tial.  Maldives is favorably located near the Middle Eastern market; STO
would aim at carefully developing a market share in that area. It has been
assumed that prices paid for tuna would not exceed those paid in the world
market for comparable quality fish. The project would use f'ish landed by
vessels using ice for this market, thereby offering top quality fish, which
would receive a 7.5% price premium over other project fish.
Local Fish Prices
6.06    The Male market currently shows large price fluctuat:ions as a result
of differences between daily supplies and demand, and the complete lack of
fish preservation facilities near the capital.  STO would use a 15 MT cold
storage at Male which currently is being completed to store project fish
transported from Felivaru to supply the market. This would keep peak prices
below a level of up to Rf 20,000/MT or US$2,860/MT. Current annual consump-
tion of fish in the Male area is estimated at about 1,300 MT', excluding fish
consumed by the tourist industry. It is assumed that STO would be able to
sell annually about 200 MT in Male and another 100 MT to the tourist industry
at an average price of US$800/MT. This compares with an aveerage price of
US$925/MT in Male for the period January, 1979 to September, 1981.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Impact 1/
7.01    Vessel Incomes and Production.  At full development, gross income
from about 700 mechanized vessels in the project area would increase from
Rf 24 million (without project) to Rf 36 million (with project). Value added
of all vessels would increase from Rf 14 million to Rf 23 million. Value
added of fishing vessels would increase from Rf 4.1 million to Rf 12.0 mil-
lion. With the project, the catch of the mechanized fleet would increase by
about 8,700 MT. Incremental exports of frozen, canned and other processed
fish would increase by about the same amount, providing incremental foreign
exchange earnings of about US$3.9 million per year.
1/ All values are at constant 1981 prices.



-33-
7.02    Employment.  The project would provide permanent employment for about
150 people, and increase employment opportunities on the fishing fleet by
about 1,500O
7.03    Impact on Target Group.  An estimated 8,000 fishermen (para 3.04)
would benefit directly from the project. They would intensify and expand
fishing operations, obtain higher prices for better quality fish and have
improved access to markets. Since fishing vessels operate on a catch sharing
basis virtually all fishermen on pole and line vessels and a substantial
number of those using small fishing vessels would benefit from better catches
and higher prices. The annual income of crew members of mechanized vessels
would increase by about 65%. Non-mechanized and small vessels would earn
between 5% and 30% more, largely due to better access to fresh fish marketing
channels. The entire target group would earn an average annual incremental
income of over US$100 per head as a result of the project. In addition, it
is expected that experimental changes in crew share arrangements on project
financed vessels would start to improve income distribution.
Financial Analysis
7.04    Fishing Vessels.  As a result of the greatly improved services in
fuel distribution and fish collection, a number of mechanized fishing vessels
would return to full-time fishing. Returns to vessel owners operating a
fishing vessel north of Male would be higher than those fishing south of Male
or engaged in transportation, but marginally lower than those operating for
tourism. Since the opportunities to operate vessels for tourist resorts are
limited, particularly because many resorts have new, larger tourist vessels
on order, the projected financial rate of return of 26% for a typical fishing
vessel in the project area would be attractive enough to induce vessel
operators to return to fishing (Annex 7, Table 1).
7.05    Fish Collection and Freezing.  The financial rate of return (FRR) of
the fish collection and freezing complex has been calculated on the basis of
FOB export prices for tuna of US$500/MT in year 3, US$550 in years 4 and 5
and US$600 in year 6 and following years. Furthermore, the project would
annually sell 900 MT of prime quality fish directly to the Middle East, at
US$700/MT FOB, and about 300 MT of frozen fish in the Male Market at
US$800/MT. It is further assumed that local procurement prices for fish paid
by the project would increase by about 15% when the project becomes opera-
tional, with a further modest 5% increase in year 6. Based on these highly
conservative assumptions the FRR is 12%.
7.06    Fuel Distribution. Although fuel distribution is essentially a serv-
ice to mechanized fishing vessels, STO would adopt a fuel pricing policy
designed to charge the full cost plus a reasonable margin of profit for this
operation (para 5.16). At the projected average price of Rf 2.90 liters,
or about Rf 0.20 over the current price, the estimated financial rate of
return on this component is 18% (Annex 6, Table 2).



-34-
7.07    Overall Financiai Rate of Return.  The estimated financial rate of
return for the project is 16% and 11% when all technical assistance costs are
included.
Economic Analysis
7.08    Under the "without project" situation it is assumed that fishing
efforts in the project area would gradually decrease by about 10% due to the
continuing lack of adequate fuel distribution and fish collection facilities,
and low prices paid for dried fish (Annex 7, Table 2). These assumptions are
based on an expected continuation of current fishing patterns, according to
which fishing vessels concentrate in areas with adequate fish collection and
fuel distribution facilities, and GOM's strong support for continuation of
the role of the cannery and private collection operation in the area.
7.09    Economic Benefits and Costs.  The benefits of the project would
comprise the value of the incremental catch produced by the project (Annex 8)
and the value of incremental services provided to the tourism and transporta-
tion sectors. The economic costs of the project include all investment costs
of project civil works, the refrigeration complex, vessels, and technical
assistance, and operating and maintenance costs including cost of incremental
procurement of fuel. For non-tradable items a standard conversion factor of
'1' was assumed. The labor costs of the crews of existing mechanized fishing
vessels have been valued at the "without project" wage rate. The economic
prices of exported fish have been calculated at projected US West Coast
prices net of shipping and handling costs (para 6.04 and Annex 8). The
economic prices of project fish sold locally are assumed to be equal to the
present international prices of comparable fish less transport costs (para
6.06).
7.10    Economic Rate of Return.  On the basis of the foregoing projections
and assumptions and those made in Annex 8, the overall economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project is 27%. The net present value of the project
discounted at 12% is Rf 47.4 million. If the sunk costs of existing
mechanized vessels (about Rf 12 million) to which project benefits are
attributed are included in the cost stream, the ERR is reduced to 20%. The
separation of fuel distribution investments contributing to benefits in the
tourism and transport sectors would re!quire highly subjective judgments as
mechanized vessels frequently switch between the fishing and transport sec-
tors. Therefore, no separate ERR for those investments has been calculated.
The ERR of the project without non-fishery benefits is 26%.
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
7.11    The main project risk would be a slower than anticipated improvement
of tuna prices. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the effect
of this and other deviations from the main assumptions on the economic
viability of the project. The results are summarized below:
(i) Lower Benefits. The level of world-market tuna prices
is the most significant determinant of project benefits
and the ERR. The switching value for the FOB price for



-35-
frozen tuna exported by the project is US$415/MT, or 31%
below the assumed value, which would bring the ERR to
13%, the estimated opportunity costs of capital in
Maldives.
(ii) Higher Costs. The project is not very sensitive to changes
in costs. An increase in investment costs by 20% would
reduce the ERR to 22%; an increase in operating costs by
50% would result in an ERR of 19%. Investment and operating
costs would have to increase by about 90% to bring the ERR
down to 13%.
(iii) Delays. A uniform two year lag in benefits with no change
in costs would lower the ERR to 14%.
7.12    The results of the economic analysis indicate that only very large
deviations from the basic assumptions would make the project economically
not viable.
Environmental Impact
7.13    The project will not have adverse effects on the physical
environment. The fuel distribution component would reduce the risks of
spills from the current fuel drum trade. The expansion of the fish
collection system will reduce the need for fishing vessels to operate in
limited catching areas, thereby reducing the pressure of large vessel
concentrations on the environment. The fish freezing operation would not
produce any appreciable amount of fish offal as tuna are frozen whole.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOM that
it would:
(a) cause STO to prepare a plan, satisfactory to IDA, for transfer
of the fishing vessels to private operators (para 4.08);
(b) cause STO to ensure that IDA be allowed to comment on the actual
specifications of the proposed refrigeration plant and construc-
tion contract prior to contract award (para 4.16);
(c) cause STO to internationally recruit: (i) a training consultant
to assist STO in training project staff by June 30, 1983,
(ii) a team of management consultants to help STO operate the
Fish Marketing Division by August 31, 1983, and (iii) a fuel
distribution specialist to help STO operate the Fuel Distribution
Division by August 31, 1983, whose qualifications and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to IDA (paras 5.09 and 5.10);
(d) cause STO to determine fish prices within limits set by the
Fishery Advisory Board (para 5.13);



-36-
(e) cause STO to establish a Fish MArketing Division responsible
for collection, freezing and marketing of fish and a Fuel
Distribution Division to distribute fuel, prior to May 31, 1983
(para 5.03);
(f) cause STO to provide a work program acceptable to IDA for the
training specialist by July 31, 1983, and a provisional staff
list and a final proposal for a. training program acceptable
to IDA for those staff with insufficient qualifications by
August 31, 1983 (para 5.09);
(g) to prepare criteria acceptable to IDA for fuel pricing
by March 31, 1984 (para 5.16);
(h) to cause STO to make fuel readi.ly available to all mechanized
vessels in the project area by February 28, 1985 (para 5.16);
(i) cause STO to maintain separate accounts for project funds.
STO accounts would be regularly internally audited and would in
addition be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA (para 5.19); and
(j) cause STO to submit annual audi.t reports to IDA within
six months of the close of each fiscal year (para 5.19).
8.02    During negotiations an understanding was reached with GOM that it
would:
(a) internationally recruit: (i) a team of consultants to prepare
a follow-up investment project:, and (ii) a certified accountant
to train the Auditor-General's staff and improve auditing prac-
tices of STO by August 31, 1983, with qualifications and condi-
tions of employment satisfactory to IDA (paras 4.10 and 5.18);
(b) transfer MTTC's current fuel dilstribution facilities and
activities to STO by August 31, 1983 (para 5.02);
(c) cause MOF to set up a monitoring system for vessel economics
by August 31, 1983 (para 5.20); and
(d) make its best efforts to maintain fish collection and fuel
distribution services at their current levels in the
project area during construction of the project facilities
(para 6.01).
8.03    Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) furnishing of satisfactory evidence by GOM that thet
execution and delivery on behalLf of the Borrower of
the NG Participation Agreement, the IFAD Loan Agreement
and OPEC Fund Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or



-37-
ratified by all necessary governmental action, and all
other conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
said grant and loans have been fulfilled (para 4.14);
(b) finalization of the subsidiary loan agreements between
GOM and STO covering proceeds of the IDA Credit, IFAD and
OPEC Fund loans and NG grant (para 4.15); and
(c) establishment of PCC with composition and responsibilities
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.08).
8.04    With the above conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDRs 4.8 million (US$5.0 million) to GOM on
standard terms.



MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Landings and Export 1970-1980
(-000 MT)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Landings:
Skipjack                  27.0    29.7    17.5    18.8    23.1    14.8    19.8    16.9    16.5    17.9    23.5
Yellowfin                  2.1      1.4     2.1      5.6      4.3     3.8      4.6      3.9      3.8      4.3     4.2
Little Tuna                3.1     0.5      0.6      1.0      0.8     0.4      1.0                       0.7      1.1
Frigate Mackerel           0.7     2.9      3.0      6.2      5.7     3.9      2.9      3.3 a/  3.2 a/  1.8       1.6
Other Marine Fishes        1.6      1.0     2.3 b/  2.4 b/  2.5 b/  2.5 b/  2.7 b/  2.3          2.3     3.0      4.2
Total                       34.5    35.5    25.5    34.0    35.4    25.2    31.0    26.4    25.8    27.7    34.6
Export:
"Maldive Fish" c/ f/    23.6    26.8    19.2    15.5    17.6          9.8      8.0      4.9      1.2      d/      0.3
Salted/Dried Fish c/       1.3     0.9      0.1      0.4      1.5     0.1      0.2      2.3     4.7               8.3
Fresh Frozen e/              -        0     2.0      4.4      4.5     5.7      8.7    10.9    11.4        d/    14.9
Total                       24.9    27.7    21.3    20.3    23.6    15.6    17.1    18.1    17.3                   22.7
Local Consumption
and Stocks                   9.6      7.8     4.2    13.7    11.8        9.6    12.9      8.3      8.5             11.9
a/  Separate figures not available for Little Tuna and Frigate Mackerel.
b/  Male landings included.
c/  Fresh fish equivalent.
di/  Figures not available.
e/  Includes canned tuna.
f/ "Maldive Fish" is the traditional processed fish product exported to Sri Lanka.
Ht>



-39-                                  ANNEX 1
Table 2
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Catch by Fishing Method (1980)
(MT)
Method of Fishing                                    Little                Other
and Type of Vessel           Skipjack   Yellowfin   Tuna   Mackerel  Marine Fishes   Total
Pole and Line:
Mechanized Masdhoani a/   21,718        3,144        191   1,084          919        27,056
Sailing Masdhoani           1,356         503        104     208          349         2,520
Total                          23,074      3,647        295   1,292        1,268
Trolling:
Vadhudhoani b/                487         582        768     304        2,183         4,324
Other Methods:                                 -          -        -         791           791
.Masdhoani/Vadhudhoani             -           -          -       -          791           791
Totals (MT)                   23,561       4,229      1,063   1,596        4,242        34,691
a/ Traditional name for pole and line vessels.
_/ Traditional name for smaller fishing vessels.
Source: Ministry of Fisheries.



-40                                       ANNEX 1
Table 3
MAVLDIVE S
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Population, Fishermen and Fishing Boats in Project Area North of Male
('1981)
Mechanized      Sailing
Atoll          Population a/  Fishermen    Vessels   b!  Vessels   Vadhudhoanis c/
Baa               4,719          1,379             80            18         172
Raa               6,458          2,001             95            52         283
Lhaviyani         4,735          1,758             60            13          83
Noonu             5,195          1,631             35            52         214
Shaviyani         5,184          1,372             15            58         342
Haa Dhaalu        8,247          1,400             30            76         267
Haa Aliff         7,199          1,863             60            73         197
Project area    41,737          11,404            375           342       1,558
Country         118,995         24,330         1,000          1,050       3,405
Percentage           35             47             37            32          46
a/  Population five years of age and above.
b/ Estimates for early 1982.
c/ Small sailing vessels.
Source: Ministry of Fisheries.



-41-                                   ANNEX 1
Table 4
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Total Landings in the Project Area North of Male
(MT)
Atoll                           1977       1978      1979       1980
Baa                            2,800      2,600     3,000      3,450
Raa                            2,600      2,900     2,650      2,400
Lhaviyani                      2,100      2,200     2,600      4,100
Noonu                          1,100        800       500      1,450
Shaviyani                      1,100        900       550        750
Haa Dhaalu                     1,100        900       800        800
Haa Aliff                      2,100      2,700       950      1,550
Project Area                  12,800    13,000    11,050    14,500
Country                       26,400    25,800    27,700    34,000
Project Area as                   48         50        40         42
% of Country
Source: Ministry of Fisheries.



-42-                          ANNEX 1
Table 5
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
1980 Catch by Species and Type of Fishing Vessel North of Male
(MT)
Tuna Species__/_                                      Other SEecies
Atoll           Mechanized Vessels  Sailing Vessels  Vadhudhoanis b/  All Boats   X of Total
Baa                   2,727                   9               86               650          19
Raa                    1,781                 52              137               450          19
Lhaviyani             3,808                    6               0               300           7
Noonu                    894                124              104               350          24
Shaviyani                 27                 15              311               400          53
Haa Dhaalu                34                10B             151               500          63
Haa Aliff                756                209               99               500          32
Project Area         10,027                 523              888             3,150          22
a/  Tuna Species = Skipjack, Yellowfin and Little Tuna.
b/ Small sailing vessles.



-43-                                 ANNEX 2
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Projections for Fish Catch and Fish Collection Requirements
I. FISH LANDINGS
General
1.        The present situation North of Kaafu atoll can be summarized as
follows:
Mechanized vessels    Average no of       Average
Registered  Fishing   Fishing Trips   Annual Catch
(MT)
Baa                 80         35            130             33
Raa                 95         40            130             33
Lhaviyani           60         35            180             52
Noonu               35         15            100             30
Haa Alif, Haa )
Dhaalu, and)
Shaviyani  )    105          10            100             45
337        135
2.        From the current mechanization program (Cr. 907-MAL) about 175
engines remain to be installed. Approximately 70 are assumed to come to the
project area north of Male by the end of 1983. About 25 of the newly
mechanized boats are expected to start full-time fishing. With 135 of the
about 375 mechanized vessels currently fishing, the total number of fishing
vessels at the end of 1983 would be 160, provided current fish collection and
fuel distribution activities in the project area continue.
3.        With the project it is expected that 65 vessels would return from
other occupations to full time fishing. A substantial portion of those
vessels would have been mechanized recently. Under the project 20 new fish-
ing vessels would be constructed. Disregarding construction of other new
fishing vessels, which is unpredictable, the actual fishing fleet would
increase from approximately 160 boats by late 1983 to approximately 245 boats
at full project development.



-44-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Present             Additional Boats              New
Situation   1st Project 2nd Project Return  Situation
Baa                35             8              4       17         64
Raa                40             8              6       18         72
Lhaviyani          35             6              6       15         62
Noonu              15             2              4       11         32
Haa Aliff, Haa    10               1             -        4         15
Dhaalu and
Shaviyani
135            25            20        65       245
Catch per Year
4.        Catch projections per atoll have been made according to the
number of boats in para 3. These projections for fish production at full
project development are based on average catch per day figures which are
about 15% below reported 1980 figures.   In addition to the landings of
mechanised vessels registered in the area, some landings will come from
part-time fishing and from outside boats. Total landing estimates are
available in the project file and are summarized as follows:
Baa                      3,280 MT
Raa                      3,740 MT
Lhaviyani                3,920 MT
Noonu                    1,900 MT
Shaviyani/Haa Daalu}
Haa Aliff           }   1,500 MT
14,340 MT
Additional Landings        300 MT
(non area vessels)
Total              14,640 MT



-45-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
5.        The total landings would be disposed of as follows:
Total landings in the 7 atolls             14,600 MT
Local Consumption: 2,000 MT 11
Salted and dried: 3,100 MT 2t/
Canned:              3,500 MT 3/            8,600 MT
Available to the project for freezing    6,000 MT
II. FISH COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS
Major Fishing Islands
6.        Map IBRD 16117 shows the major fishing grounds and the major fish-
ing islands. It is expected that the proposed fish collection system would
further concentrate fishing in specific areas in which collector vessels
would regularly be present. In Baa the fishing grounds are located southwest
of the atoll. The two most important fishing islands are Thulhaadhoo and
Hithadhoo on the southern tip of the atoll, and Eydafushi, northeast of these
two. In Raa the best fishing grounds are west of the atoll. The most impor-
tant fishing island is Kadholhudhoo in the central part of the atoll, with 34
mechanized vessels registered in 1980. Two important fishing islands
(Maduvaru and Meedhoo) are located in the southern part of the atoll, with a
mechanized dhoni fleet of 26. In Lhaviyani, the mechanized dhonis are con-
centrated in Naifaru and Hinnavaru on the northwestern part of the atoll.
The major fishing grounds are on the eastern side of the atoll. In Noonu,
fishing is concentrated both west and east of the atoll. The two most impor-
tant fishing islands (Velidhoo and Holhudhoo) are situated on the southwes-
tern side of the atoll. In Haa Aliff, the major fishing grounds are on the
northern side of the atoll while the two major fishing islands (Havarafushi
and Thavandhoo) are on the western side.
1/ Local consumption is based on a population of about
40,000 and an annual consumption of 50 kg per capita.
2/ Approximately 21% of total catch is used for salting
and drying.
3/ Cannery demand for fresh fish is estimated to remain
at 1980 peak capacity of 3,500 MT.



-46-                            ANNEX 2
Page 4
Fish Collecting Capacity
7.        The project has been designed to increase freezing capacity with
a minimum of 6,000 MT of fresh tuna pe!r year.
(i) In Lhaviyani most fish landings would be directly at the
project's freezing plant. Collector vessels will only
operate on the eastern side of the atoll during the peak season.
(ii) In Baa, Raa and Noonu collection must take place year-round
with at least one collection point in Baa (Hithaadhoo), two
in Raa (Kadholhudhoo and Maduvaru) and one in Noonu (Velidhoo).
(iii) In Haa Aliff only one collection point is necessary at
Huvarafushi. This will be a currently constructed land
based collection station to be operated by STO.  During the
peak season the area could be served by a mother vessel of
another company. Collection of fish in the off season appears
uneconomical for collector vessels.
8.        The necessary collection capacity in Baa, Raa and Noonu has been
calculated on the basis of figures for daily landings in the atoll shown in
the project file. The following assumLptions have been made:
(i) STO would collect 6,750 MT in the project area.
In addition 2,000 MT would be landed directly at
the cannery and STO's refrigeration complex and 750
MT would be collected at STO's centre at Haa Aliff.
Collection of fish would be about 80% of total landings
of mechanized vessels except at Lhaviyani.
(ii) The collection vessel will have an average utilization
capacity of 70%, or collection capacity available should be
approximately 140% of collectable catch.
9.        The necessary collection capacity over the year is shown in
Table l.  This has been arrived at by distributing catching days
evenly over each month, thereby reducing peak landings. The peak daily
collection is at most about 40 MT requiring about 55 MT collection capacity.
With the cannery having 4 vessels with 24 ton collection capacity the
project would add 4 vessels with 30 ton collection capacity.



-47-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
III. FISH COLLECTION PROCEDURES
10.       When mechanized fishing vessels deliver their fish, the catch
would be sorted by species and size on board the collector vessel. The
delivered catch would then be weighed before it is placed in the collect-
ing vessels' holding tanks. Depending on the quality of the fish and the
volume of ice used for cooling, fish can be stored for up to 4 days before
freezing. This makes it possible for a collector vessel to make trips of
1-3 days.
11.       The fish buyer on board the collector vessel would be respon-
sible for accepting the fish and have the power to reject them. To
preserve the fish, the holding tanks are filled with a mixture of seawater
and ice. Steel mesh baskets, each carrying approximately 625 kg of fish,
would be used for fish storage in the collector vessel's holding tanks.
Each collector vessel would have four holding tanks of which one would be
filled with ice when collection starts. In the 10 ton collector vessels,
each holding tank would contain four steel baskets, in the 5 ton vessel,
two baskets.
12.      The collector vessels would unload onto the plant's jetty at
Felivaru, which would have berthing capacity for three collector vessels.
A one-ton crane would lift the steel baskets directly from the vessel
holding rooms and place them on trollies. Each trolley would have a
carrying capacity of 4 baskets (2.5 tons). To protect the fish from being
directly exposed to the sun, the baskets would be covered. The trollies
would be pulled by a tractor into the plants buffer store area.
Direct Landings from Mechanized Fishing Vessels
13.       Berthing facilities would be available for fishing vessels
delivering dir,!ctly to the plant. Sorting and weighing of the fish would
take place in the same way as the collector vessels. The fish would be
kept in the plastic boxes (for small catches) or put into the same steel
mesh containers as used on the collector vessel.



-48_                                 ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Theoretical Demand for Fish Coll.ection Capacity in Project Area
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec
Baa           14      4      4     4    14    14        14      14    14       4      4    14
Raa            6      6      6    13    13    13        21      21    13       6      6      6
Lhaviyani      7      3      3     3      3      3       3       3     3       3      3      7
Noonu         14      3      3     3      3      3       3       3     3       3      3    14
Total         41    16    16    23    33    33          41      41    33      16    16    41
Haa Aliff    10    10    10        -      -      -       -       -     -       -      -      -



ANNEX 3
-49-
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Projections for Demand of Fuel and Fuel Distribution Requirements
and Present Fuel Storage and Distribution Facilities
1.        Demand for fuel has been estimated on the basis of the following
assumptions:
(i)  At full development 700 mechanized vessels will operate in the
project area; north of Male 225 fishing vessels and south of Male
80 fishing vessels. In addition, 125 tourist vessels and 270
transport vessels would operate north and south of Male.
(ii)  Fishing vessels consume 6,000 litres of fuel per year: tourist
vessels 1,800 litres per year, transport vessels 5,700 litres;
transport vessels would buy 75 percent of their fuel outside Male.
Total consumption of fuel per year by the fleet is estimated at 3.2 million
litres. Fuel consumption in each atoll would be about equivalent to the
numbers of vessels registered:
Estimated Number of Registered Vessels, 1983
Atoll                                  Number                     Percentage
Haa Aliff                                 80                          11.4
Shaviyani/                               35                            5.0
Haa Dhaalu                            25                           3.6
Noonu                                    45                            6.4
Baa                                     100                           14.3
Raa                                      115                          16.4
Lhaviyani                                 75                          10.7
Kaafu (south)                             35                           5.0
Faavu                                     10                           1.5
Vaavu                                     35                           5.0
Dhaalu                                    50                           7.1
Meemu                                     60                           8.6
Alifu                                     35                           5.0
700                         100.0
Tanks would be installed in all atolls, except Haa Dhaalu, where existing
installed capacity is adequate and Lhaviyani, the site of the main storage
tanks. Tankage on the other atolls was proportioned according to fleet size
and 4 tanker delivery routes for a tanker with a 95,000 litre working cargo.



-50-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Approximate Tank
Tanker Route    Atolls                            Capacity ('000 litre)
{ Haa Aliff                                 45
{ Shaviyani                                 15
A        { Haa Dhaalu (existing capacity
{                       adequate)            -
{ Noonu                                     30
Lhaviyani (Main Storage Tank)              -
B        {Baa                                         45
{ Raa                                       45
{ Kaafu                                     15
C        { Vaavu                                      30
{ Meemu                                     45
{ Alifu                                     30
D        { Faavu                                      15
{ Daalu                                     45
2.        The two tankers  operational schedule would include filling up of
the existing small fuel tanks (para 6), as well as the bigger project tanks.
Tanker trip times have been calculated on the basis of an average tanker
speed of seven knots. Discharge time is based on discharging 7,000 litres
per hour. It is estimated that about 260 days would be needed to service the
entire annual fuel requirements. This does not take into account any time
lost due to bad weather, holidays, vessel maintenance and repair and break-
downs.
3.        The project would require the following amounts of fuel in in
addition to requirements for the fleet:
Annual Fuel Requirement
('000 litre)
2 tankers                                     180
Ice plant plus storage                        475
4 collector vessels                            150
Freezer and cold store                         450
Mother vessels operating at Haa Aliff          350
1,605



-51-                                ANNEX 3
Page 3
To service the project and the fishing vessels during the peak 3 months of
the year, it is estimated that about 1.5 million litres would be required.
The proposed 1.6 million litre storage capacity at Felivaru would require
refilling of 1.2 million litres or about 1,000 MT 4 times a year. 1,000 MT
is the minimum amount tankers are willing to deliver to the project when
supplying the country's main storage tanks near Male. The frequency of
filling would depend on the fish catch, with a filling about every two months
into the December to February peak period.
4.        At present all oil purchases are made by STO.  Orders are placed
with the Maldivian Trade Centre, STO's principal in Singapore, which is also
MSL's representative. Oil is purchased on the open market. It is shipped by
tankers chartered by the representative and delivered to Male to the tank
farm located on Funadu Island near Male. Storage is available for 4,500 MT
of diesel oil in three tanks of 1,500 MT capacity each. Piping from the
tanks extends to a jetty where a connection is made to the tanker through 125
m of 14 cm diameter floating hose. The pumps on board the tanker are used in
making the transfer. Diesel oil purchase schedules are based on maintaining
a minimum fuel balance of three months supply in storage. Time from place-
ment of order for fuel to delivery is about 1 1/2 months.
5.        The diesel oil is Marine Gas Oil (35 API Diesel).  Current pur-
chases of diesel fuel are at the rate of 12,000 tons per year. Quantity
measurement of delivery is by onboard measurement of the levels in the
tanker's tanks. The tanker is completely emptied. There are a few large
customers of STO such as the Male electric power plant, but other sales are
made to distributors for retail sales. Formerly MNC used to load fuel from
the Funadu tanks for use in its operations at Laviyani and for distribution
to fishermen.
6.        The Government in 1980 started to build 150 tanks on 52 islands
(Table 1). The tanks are rectangular in shape with a capacity of 3.08 tons
per tank. They are currently being supplied by a self propelled barge of 100
tons capacity, constructed in Male. Project tankers are expected to take
over distribution of fuel to these small tanks, while the barge would be used
as standby, and concentrate on fuel transport around Male.



-52.-                                ANNEX 3
Page 4
Atoll-wise Locat:Lon of Fuel Tanks
Ha. Atoll                                   V. Atoll
Huvarafushi          4*                     Felldhoo              3*
Ohidhoo              4
Baarah               2                      M. Atoll
Mulaku               4*
H. Dh. Atoll                                Dhiggaru              4
Naavaidhoo           3
Kulhudhuffushi       3                      F. Atoll
Makunudhoo           1                      Biledhoo              2*
Sh. Atoll                                   Dh. Atoll
Maroshi              2                      Meedhoo               3
Komandhoo            2*                     Kudahuvadhoo          3*
Farukolhufunadhoo   1
Th. Atoll
N. Atoll                                    Vilufushi             3
Velidhoo             2*                     Guraidhoo             3
fIolhudhoo           2                      Thimarafushi          2
Vandhoo              2
R. Atoll                                    Veymandoo             2
Ugoofaaru            3
Alifushi             3                      L. Atoll
Kadhoohudhoo         3*                     Maabaidhoo            3
Meedhoo              6                      Maavah                4
Maamendhoo           5
B. Atoll
Kudarakilu           3                      Ca. Atoll
Eydhafushi           5                      Kolamaafushi          3
Thulhaadhoo          5*                     Viligili              6
Goidhoo              1                      Nilandhoo             5
Lh. Atoll                                   G. Dh. Atoll
Hinnavaru            6                      Gadhdhoo              2
Naifaru              7                      Fiyoaree              3
Kurendhoo            1                      Thinadhoo             6
K. Atoll                                    Gn. Atoll
Gaafaru              1                      Foamulaku             1
Dhiffusi             1
Maafushi             1*                     S. Atoll
Hithadhoo            1
A. Atoll                                    Feydhoo               3
Mahibadhoo           1                      Hulhumeedhoo          1
Mathiveri            2*
Thoddoo              1
* Future large tank locations at locations checked.
SOURCE: Ministry of Provincial Affairs.



ANNEX 4
-53-                                              alI
MALDIVES
SECOND FISNERIES PROJECT
Fish Collection and Storage - Investment Costs
No of      Total       Foreign       Local
Unit       Unit Cost    Units        Costs        Costs        Costs
A. Collector Vessels and Barges
Collector Vessels (5 ton fish) 1!                1 vessel    1,120,000         2       2,240.0       2,240.0
Collector Vessels (10 ton fish) 2/               1 vessel    1,470,000         2       2,940.0       2,940.0
Lighter Barge (20 ton) 3/                        1 vessel        420,000       2          840.0        840.0
Transport Vessel 4/                              1 vessel    2,450,000          1      2,450.0       2,450.0
Total Vessel Base Costs                                                                8,470.0       8,470.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                                              847.0        847.0
Total Vessels plus Physical Contingencies                                              9,317.0       9,317.0
B.  Refrigeration Complex 5/
Ice Plant and  Storage                                                                 3,794.7       3,421.6       373.1
Holding Tanks and Freezer                                                              2,006.9       1,756.3       250.6
Cold Storage                                                                           4,210.5       3,875.9       334.6
Main Building                                                                          1,383.9       1,176.7       207.2
Generators                                                                             1,199.1       1,054.2        144.9
Containers                                                                             3,556.7       3,428.6        128.1
Water Treatment                                                                         1,584.1      1,318.1       266.0
fork Lifts, Hoists, Tractors                                                           1,178.8       1,131.9         46.9
ldiscellaneous                                                                         1,283.1       1,022.9        260.2
Total Refrigeration Complex                                                           20,197.8    18,186.2    2,011.6
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                                           2,019.8       1,818.6       201.2
Total plus Physical Contingencies                                                     22,217.6    20,004.8       771T;
C. Civil Works, Refrigeration Co_plex 6/
Foundation Ice Plant                                                                      233.1        209.8         23.3
Engine Roon                                                                               112.0        100.8         11.2
Foundation Freezer and Holding Room                                                       233.8        210.4        23.4
Foundation Cold Storage                                                                   513.8        462.4        51.4
Water Tanks                                       I Tank          62,300       3          186.9        168.2         18.7
Total Civil Works, Refrigeration Complex                                               1,279.6       1,151.6       128.0
Physical Contingencies (20%)                                                             255.9         230.3        25.6
Total plus Physical Contingencies                                                      1,535.5       1,381.9       153.T
D. Other Civil Works 9/
Jetty                                                                                  2,590.0       2,331.0       259.0
Barge Loadout                                                                             70.0          63.0          7.0
Roads                                                                                     140.0        126.0         14.0
Slipway                                                                                  168.0         151.2        16.8
Workshop                                                                                  373.1        335.8         37.3
Houses                                                                                 4,200.0       4,200.0            -
Boarding House                                                                           525.0         472.5        52.5
Guest House                                                                    -         350.0         350.0            -
Total Other Civil Works                                                                8,416.1       8,029.5       386.6
Physical Contingencies (202)                                                           1,683.2       1,605.9        77.2
Total plus Physical Contingencies                                                     10,099.3       9,635.4       463.9
F Oil STorage and Distribution 8/
Small Tanks                                                                              403.2         362.9        40.3
Foundations Sull Tanks                                                                    186.9        168.2         18.7
Large Tanks                                                                            1,449.0       1,304.1       144.9
Foundations Large Tanks                                                                  186.9         168.2         18.7
Tankers                                                                                3,500.0       3,500.0         -
Total Oil Storage and Distribution                                                     5,726.0       5,503.4       222.6
Physical Contingencies (20%)                                                           1 145.2       1,100.7        44.5
Total plus Physical Contingencies                                                      6,871.2       6,604.1   ;7T
F. Fishing Vessels 9/
Second Generation Vessels                        I vessel         87,130      10         871.3         700.3       171.0
Long Range Vessels                               I vessel        173,600      10       1 736.0       1,416.0       320.0
Total Costs Vessels                                                                      607.3       2,116.3       491.0
G. Technical Assistance 10/
Local Training                                                                         1,394.4         897.4       497.0
Foreign Training                                                                         756.0         756.0            -
Management Contracts                                                                   7,935.6       7,796.6        139.0
Preparation Follow-up Project                                                          1,134.0       1,008.0       126.0
Detailed Design and Procurement                                                        1,484.0       1,400.0        84.0
Project Supervision                                                                    2,506.0       2,142.0       364.0
Total Technical Assistance                                                            15,210.0    14,000.0    1,210.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                                           1,521.0       1,400.0       121.0
Total plus Physical Contingencies                                                     16,731.0    15,400.0    1,331.0
I/   16.4 n fibreglass vesel, 38 MT displacement with 95 shaft NP.
2/   18.1 m fibreglass vessel, 51.5 MT displacement with 130 shaft HP.
3/   Self-propelled steel barge with loading ramp.
4/   About 16 n vesel with 10 knot speed able to transport 8 passengers and 500 kg of cargo.
7E/   See project file for detailed costing.
6/   See project file for estimates.  Local costs estimated at 10t of foreign costs.
7/   See project file for estimates.  Local costs estimated at 10% of foreign costs except for houses and
guest house (prefab imported).
8/   See project file for estimates.  Local Costs 10% of foreign costs.
9/   See project file for detailed estimates.
I_/  See project file for estinates.



54                                                                          ANNEX 4
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Investment Costs:  Price contingencies
(Rf aiillion)
--------Year 0---------   ---- -------Year 1---------    ---------Year 2---------    ----------Year 3----------
Description                                    Total   Foreign   Local   Total          Foreign       Local    Total       Foreign    Local   Total         Foreign    Local
A.  Vessels
Collector Vessels 1/                                                                                         5.70        5.70
Lighter Barges 2/                                                         .92          .92            -         -           -
Transport Vessel 3/                                                      2.70         2.70                 -        -        -          -
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies                                      3.62         3.62            -      5.70        5.70
Price Contingencies                                                       .60           .60           -      1.45        1.45
Total Vessel Costs                                                       4.22         4.22            -      7.15        7.15           -
B.  Refrigeration Complex 4/
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies                                                                         11.11       10.00        1.11    11.11       10.00       1.11
Price Contingencies                                                                                          2.86        2.54         .32    3.91         3.42        .49
Total Refrigeration Complex Costs                                                                           13.97       12.54        1.43   15.02        13.42       1.59
C.  Civil Works, Refrigeration Complex
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies                                       .77           .69         .08       .77         .69         .08
Price Contingencies                                                       .12          .11          .01       .20         .18         .02
Total Civil Works, Referation Complex                                     .89           .80         .09       .97         .87         .10
D.  Other Civil Works 6/
Jetty                                                                    1.55         1.40          .15      1.55        1.40         .15
Barge Loadout                                                             .08          .07          0.1
Roads                                                                                                         .17         .15         .02
Slipway                                                                                                       .20         .18        .02
Workshop                                                                                                      .45          .40        .05
Houses                                                                   5.80         5.74          .06       .29         .28         .01
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies                                      7.43         7.21          .22      2.66        2.41         .25
Price Contingencies                                                      1.23         1.20          .03       .68          .61        .07
Total Other Civil Works                                                  8.66         8.41          .25      3.34        3.02       Th3
E.  Oil Storage and Distribution 7/
Small Tanks                                                               .08          .07          .01      .40          .36        .04
Foundations Small Tanks                                                   .11           .10         .01       .11         .10         .01
Large Tanks                                                                                                  1.74        1.56         .18
Foundations Large Tanks                                                   .22           .20         .02
Tankers                                                                                                      4.20        4.20           -
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies                                       .41          .37          .04      6.45        6.22         .23
Price Contingencies                                                       .07          .06          .01      1.65        1.58        .07
Total Oil Storage and Distribution                                        .48          .43          .05      8.10        7.80         .30
F.  Fishing Vessels 8/
Second Generation Vessels                                                 .29           .23         .06       .58         .47         .11
Long Range Vessels                                                                                            .58         .47         .11    1.16          .95        .21
Base Costs                                                                .29           .23         .06      1.16         .94         .22    1.16          .95        .21
Price Contingencies                                                       .05          .04          .01       .30         .24         .06     .41          .32        .09
Total Fishing Vessels                                                     .34           .27         .07      1.46        1.18         .28    1.57         1.27        .30
G.  Technical Assistance 9/
Local Training                                                            .50           .35         .15       .50         .35         .15     .45          .24        .21
Foreign Training                                                          .45           .45           -       .38         .38           -
Management Contract                                                       .02           .02           -       .05          .05          -    3.88         3.73        .15
Preparation Follow-up Project                                                                                                                1.25         1.11        .14
Detailed Design and Procurement             1.00      1.00                .63           .54         .09
Supervision                                                               .95          .89          .06      1.18         .99        .19      .63          .48        .15
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies         1.00      1.00               2.55         2.25          .30      2.11        1.77         .34    6.21         5.66        .65
Price Contingencies                          .08       .08                .42          .37          .05       .55         .45         .10    2.19         1.90        .29
Total Technical Assistance                  1.08      1.08               2.97         2.62          .35      2.66        2.22         .44    8.40         7.46        .94



ANNEX 4
Table 2
-55-                                                                          Page 2
------Year 4----------  -____---Year 5                          -----Year 6 -------   ------------Total----------
Descriptlon                                       Total      Foreign    Local   Total    Foreign  Local   Total    Foreign  Local  Total               Foreign       Local
A.  Vessels
Collector Vessels                                                                                                                       5.70         5.70
Lighter Barges                                                                                                                           .92          .92
Transport Vessel                                                                                                                       2.70          2.70
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies                                                                                                    9.32          9.32
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                    2.05          2.05
Total Vessel Casts                                                                                                                     11.37        11.37
B.  Refrigeration C- plex
Base Costs plus Phys. CoCtingencies                                                                                                   22.22         20.00         2.22
Price Coatingencies                                                                                                                    6.77          5.96          .81
Total Refrigeration Complex Costs                                                                                                     28.99         25.96         3.02
C. Cioil Works, Refrigeration Corplex
Base Costs plus Phys. Continge-cies                                                                                                     1.54         1.38          .16
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                      .32          .29          .03
Total Cioil Works., Referation C.aple.                                                                                                  1.86         1.67          .19
D.  Other Civil Works
Jetty                                                                                                                                  3.10          2.80          .30
Barge Loadoat                                                                                                                            .08          .07          .01
Roads                                                                                                                                    .17          .15          .02
5lipway                                                                                                                                  .20          .18          .02
Workshop                                                                                                                                 .45          .40          .05
Houses                                                                                                                                 6.09          6.02          .07
Base Costs plus Phys. Co-tingencies                                                                                                   10.09          9.62          .47
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                    1.91          1.81          .10
Total Other Civil Works                                                                                                                 9120        11.43          .57
E.  Oil Storage and Distribution
Small Tanks                                                                                                                              .48          .43          .05
Foundations Small Tanks                                                                                                                  .22          .20          .02
Large Tanks                                                                                                                            1.74          1.56          .18
Foundations Large Tanks                                                                                                                  .22          .20          .22
Tankers                                                                                                                                4.20          4.20
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies                                                                                                    6.86          6.59          .27
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                     1.72         1.64          .08
Total Oil Storage and Distribstion                                                                                                     X.9256        8.35
P. Fishing Vessels
Second Generation Vessels                                                                                                                .87          .70          .17
Long Range Vessels                                                                                                                      1.74         1.42          .32
Base Costs                                                                                                                             2.61          2.12          .79
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                      .76          .60          .16
Total Fishing Vessels                                                                                                                   3.37         2.72          .65
C. Technical Assistance
Local Training                                  .09         .05        .04                                                              1.53          .99          .54
Foreign Training                                                                                                                         .83          .83            -
Management Contract                           2.78         2.78          -    1.00        1.00        -    1.00        1.00        -   8.73          8.58          .15
Preparation Follow-up Project                                                                                                          1.25          1.11          .14
Detailed Design and Procore-ent                                                                                                         1.63         1.54          .09
Bupervision                                   -             _                                                                          2.76          2.36          .40
Base Costs plus Phys. Contingencies           2.87         2.83        .04    1.00        1.00        -    1.00        1.00        -  16.74         15.41         1.33
Price Contingencies                           1.21         1.19        .02      .51        .51        -      .60        .60        -   5.56          5.10          .46
Tatal Technical Assistance                    4.09         '1.02       .06    1.51        1.51        _        1.60    1.60        -  22.30         20.51         1.79
Total Project                     61.92         57.46         4.46
Physical Contingencies             7.48          7.00          .48
Price Contingencies               19.09         17.45         1.64
Overall Total                     88.49        81.91          6.58
Nates
Price Contingencies:
Foreign costs; year 0 and I - 8%, year 3 - 7.5%, year 4 - 7.0%, year 5-6  - 6.0%
Local costs; year 0 - 15%, year 1 and 2 - 12%, year 3 and following years 10%.
1/ Delivered in year 2.
2/ Delivered in year 1.
3/ ides.
4/ Constructed in year 2 and 3.
5/ Constructed in year I and 2/
61  Jetty constructed in year 1 and 2, barge loadout in year 1, other wrks in year 2, except for houses, ainly
constructed in year 1.
7/ Foundations constructed in year I and 2. 20% of tanks constructed in year 1, rest in year 2. Foundation for large
tank constructed in year 1, tank in year 2.
S/ Conatruction over 3 years starting year 1.
9/ Local training will stretch over 3 years, foreign training in year 1 and 2. The management contract would start in
year 3, in year 4, 5 and 6 assistance vould be gradually reduced. Detailed design would be e ecuted in year 0 and
1, supervision vould start in year B and last until facilities have been completed in year 3.



-56-                           ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Summary Project Investment Costs - Price Contingencies
(Rf million)
------------Total------------
Total       Foreign       Local
Civil Works Plant                                 1.28          1.15          .13
Physical Contingencies                              .26          .23          .03
Price Contingencies                                 .32          .29          .03
Total                                          1.86          1.67          .19
Plant                                            20.20         18.19         2.01
Physical Contingencies                            2.02          1.82          .20
Price Contingencies                               6.77          5.96          .81
Total                                         28.99        25.97          3.02
Vessels                                           8.47          8.47            -
Physical Contingencies                              .85          .85            -
Price Contingencies                               2.05          2.05            -
Total                                         11.37        11.37             -
Oil Distribution                                  5.73          5.50          .23
Physical Contingencies                            1.15          1.10          .05
Price Contingencies                               1.72          1.64          .08
Total                                          8.60         8.24           .36
Other Civil Works                                 8.42          8.03          .39
Physical Contingencies                            1.68          1.60          .08
Price Contingencies                               1.91          1.81          .10
Total                                         12.01        11.44           .57
Fishing Vessels                                   2.61          2.12          .49
Price Contingencies                                 .76          .60          .16
Total                                          3.37         2.72           .65
Technical Assistance                             15.21         14.00         1.21
Physical Contingencies                            1.52          1.40          .12
Price Contingencies                               5.56          5.10          .46
Total                                         22.29        20.50          1.79
Total Project                                    61.92         57.46         4.46
Physical Contingencies                            7.48          7.00          .48
Price Contingencies                              19.09         17.45         1.64
Overall Total                                    88.49         81.91         6.58
Notes
Price Contingencies:
Foreign costs; year 0 and 1 - 8%, year 3 - 7.5%, year 4 - 7.0%,, year 5-6  - 6.0%
Local costs; year 0 - 15%, year 1 and 2 - 12%, year 3 and following years 10%.



-57-                             ANNEX 5
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
IDA Credit, IFAD and OPEC Fund Loans and NG Grant
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
at end of Quarter
IDA Fiscal Year                                         (US$ M)
and Quarter                      IDA          IFAD       OPEC       NG
1982/83
September 30, 1982              0.0           0.0        0.0       0.0
December 31, 1982               0.0           0.0        0.0       0.0
March 31, 1983                  0.2           0.0        0.0       0.0
June 30, 1983                   0.3           0.1        0.0       0.0
1983/84
September 30, 1983              0.6           0.3        0.1       0.4
December 31, 1983               0.9           0.4        0.1       0.8
March 31, 1984                  1.1           0.5        0.2       0.8
June 30, 1984                   1.3           0.8        0.3       2.5
1984/85
September 30, 1984              1.6           0.9        0.3       2.5
December 31, 1984               2.0           1.3        0.5       2.9
March 31, 1985                  2.7           1.5        0.6       2.9
June 30, 1985                   3.1           1.6        0.7       2.9
1985/86
September 30, 1985              3.5           1.7        0.8       4.1
December 31, 1985               3.7           1.8        0.8       4.1
March 31, 1986                  5.0           2.9        0.9       4.1
June 30, 1986                   4.1           2.0        0.9       4.1
1986/87
September 30, 1986              4.3           2.0        0.9       4.1
December 31, 1986               4.4           2.0        0.9       4.1
March 31, 1987                  4.5           2.0        0.9       4.1
June 30, 1987                   4.6           2.0        0.9       4.1
1987/88
September 30, 1987              4.7           2.0        0.9       4.1
December 31, 1987               4.7           2.0        0.9       4.1
March 31, 1988                  4.8           2.0        0.9       4.1
June 30, 1988                   4.9           2.0        0.9       4.1
1988/89
September 30, 1988              4.9           2.0        0.9       4.1
December 31, 1988               4.9           2.0        0.9       4.1
March 31, 1989                  5.0           2.0        0.9       4.1
June 30, 1989                   5.0           2.0        0.9       4.1



-58-                                          A NEX 6
Table 1
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projection, "Second Generation" Vessels
Year
1        2         3-5       6-8         9       10       11
I. Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 1/  (1)                            60.0       77.3      80.7      80.7    80.7    80.7
Owner Contribution 2/                  4.4
Loan Amount 3/                       82.7
Total Gash Inflow  (2)               87.1      60.0       77.3      80.7      80.7    80.7    80.7
II. Cash Outflow
Operational Costs
Crew Share 4/                                16.8       23.8      23.8      23.8    23.8    23.8
Fuel lubrication 5/                          17.9       17.9      17.9      17.9    17.9    17.9
Maintenance 6/                                1.9        1.9       1.9       1.9      1.9      1.9
Insurance 7/                                  2.6        2.6       2.6       2.6      2.6      2.6
Gear 8/                                       0.7        0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7
Ice 9/                                        4.3        4.3       4.3       4.3      4.3      4.3
Total Operating Costs  (3)                   44.2       51.2      51.2      51.2    51.2    51.2
Investment Costs 10/  (4)            87.1                                       7.0            [15.0]
Debt Service 11/                               ]2.9       11.2       9.0        7.8     7.3      6.7
Total Cash Outlfow  (5)              87.1      57.1       62.4      60.2      66.0    58.5    42.9
III.  Net Cash Flow  (6)                       -       2.9       14.9      20.7      14.7    22.7    37.8
IV.  Financial Benefit-Costs
Benefits (1)  (7)                              60.0       77.3      80.7      80.7    80.7    80.7
Costs (3)+(4) (8)                    87.1      44.2       51.2       51.2      58.2    51.2    36.2
Net Benefits (7)-(8) (9)            [87.1]      15.8      26.1       29.5      22.5    29.5    44.5
Financial Rate of Return:   25.8%
1/   190 fishing days, average catch 300 kg/day, 80% of catch is assumed to be
sold fresh; of fresh fish 40% is assumed smaller than 2 kg (Rf 1.275/kg)
and 60% over 2 kg (Rf 1.725/kg). In year 3 prices are assumed to
increase to Rf 1.35 and Rf 1.80 respectively. 5.5 kg fresh fish gives
1 kg dried, salted fish (Rf 3.00/kg). Catches in year 2 are 75% of those
in year 3 and following years.
2/   5% of investment costs.
3/   Loan covers costs of vessel (Rf 87,130) minus down payment.
4/   40% of gross earnings minus fuel costs.
5/   Fuel consumption is 27.3 litres/fishing day plus 700 litres for 10 trips
to Male. Fuel price Rf 2.90/litre. Lubricat:ion 5% of fuel costs.
6/   Vessel repair and maintenance Rf 1,900/year.
7/   3% of vessel value.
8/   Poles, baitnets, hooks Rf 700/year.
9/   190 days @ 100 kg at Rf .225/kg.
10/  Replacement value after 11 years, Rf 15,000.  Major engine overhaul in
year 9 (Rf 7,000).
11/  Vessels could be given to fishermen on hire purchase basis; annual lease
would amount to cost of loan amount (Rf 82,700) amortized over 10 years
at 9% interest (current rate on engine loans). Lease is discounted at 7%.



ANNEX 6
-59-                                                               Table 2
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projectioni - Oil Distribution System
(Rf '000)
Year
1          2           3           4           5          6        7-11         12        13-14       15
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales Fuel 1/            (1)                                 8,288       11,051      11,051     11,051     11,051     11,051     11,051      11,051
Borrowers Contribution 2/                    344       2,404       1,436          374
Loan Amouint 3/                              344       2,404          687
Total Cash Inflow              (2)           688       4,808      10,411       11,425      11,051     11,051     11,051     11,051     11,051      11,051
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Purchase of Fuel 4/                                              6,383       8,510        8,510      8,510      8,510      8,510      8,510      8,510
Salaries 5/                                             45         105          105         105        105        105        105         105        105
Wages 6/                                                           212          212         212        212        212        212         212        2i2
Mainteniance and Repair 7/                                          300         300         300        300        300        300         300        300
Insurance 8/                                                       140          140         140        140        140        140         140        140
Office Expenses _2                                                   10          10          10         10         10          10         10         10
Interest on Working Capital 10/                                    277          277
Bonuses 11/                                                          20          20          20         20         20         20          20         20
Total Operating Costs        (3)                        45       7,447       9,574        9,297      9,297      9,297      9,297      9,297       9,297
Management Assistance 12/   (4)                                       949         374
Investment Costs 13/           (5)           688       4,808       1,374                                                        750                [1,500]
Debt Service 14/                                                                              746        694        561        449         403        361
Net Cash Outlfow               (6)           688       4,853       9,570        9,948      10,043      9,991      9,858    10,496        9,700      8,158
III.  Net Cash Flow  (2)-(6)         (7)              -         [45]        841       1,477        1,008      1,060      1,193        555      1,351      2,893
IV.  Cumulative Cash Flow                            -         [451        796       2,273        3,281      4,341     10,306     10,861     13,571           -
V.  Financial Benefit-Costs
Benefits (1)                   (8)             -            -      8,288       11,051      11,051     11,051     11,051     11,051     11,051      11,051
Costs (3)+(4)+(5)              (9)           688       4,853       9,570        9,948       9,297      9,297      9,297     10,047       9,297      7,797
Net Benefits (8)-(9)           (10)         [6881    [4,853]       [1,282]      1,103       1,754      1,754      1,754         904      1,754      3,254
Financial Race of Return:  18%
1/   The project would sell fuel to (a) 700 mechanized vessels operating as fishing vessels (305), tourist vessels (125) and transport vessels
(270). Annual fuel consumption at full development would be 5,887 litres for fishing vessels north of Male (225 vessels), 5,068 litres
south of Male (80 vessels), 1,800 litres for tourist vessels and 4,275 litres for transport vessels. Transport vessels would buy 25% of
their fuel needs directly from Male. Total consumption 3.109 million litres annually. Fuel price would be CIF price Male (Rf 2.14) + 20%
handling charges plus Rf .35 distribution charge. In addition, fuel distribution division would sell 468,000 litres annually to fish
collection and freezing division of STO, and an estimated 300,000 litres to the cannery at CIF costs plus 20% handling charge plus
Rf .10/litre distribution charge. Fuel consumption in year 3 would be 75% of that in year 4 and following years.
2/   Total investment Rf 6.871 million; borrowers contribution 50%.  10% of investment would occur in year 1, 70% in year 2 and 20% in year 3.
Borrowers contribution would include funds for management assistance (Rf 1,123,000).
3/   Total investment Rf 6.871 million.  Loan would be over 11 years at 13% interest.  Interest would be capitalized over first 3 years.  10% of
investment would occur in year 1, 70% in year 2 and 20% in year 3.
4/   Fuel purchase would be 3,877 million litres for distribution plus 0.1 million litres to fuel the tankers (operating 140 days a year at 12
hours a day at 140 hP at 0.2 litre/HP/hour).  This would be equivalent to 3,380 MT CIF Maldives.  Fuel price would be Rf 2.14/litre or
US$361/MT.
5/   One manager - Rf 45,000/year.
Two middle level managers - Rf 16,000/year each.
Two captains - Rf 14,000/year each.
6/   Technicians (2) - Rf 10,000/year.
Clerks arLd fuel retailers (16) - Rf 7,500/year.
Laborers (12) - Rf 6,000/year.
7/   2% of tarLk costs annually, 4% of tanker costs.
8/   2% of total costs.
9/   Rf 10,000 annually.
To/  In year 3 and 4 working capital would amount to 25% of 3 months' oil supply.  Interest rate 13%.
11/ 9.5% of wages.
12/  Managemernt Assistance:  18 m/m at Rf 45,500 per month plus travel and per diem (Rf 202,000) and a 10% physical contingency (total Rf 1,123,000).
13/ Total investment Rf 6.871 million.
14/  Interest at 13% is capitalized over first 4 years, repayment over 11 years, discounted at 7%.



-60-                                                                              ANNEX 6
Table 3
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projection - Fish Collection and Freezing System
(Rf 'o 0W)
1          2            3            4           5           6        7-11         12         13-14       15
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales Fish 1!                                                   12,358       20,968    25,169       25,169      25,169      25,169     25,169      25,169
Other Income 2/                                                            68         273         273         273    _273            273        273         273
Total Gross Income (1)                                              12,426       21,241     25,442      25,442     25,442      25,442      25,442     25,442
Borrowers Contribution 3/                       432        3,275       3,905        3,042       1,267
Loan Amount 4!                                3,885      27,197        7,771       ___    ______
Total Cash Inflow  (2)                        4,317      30,434       23,359       23,540      26,517     25,442      25,442     25,442      25,442      25,442
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Purchase of Fish 5/                                                  5,616        8,424      9,360       9,720       9,720      9,720       9,720      9,720
Purchase of F,el 6!                                                    977        1,303      1,303       1,303       1,303      1,303       1,303       1,303
Salaries 7!                                    50          100         670          670         670        670         670        670         670         670
Wages 8!                                       25          175       1,244        1,244      1,244       1,244       1,244      1,244       1,244       1,244
Maintenance and Repair 9!                                              432        1,727       1,727      1,727       2,158      2,158       2,158       2,158
Insurance 10!                                                          863          863        863         863        ,363        863         863        863
Marketing Expenses 11/                                                 508          177         177        177         177         177        177         177
Office Expenses 12/
Interest on Working Capital 13!                13          130         520          520
Miscellaneous 14/                                                        75          75          75         75          75
Bonuses 15/                                                             75          100         125        125         125         125        125         125
Total Operating Costs  (3)                     88          405      11,030       15,153     15,594      15,954     16,385      16,385      16,385     16,385
Management Contract 16/ (4)                                  253       3,042        3,042       1,267
Investment Costs 17/ (5)                      4,317      30,219        8,634                                                      4,000                 110,0003
Debt Service 18/                                                                                9,596      8,924       7,215      4,773       5,181       4,643
Net Cash Outifow  (6)                         4,405      30,877       22,706       18,195     26,457      24,878      23,600     26,158      21,566      11,028
III.  Net Cash Flow  (2)-(6) (7)                       388]        [405]      1,396        6,088         252         564      1,842        [716]     3,876      14,414
IV.  Cumulative Net Cash Flow                         [88]        493          903        6,991      7,243       7,007     17,017      16,301     24,053            -
V. Financial Benefit-Costs
Benefits (1)           (8)                                            12,358       21,241     25,442      25,442      25,442     25,442      25,442      25,442
Costs (3)+(4)+(5)   (9)                       4,405      30,877       22,706       18,195     16,861      15,954      16,385     20,385      16,385       6,385
Net Benefits (8)-(9) (10)                    [4,4051   [30,877]    [10,3481         3,046       8,581      9,488       9,057       5,057      9,057      19,057
VI.  Financial Rate of Return:  12%
1/   Fish exports in year 3 would be 50% of 6,000 MT, 70% in year 4 and 75% in following years.  FOB fish prices would be CIF fish price West Coast
of USA minus shipping charges (U1S$250/MT).  CIF prices would be UIS$750 in year 3, U)5$800/MT in year 4 and E and US$850/bfT in following
years. IC addition, the project would sell frozen fish in the Middle East starting in year 4 (10% of 6,000 MT) and 15% in year 5
and following years.  Prices would be US$900/MT CIF Kuwait minus US$200 shipping charges.  The project would sell 5% of 6,000 MT locally at
UJS$80O/MT starting in year 3.  5% of plant throughput would be dried and salted and sold at US$85/MT fresh fish equivalent.
2/   In year 4 and following years the project would sell 1,080 MT ice at Rf 225/MT.  Slipping charges would be Rf 2,000 for 15 non-project
vessels annually. Year 3 would be 25% of year 4.
3/   10% of total investment (Rf 43,170,000) (see Annex 4), and cost of management contract (Rf 7,604,000).
T/   9O% of total investment (Rf 43,170,000).  10% of total investment is incurred in year 1, 70% in year 2 and 20% in year 3.  Loan would be between
CON and STO over 11 years at 13% interest. Interest would be capitalized over first 3 years.
5/   Fish purchases would be 3,600 MT in year 3, 5,400 MT in year 4, and 6,000 MT in year 5 and following years.  The project would pay Rf 1,275
MT for fish smaller than 2 kg and Rf 1,725 for fish over 2 kg.  It is assumed that 40% is smaller than 2kg.  Prices would increase to Rf
1,350 and Rf 1,800 respectively in year 6 and the following years.
6/   Plant would use about 800 MWh currently at 4 KWh/litre of fuel plus 5% four lubrication.  Fuel price would be STO CIF Male price of Rf
2.12/litre plus 13% tax and miscellaneous charges and Rf .25 handling ciarge.  4 collector vessels would use 228,000 litres annually; 2
lighter barges 10,000 litres and the transport vessel 30,000 litres. All vessels would consume .2 litre/HP/hour. Collector vessels would
operate 8 hours/day at full capacity 300 days a year.  Fuel consumption in year 3 is 75% of foliowing years.
7/   In year 1 total costs for management would be Af 50,000, Rf 100,000 in year 2.  In year 3 the following staff would be employed:
Top Manager (5)                Rf 65,000/year
Middle Management (11)         Rf 21,000/year
Captains (6)                   Rf 19,000/year
8/   In year 1 staff costs would be Rf 25,000, Rf 175,000 in year 2.  In year 3 the following work force would be employed:
Technicians (40)               Rf 15,000/year
Foremen (9)                    Rf 10,000/year
Laborers (80)                  Rf  6,925/year
9/   Year 3, 1% of investment costs, year 4-6 4% of investment costs, year 7 and following years 5% of investment costs.
To/ 2% of investment costs.
I1/  Rf 508,000 in year 1, and 35% in following years.
12/ Rf 50,000/year.
13/  Working capital estimated at Rf 100,000 for year 1, Rf 1 million for year 2, Rf 4 million for year 3 and 4.  Interest 13% per annum.
14/ Rf 75,000/year.
15/  Bonuses: 5% of labor costs in year 3, 6.75% in year 4, and 8.5% in year 5 and following years.
16/  Total management assistance amounts to 120 m/m plus overhead, travel and a 10% physical contingency (total Rf 7,604,000).  Assistance
would be limited in year 2 to 4 m/m, 48 ml. in year 3 and 4 and 20 m/m Is year 5.
17/  Investment costs are Rf 43.170 million of which 10% in year 1, 70% in year 2, and 20% in year 3.  Rest value Rf 10,000,000.
Th! Interest of 13% is capitalized over first 4 years, repayment over 11 yeatrs. Repayment is discounted at 7%.



-61-                                                       ANNEX 7
Table I
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
With-Withast Project Analysis - Project I'p-ct orls N-project Vessels
Fishing Vessels        Fishing Vessels
North of Male          South of MSle          Tourist Vessels        TransFort Vs-slu
(FVNM)                 (FVSM)                    (TV)                  (TRV)
Years                  Years                    Years                  Years
1-3       4- 15        1 - 3         15         1 - 3    4 -15           - 3       -1I
I. Nithout Froajeot
Grons  Solos 1/                        40.7       40.7        29.1       29.1          36.0       36.0        31.2        31.2
Operoting Costs
Cre-  Shere 2/                       11.2       11.2         7.2        7.2           5.0        5.0         4.8        4.8
Fool 3/                             12.6        12.6        11.1       11.1           5.0        5.0        14.5       14.5
Meinteoancead Repair 4/               1.1        1.5         1.5        1.5           2.0        2.0         1.5         1.5
Iesoronce 5/                           .5         .5          .5         .5           .5          .5           5          .0
ee.r 6/                                .7         .7          .7         .7                                   .3          .3
Tntol Oper-ting Costs                  26.5       26.5        21.0       21.0          12.5       12.5        21.6       21.6
(Value added)                          25.4       25.4        15.3       15.3          28.5       28.5        14.4       14.4
II . Withs Pro ject
Gross Soles 8/                         40.7       64.4        29.1       45.3          36.0       45.0        31.2       45.0
Operatilg Costs
Crew Shore 9/                       11.2        10.6         7.2       12.0          5.0         6.0         4.8        6.0
Fuel 10,'                           12.6        17.9        11.1       15.4          5.0         5.5        14.5       17.8
Maiotenance and Repair 11/            1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5           2.0        2.0         1.5         1.5
Insorence 12/                          .5         .5          .5         .5            .5         .5          .5         .5
leer 13/                               .7         .7          .7         .7                                   .3          .3
Li-cese 14/                                                                          1.5         5.0
Total Operating Costs                  26.5       39.2        21.0       30.1          14.0       19.0        21.6       26.1
(Value Added)                         25.4        4308        15.3       27.2         28.5        36.0        14.4       24.9
III.  AlthIne  Pro-t
N-. of Ve-eels :5/                    16;1       130          60         50            75        150         405        380
Gruos  Soles Fleet 16/             6,512      5,291        1,746      1,455        2,700      5,400       12,636     11,856
Value Added Fl-et 10/              4,064      3,302          918        765        2,138      4,275        5,711      5,472
IV.  With Projeco
N.. of vesoels 19/                    160        225          60         0c           75         125         405        270
louss Soles Fleet 20/              6,512    14,490         1,746      3,624        2,700      5,625      12,636      12,150
Vflon Added Fleet 22/              4,064      9,855          918      2,176        2,138      4,500        5,711      6,723
V. With-Withest
Value added Fleet 23/                   -     6,553            -      1,411             -        225           -      1,251   +9,440
1/   FVNM: 140 fishing dIyf  on 250 kg/day.  70% of ontoh is sold frash.  Of fresh fish 40% is soaller thea  2 kg
(Rf 1.10/kg) and 60% over 2 kg (Rf 1.5/kg).  4 kg fresh fish will give 1 kg dried fish (Rf 3.00/kg).
FVfM: id-e, Sot catch is 220 kg/day, nith 120 fiaho-g days.  601 of catch is toesumd fresh.
Tv: 180 uporeraig days an Rf 200/day.
TRV:  26 mood  eips at Rf I,200/trip.
2/   FVNM:  40% of gross caroings oins foal cones.
F7V7 : ides.
TV: 2 crew at Rf 2,500/year.
TRV: 4 creu at Rf 1,200/year.
3/   FVlM: Foal consuFpti-n Is 27.3 litras/fishing day.  To deli-er dried fish to MEls, 10 trips Q 70 litras  ree
neaded. Fuel costs result at torrent Rf 2.65/eitr. Lubrication costs 5% of fuel costs.
FVfM: id6a.
TV:  foal co-sumptins  14 litres/day.  Fsel coste Rf 2.65/litre.  Luhricatin costs 5% of fuel costs.
TRV: Fuel  .no...ptin- 3.0 litres/hour.  fech trip takes S  hours.  Fuel costs oar  Rt 3.20/litre is MNal
aed Rf 2.65/lItre ourside MSle.  VPstels  -ueld by 25% of their foal neads is Sole.  Lubricatin-costs X5
of fucl ucosts.
4/   FVBO:  About 14  of vessel repl--aoent velue.
FVSM: ides.
TV: lde-.
PTR: ides.
5/   FVFI0:  3.5% uf engtnceulue.
PVSM: ides.
TO: idea.
TOP: i/at.
6/   FOVl:  polas, net etc. Rf 700/year.
FVSM: idea.
TV: ----
TRV: Sell reFlacemeet etc. Rf 300/year.
7/   Cross soles rinus  total operating costs plst craw share.
Foe all vassals, coats and earninRs in year 1-3 of ,,th pro Ject sttution  re  equal to without projacE sitsation.
B/   FVN2: Cotch/daFy  ill remain 250 kg/day.  lsbher of fish-ng days will Inrease to  190.  80% of catch is sold
frash. On year 4 fresh fish prices increase to Rf 1.35 end Rf 1.80/kg.
FVSM: Gutdh/day r-ains  ot 220 kg/day, n.aber of fishing days i-creasas to  160.  Fish prices i-crease as
north of Sole.
TV: Day _eroings will lncra... to Rf 250/day.
TRV: 30 trips at Rf 1,500/trip.
9/   BVNM:  As withlut situetion.
BOSM: As without situaticn.
TB:  Craw eatings icresas  to Rf 3,000/yeer.
TRV: Crew earnings incre.as to Rf 1,500/yaer.
I/  Fuel prices would increase in year 4 in project area  to Rf 2.90/litre.  Rest as without prsjact situetitu.
11/  As sithout situatio.
12/  As without sittation.
13/  Ad eitholt situation.
14/  TV: Assonad license  fee far tourist vessels (starting in year 1) Rf 1,500 te  be increased iA  yaar 5 to Rf 5,050.
15/  Asssmad nuhber of vessels in op-stion in the projct area: 700, of which all vessels not engaged in fishisg
or tonri-s are considered trsnusprt Fessais. Figures reflect best estimstes of c-rrent vessel
deplayment .
16/  N. of vessels  tes gross solos indivldval vesseis.
17/  N.. of vessels times  operting ests tndividnal vesses.
18/  No. of vessels times ealue added individual oessels.
19/  Projett area is expected totttrac e5 vessels fro= othar occupations ba-k to industry.
20/  Na. of oessels tines gross Is.as indioidual vessels.
21/  Ni. of vessels tines aper-ting teats individual vessels.
22/  NI. of Iesases simes value added individaal vessels.
23/  Valee edd/d with project sinus raise add/d aithout pFoject.



-62-                                 ANNEX 7
Tabl=e2
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Disposition of Fish Catch With and Without Project
(MT)
Years
1        2         3         4         5       6-15
Without Project
I. Fish Catch
North of Male
Mechanized Vessels 1/               ',600    5,600    5,600    4,550    4,550    4,550
Other 2/                            2,900    2,900    2,900    2,900    2,900    2,900
South of Male
Mechanized Vessels 31               1,600    1,600    1,600    1,300    1,300    1,300
Other 4/                            2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500
Total                              12,600   12,600   12,600   11,250   11,250   11,250
II.  Disposition of Catch
Frozen Fish
MFC 5/                                  -       300       500       700       700       700
Private Companies 6/                1,000    1,200    1,600    1,800    1,800    1,800
Canned Fish 7/                         3,500    3,200    3,000    2,800    2,800    2,800
Dried Fish 8T                          5,500    5,200    5,000    3,700    3,400    3,100
Local Consumption 9/                   2,600    2,700    2,500    2,250    2,550    2,850
Total                              12,600   12,600   12,600   11,250   11,250   11,250
With Project
III. Incremental Fish Catch
North of Male
Mechanized vessels 10/                  -         -       299    6,835    7,191    7,191
Other                                   _ -                 -         -         -         -
South of Male
Mechanized vessels 11/                  -         -         -    1,496    1,496    1,496
Other                                   _         -                   -         -         -
Total                                   -         -       299    8,331    8,687    8,687
IV. Disposition of Incremental Catch
Frozen Fish
STO 12/                                 -         -    3,600    5,100    5,700    5,700
Cannery and Private Company 13/         -         -         -    1,931    1,687    1,687
Dried Fish 14/                             -         -         -    1,300    1,300    1,300
Total                                   -         -    3,600    8,331    8,687    8,687
1/   Annex 7, Table 1.
2/   Based on 1980 catch statistics, does include 500 MT caught by vessels from Male.
3/   Annex 7, Table 1.
4/   Based on 1980 catch statistics.
5/   Assumes that MFC starts exports of frozen fish with existing facilities.
Assumes that private company will expancL current operations.
T/   Based on 1980 production estimates; assumes reduction of production due to
increase of production of frozen fish.
8/   Based on 1980 production; lower production in year 4 and following years
caused by reduction in fishing efforts cf mechanized fleet.
9/   Approximately 40 kg/caput/year.
10/  Annex 8, Table 2.
11/  Idem.
12/  Idem. Production of 3,600 MT in year 3 reflects use of fish which would have
been used for dried fish in without project situation.
13/  Annex 8, Table 2.
T5/  Idem.



-63-                                Annex 8
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project has been
calculated as presented in Table 1. The economic benefits of the
project would consist of:
(i) the value of the incremental catch produced by the
project vessels and existing fishing fleet;
(ii) the value of slipway services provided to vessels
from outside the project area; and
(iii) the incremental benefits to the transportation and tourism
sectors.
Since allocating investment and operating costs between the fishing and
other sectors would be subjective, as many fishing vessels often switch
t:o and from transport, no separate economic analysis has been provided
for the return to the fishery and non-fishery sectors. However, to
demonstrate the limited influence of non fishery sector benefits on the
project an ERR without non-fishing sector benefits has been calculated
(para 6).
2.        The incremental catch of the project would be sold as detailed
in Table 2. Frozen fish would be exported to:
(i) the canneries throughout the world as raw material for
canned tuna; and
(ii) the Middle East, for direct local consumption;
(iii) to Male, for local consumption (Annex 6, Table 3, footnote 1).
Ihe exported frozen fish would be handled by STO (5,400 MT) and by and
the private company operating in the project area (1,687 MT). Benefits
related to fish which would not be exported by STO have been reduced by
handling and freezing costs.
3.        The economic costs of the project constitute:
(i) investment and operating costs exclusive of fuel costs
of project fishing vessels;
(ii) incremental investment, fuel procurement and operating costs
of the fuel distribution component, exclusive of procurement
and handling costs of fuel sold to the cannery;



-64-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
(iii) Investment and operating costs of the refrigeration complex,
exclusive of the costs of procuring fish and fuel; and
(iv) The costs of staff training and management contracts.
The incremental operating costs of the existing mechanized fleet is
considered to be limited to increased fuel costs, and have been included
in overall incremental procurement cosl:s of fuel.
4.        For the economic analysis it has been assumed that the current
commercial foreign exchange represents the actual value of the Rufiyaa,
and that the conversion factor for non-tradables for Maldives is 1. All
economic costs of the project have been assumed to be equal to the
financial costs, except in the case of labor on board the fishing ves-
sels, which has been valued at the level of return to labor in the
without project situation. Fish prices used in the calculation of
economic benefits are the same as financial prices, which reflect world
market prices minus shipping and handling charges. The economic price
for locally sold fish is taken to be the world market price minus tran-
sport costs.
5.        The effect of the project on the existing fleet has been
summarized in Annex 7, Table 1. It has been assumed that the number of
tourist vessels would decrease from 150 to 125. The change in the
number of tourist vessels would be a reflection of:
(i)  the part-time character of thle use of mechanized vessels
by the resorts; and
(ii)  ongoing construction of larger tourist transport vessels
by the resorts, which are expected to replace mechanized
fishing vessels.
The reduction of the number of transport vessels would be the result of
the introduction of ADB financed coastal carriers, and also reflect the
increasing profitability of fishing operations.
6.        On the basis of the above assumptions the ERR of the project
would be 27%. If the estimated sunk costs of investment in the existing
fishing fleet (Rf 12 million) are included in the analysis, the ERR
drops to 20%, confirming the profitability of investment in the sector.
If non-sector benefits are excluded from project benefits (para 1) the
ERR is 26%.



MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Investment Costs                                       Incremental Operating Costs                Incremental Benefits
Benefits to
Tourist and             Incremental
Project         Fuel  2/    Fish  3/   Management 4/                Project          Fuel  6/    Fish  7/              Sale of   Transport                   Net
Years  Vessels 1/  Distribution  Collection   Training             Total   Vessels 5/  Distribution  Collection  Total  Fish 8/             Vessels    Total    Benefits
1        _             688          4,317          970         5,975          -                -            88         88        -          -             -    (6,063)
2      610           4,808          30,219         930         36,567         -                -           405        405        -          -             -   (36,972)
3      610           1,374          8,634        4,330        14,948        115           2,067          4,437    9,398  10,665             -       10,665   (13,681)
4      523               -               -       2,870          3,393       230           3,724          5,426    9,380  26,785           519       27,304      14,531
5         -              -               -       1,000          1,000       328           3,526          4,931    8,785  28,742           519       29,261      19,476
6         -              -               -       1,000          1,000       328           3,526          4,931    8,785  30,907           519       31,426    21,641
7         -              -               -           -              -       328           3,526          5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426    22,210
8         -              -               -           -              -       328           3,526          5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426    22,210
9         -              -               -           -              -       328           3,526          5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426      22,210
10         -              -               -           -              -       328           3,526          5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426    22,210
11         -              -               -           -              -       328           3,526          5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426    22,210
12         -            750           4,000           -          4,750       328           3,526          5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426      17,460
13      610                               -           -            610       328           3,526          5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426    21,600
14      610                               -           -            610       328            3,526         5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426    21,600                1
15   (1,053)         (1,500)       (10,000)           -       (12,553)       328            3,526         5,362    9,216  30,907           519       31,426      34,763             t
Internal Rate of Return   27%
1/ Economic Investment cost per vessel Rf 87,100 equals financial cost (Annex 6, Table 1); seven vessels in year 1, seven in year 2 and six
in year 3.
2/ Economic cost equals financial costs (Annex 6, Table 2).
3/ Economic cost equals financial costs (Annex 6, Table 3).
4/ Rconomic cost equals financial costs (Annex 6, Table 2).
5/  Operating costs less cost of fuel and ice (Annex 6, Table 1).  The latter costs are included in column (6) and (7) respectively.  Economic
costs equal to financial costs except crew wages which are priced at "without project" returns.
6/ CIF value (Rf 2.14/litre) of incremental value of fuel used (1.28 million litres) plus operating costs for the fuel distribution system
(Annex 6, Table 2).
7/ Excludes cost of fuel and fish purchased (Annex 6, Table 3).
8/ See Annex 8, Table 2. Figures incltude Rf 30,000 per year in income to STO from servicing non-project vessels.
9/  Consists of incremental income to fleet (see Annex 7, Table 1).  Incremental fuel costs are included in operating costs for fuel
distribution (column 7).
HD



-66--                          ANNEX 8
-66.-  ~ ~    ~    ~     !iiTale 2
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Sources and Disposition of Incremental Production Under Project
Year
Sources                               1       2       3          4           5        6-1
Incremental Catches (MT)
Project Vessels 1/                  -       -         299       698      1,054      1,054
Existing Fleet 27                   -       -           -     7,633      7,633      7,633
Total                               -       -        299      8,331      8,687      8,687
Disposition: Quantity (MT)
By STO 3/
Export frozen                    -      -       3,600      4,800      5,400      5,400
Export dried                    -       -           -        300        300        300
Sold locally, frozen            -       -        _           300        300        300
Subtotal                                        3,600      5,400      6,000      6,000
By Others
Export frozen 4/                 -      -           -      7,931      1,687      1,687
Export dried 57                  -      -           -      1,000      1,000      1,000
Subtotal                        _       -           -      2,931      2,687      2,687
Total Quantity                      -        -     3,600      8,331      8,687      8,687
Disposition: Value (Rf 1,000)
By STO 6/
Export frozen 7/                 -      -      10,635    19,110    21,735    23,310
Export dried                    -       -           -        180        180        180
Sold locally, frozen            -       -           -      1,680      1,680      1,680
Subtotal                        -       -      10,635    20,970    23,595    25,170
By others
Export frozen 8/                 -      -           -      5,285      4,617      5,207
Export dried 97                 _       -           -        500        500        500
Subtotal                        _       -           -      5,785      5,117      5,707
Total Value                                       10,635    26,755    28,712    30,877
Average price Rf /MT                  -       -      2,954      3,211      3,305      3,554
US$/MT                 -      -         422        459        472        508
1/  Annex 6, Table 1, footnote 1.  Seven vessels operating in year 3, 14 in
year 4 and 20 in year 5.
2/ Annex 7, Table 1, footnotes 1 and 8.
3/ Annex 6, Table 3, footnote 1. Of 3,600 MT handled for export as frozen in
year 3, 299 MT obtained from project vessels and balance from non-incremental
catch by existing fishing fleet.
4/ Assumed disposed of by existing fleet to coLlector vessels operated by other
companies and exported frozen.
5/ Processed by fishermen/traders and STO and shipped to Sri Lanka.
6/ Based on prices as shown in Annex 6, Table ], footnote 1.
7/ Part of value for year 3 contains value associated with upgrading disposition
of 3,300 MT obtained from existing fleet (see footnote 3) i.e. freezing for
exports rather than drying.
8/ Valued at FOB price Male less Rf 1,113/MT processing/handling charge.
9/ Valued at FOB price (Rf 595/MT fresh weight equivalent) less Rf 95 in processing
costs.



-67-
ANNEX 8
Table 3
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Aggregated Streams for Base Case
Total                 Total                  Net
Incremental           Incremental           Incremental
Periods            Benefits                Costs                Benefits
1                   0.0                 6,063.0            -  6,063.0
2                   0.0                36,972.0            - 36,972.0
3              10,665.0                24,346.0            - 13,681.0
4              27,304.0                12,773.0               14,531.0
5              29,261.0                  9,785.0              19,476.0
6              31,426.0                 9,785.0              21,641.0
7-11            31,426.0                  9,216.0              22,210.0
12             31,426.0                13,966.0              17,460.0
13-14            31,426.0                  9,826.0              21,600.0
15             31,426.0               - 3,337.0              34,763.0
Sensitivity Tests
ERR
1.  Benefits down 10%                                         23%
2.  Benefits down 30%                                          14%
3.  Operating Costs up 20%                                     24%
4.  Operating Costs up 50%                                     19%
5.  Investment Costs up 20%                                    22%
6.  Benefits delayed 2 years                                   14%
7.  Benefits delayed 2 years and all costs up 20%              10%
Switching Values
Discount Rate               Percentage Change from Best Estimate
Benefits   Investment Costs   Operating Costs
13%                     -31%            +89%                 +94%



-6 8-
ANNEX 9
Table 1
Page 1
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHE]RIES PROJECT
STO Selected Financial Data
(Rf million)
A. 1L979
Change
in
Item                               Purchases    Sales    Stock   Profit/Loss
Total Imports                         57.8         54.0     +8.8        5.0
of which
essential commodities             48.9         46.7       +7.1       4.9
others                             8.9          7.3       +1.7       0.1
Total Exports                                                         [0.04]
Foreign Exchange Transactions                                           3.5
Other                                                                   4.1
Total                                                                  12.6
B. 1980
Total Imports                        101.6         83.1    -+26.3       7.6
of which
essential commodities             79.2         69.4    -+17.5        7.7
others                            22.4         13.7       +8.8       0.1
Total Exports                                                           0.3
Foreign Exchange Transactions                                           5.8
Other                                                                   3.3
Total                                                                  17.0



-69-
ANNEX 9
Table 1
Page 2
C. 1981
Change
in
Item                               Purchases    Sales    Stock   Profit/Loss
Total Imports                        93.6         99.7      +3.5        9.3
of which
essential commodities             75.8         81.4      +2.3       7.6
others                            17.8         18.3      +1.2       1.7
Total Exports                                      6.8                   .7
Foreign Exchange Transactions                                           6.3
Other                                                                   2.3
Total                                                                  12.6
Source: Unaudited reports from STO.



-70-                           ANNEX 10
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.   Present Fishing Situation
2.   Detailed Investment Costs Estimates
3.   IDA - Maldives Second Fisheries Project Preparation Mission Report,
January 1982.
4.   T.R. Wingate - Survey of World Market Trend with Particular Reference
to Europe, May 1982.
5.   FAO - Fishery Commodity Situation and Outlook, May 1981.
6.   IMF - Maldives - Recent Economic Developments, March 1982.
7.   GOM - Revised Feasibility Report on Revised Fishwealth Exploitation
Project, May 1982.
8.   GOM/IDA - Terms of Reference for Consulting Services in Maldives,
June 1982.
9.   API - Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage, November 1980.
10. ADB - Appraisal of the Interisland Transport Project: of the Republic
of Maldives, May 1981.
11. Estimates of Fish Catches in Project Area at Full Development,
June 1982.



MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Organizational Structure, State Trading Organization
Managing Director
|    Asst. Manager    |                          l       Director        l                                  |      Asst Director                                          Asst. Manager
| Joint Ventures  ll                                   Administretionr
GSM/STQ             Ga~ilvrlient                 Fxports                 Import of Non-                    Foreign                    mport Of
Molaives Ltd  Section              essentia commoctitier                Exchange                    Essential                   Budget
Section  essentia C                         ~~~SectiongCmotte                                                                   Shops
Trade Information Unit               Fooa Control Department                  Wholesale Operations                             Co  Storge
Worid Bank-24475



MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1982             1983                    1984                    1985                    1986                    1987                     1988
3    4      1    2    3    4        1    2      3    4      1    2      3    4      1    2    3    4        1     2     3     4     1     2    3    4
CONSULTANTS
Design and Procurement Team
Supervision Teamn                                    .......
Training Specialist
Management Team                                    ......... ....
Fuel Distribution Specialist                       .........
Accounting Specialist                              ....
Project Preparation Team                                                         .... ....
TRjAINING
aocal Training                                            -     -     -     -     -     -     -
Fareign Training-                                              -
CONSTRUCTION
Civil Works, Refrigeration Complex            .        .........
Infrastructure
Jetty                                        . .         ....
Barge Loaaout                             t
Slibway                                      .    .        ....
Workshop                                     .  r      ....
Housing                                      .  |      ....
Water supply                                 .    .. ....
Crane
Small Fuel Tanks
Large Fuel Tanks                               . .         ....
Tankers.......
Collector Vessels                              . .         .....
Barges                                           t
Transport Vessel 
TFishng Vessels
........ .Recruitment
_- - Design
........ ..Proctirement
-           mplementation                                                                                                                                                     World Banok 24445



ORGANIZATION TABLE
SECOND FISHERY PROJECT
Fuel Distribution
ISLANDS
(Fuel Tanks)         LHAVIYANI                     MALE
FUEL DISTRIBUTION        -      COUNTERPART
MANAGER                I   EXPATR. 2 YEARS
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF               SEA GOING STAFF
OIL SUPPLIES         - FUEL PURCHASE CLERK 1                CAPTAINkers
MANAGER 1           - ACCOUNTANT           1             _
- SECRETARIAT          5             - ENGINEERS 2
.   - S ER ETARI AT   5- CR EWM EN  12
FUEL
DISTRIBUTERS
11
World Bank - 23353



ORGANIZATION TABLE
SECOND FISHERY PROJECT
Fish Collection and Freezing
LHAVIYANI                                                                                 MALE HO
PROJECT         |        PROCUREMENT SPECIALISTI
DI.RECTOR (STO)             f EXPATRIATE -6 MONTHS I
1  - -~~~   EXPATRIATE  I        I ~GEEXPATRAEL-                                    LN MANAGER CNMERCARCUNERAR
I   ,   L                                          M EXPATRIATE         -        E
l   l   j  L   3 YEARS                                                   3ER
|MARINE MANAGERFL             C-OUNTRATlr-__njPATMNGRl.|CMAIkGERLLr--- 
1  _4   EXPATRIATE                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPATRIATE             PLASSISTANTPANET                 SECRGETRIATXARIT
,  2 YEARS       t        i          2 YE ARS          t                           I i                                                L        3YAR  
g   TRAINING CONSULTANT    !                       }               ,  f      SECRETARAMNRI
EXP                                                                                                               SEARI SSSISTANT PLANT  5V
|VESSEL-OPERATOR||    SHP                MAINTENANCE ||        WRSO                     PLANT      1rll                                                                      
| A CR     US !|NRPI || SUPERVISSR   U            I                  E REMAN               SUPERVISORSUPERVISOR
COLL. VESSELS                         |EFRI                                                              SUPERVISO
-CAPTAIN        5        LABOURER                                                   E I  I                                                                                     FISHBUYERS
E   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~SIIAY                                                                                                                                           VESSE LIJETTY
C NGINEER       5           2OKHO 
COOKS          5                         FOR EMAN                                               WORKS BUFFERST6FREEZING/
-CEWMEN       18                             1RECORD CLERK I
CR  SIT             - REF                                            STORING                                    I..F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORMEN  I             ACCOUNTANT       I
LIGHTERS                                                 - MECHANIC        1                                                  CRANE OPERATOR 3     CRANE OPERATOR 3                                  PURCHASE ASST  1
IGHTERSRNE                                                         F  LE  1LABOURER                                                            8     TRACTOR DRIVER 3                                 CEKSAF 1
- BOATMEN      4                                         -  ELERICA- CRANEOPERATORS6
- BOAT REPAIR    1                           TRUCK DRIVERS   4
-CARPENTER       1                         -LABOURER         15
FISHBIUYERS
(SEE PLANT)    I
LABOURER S                                                      LAEOURER 10
W-rId Bank 23354



-75-
MALD IVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Suggested layout of FISH PROCESSING PLANT
Loading area
and basket                 FROZEN FISH STORE
storage.                        250 tonne
L     0                                                       -             ICE STORE
250tonn_150tonne
U-  XK=         -                                              5: 
:D   CO
>_ c:   S          FROZEN FISH STORE                           s
Ui   1                        250 tonne
LL 
ft     . |   ~FISH FREEZING*          TANKS- +                                      _
WATER TREATMENT and STORES        GENERATOR    | REFRIGERATION MACHINERY and WORKSHOP
STAT ION     |
W                                                        -
1-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oi <Bank-24000 TOR






2                        CO i                                                                                                   0 g
i)    .8                                            9^ o1                                                                                                                                     0 )X<e
-n-n
a 9, '! rX g \ a\^ tw [{ 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9 O v < 
k~0! ,w'                                                   mt 9v<
~~~~:,o   nn n
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                                                              .,    _                                                                                  _C
F   0~~~  ~             ~                C   aCL                                     C
~~  -4  -.    "Ci   CO   ,m                                                                                                                               _____________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q
-4                                                                                                                                                                     r-rl~~~~~~~~~-
0                                                      C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C






IBRD  16116R
720                          730                           740                           DECEMBER 1982
Bombay
INDIA          ,                    V                     : V,                                       i                                     |
HAA ALtFFU .7
t    5~/,~Uoo  ~7,e      -$Dh hhI
ARABIAN SEA                   )Madras                                                    No.. M  w                      j                                     l
HAA DHAALU           7   :.Kulhudhuffushi
Maama Kuoudhoo             Mavyaoodh
y3.     Feevah   SHAVIYANI
,,51L'.ANKAt                                                     7. MaakadDodhoo
Cotombo             |                                                  F r oi
A ,                - j Al'     NOONU 0
.                              3    ~~~ ~ ~~RAA               f'    ;Q3
MALDIVES                                 3           HuRA  d                       MJ ,
:~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K -, ol .. Kafiruhoo ~-u +i*sVefidh"t;
IN*DIAN OCEAN                                NoVIYAh/VI
- __ _-    _  ___    ___    ___.,_                                                    ;          la u,  LH   v Y   A
3AA            Eydhofoslo        J
Th ihaadh0o0  Goidu /         Ksasn,dhoo
j ________fJhora  .w    .        Gaafa,r
:                                   3    . ~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~~Thodoo,  Qh,. 3h
.                          4         3/ti3tSzveri    , u1           +      O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hiffushl  
4 Mothioec;,., ,              . t* Haul.    KAAFU
~MALE
_40                                                            AL/FU       .                                                                                 40
j Mshlbadhoo
ARABIAN    S                                        acot-lolo
A ftA  fB t A N    S; .     3       ~~~~~Marldu  ' ,,;-                    o 
at Fe, dh3
FAAFU                     Rakeedhoo           -        .
MALIVES                               KdMagoodhoo
IDo                        i, nEadhp~ ,_--r---- j                                                    r1                                                     301
NATIONAL CAPL                  DHAALU                           f            EEMU
t                 i            ~~~~~~~~~~Kudafualoo)   
MALDIVES KTS                                      doodhoo         .   Vi , DA-   F
Thicodhoo ~    ~      lsho
-20 SECOND   FISHE; RYt PROJECT   7H.4A e>nan^ GAuA
Locotion   of   Oil   Storage                  Facilities                                     ;  Maa  ,  FnaroAM2
Nsdsha     .       onahdhooLAM
-                      0         1heonPROEC T AREA   1fthadhoo
G   OIL TANKS                                          \ -
6S   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     -
M-ulIa     ADMINISTRATIVE CAPITALS                             ?<. -           =_        
Gamu       OTHER ISLAND
-10                          AtRFIELDS
ADMINISTRATIS      E ATOLLS                              ,                                tVitgitt
'.GAA F41A L FU
Thindadhoo                                                so ,    t  t
GAAFUD       ~ ~~~~NadaliaL..     , Gdho
00                                                                                      W.11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vt/d dH-k s vbeff-P'-Pae bf6t,
ot;' {J SO~5                     10c         1s .a 0                                                          the ---eene of th-,tlder f  
YILOMETER                                                      GA Y.fi                  thE ntpo ttwh,ch,tisatw-e            01
O                  tjo                 100                                  Fua Mutaku 1.           do -ot -ncPly, no the pert of the  
World Pack -odIto -fiitay
MILES                         SEENU                                               fodgteot os the ogal status of
any tentory or any e.dor---ent
,or acceptnce of such bo-nd,e,-
HathsdhoA- 
*Gan
710                          720                          730                         740                            750






aot-f  0 'ff '-   a'    ' ''  ---; ; --f  $i; ff  ?E  /0
';fgSgt;ul-  a,4RE N0    
X 0    0'  t;900     -                             iE' "                 0 0  0:
0     t    t  0; 0!@;0  ; 4;:,-:tt   00   z:
X f:  =  X f.    ' 0Suj                 0, T''iSt.:f:=   - -L,t;  S,;; tSt, _f:i; f0'-I 
t:;f-t; '     -'4 00   ' /   -s, *  ''  f;;    f04-t    ;-4' 'f-t -Xuft    ;-         _
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            LJ a0 t  , XS1 _ ./ , 0=    ;, !   =    
0z0S   00:;00.;9     t    tg lel;   0-; $f;-s 0  ;$;   00= 0:;  0i45 ;;00-U
S~~~m                               -                             !-' 0'i       
i.   .    0    0 :  | -  ;.Ij   ._   f-1   ' ;    -       0   ;   $ : 0 :  i 0 ; 0         
S~ ~ ~ ~~~~~m ' tS't    S';0        l,-   '; - = '       "9D     {-''='''=   '=f    V       ;,'X'   S0f
: ~    ~      ~       N            K' ' '.:!r                  S0              ii X         ; o
.0:,.Li f   .: ,,       -''   '0                        '  f        1 -       t     
_ ' f f :0 0 ' ;0\; X ':'St1~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



