Document of                         EC3
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3439-MAL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$5.0 MILLION (SDR4.8 MILLIO
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
FOR A
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
January 6, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Market Exchange Rate
(As of April 1, 1982)
Rufiyaa (Rf) 7.00  = US$1.00
Rf 1.00             = US$0.143
Rf 1 Million        = US$142,857
Official Accounting Rate
(As of April 1, 1982)
This rate is used for all foreign exchange transactions of the Government and
as a reference rate to determine procurement prices of fish, domestic sales
prices of basic consumer goods imported by the State Trading Organization, and
the value of imported goods subject to duty.
Rf 4.00       = US$1.00
Rf 1.00       = US$0.25
Rf 1 Million  = US$250,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 litre (1 )       = 0.220 Imperial Gallons (Imp. gallons)
1 kilometer        = 0.5400 international nautical miles (NMI)
= 0.6214 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (MT) = 2,204,6226 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
GOM    -  Government of Maldives
KFAED  -  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MFC    -  Maldives Fisheries Corporation
PCC    -  Project Coordinating Committee
STO    -  State Trading Organization
DEFINITIONS
Atoll             -  a group of coral islands surrounded by a reef forming
a lagoon.
Collector vessel -  vessel of about 10-15 meter, with insulated hold containing
ice, used to collect fish from fishing vessels and
transport fish to either land-based operations or mother
vessels for further processing.
Mother vessel    -  large vessel equipped with fish freezing and storage
facilities.
IALDIVES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Maldives
Beneficiary:           State Trading Organization (STO)
Amount:                SDR 4.8 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       The Government of Maldives (GOM) would make available
to STO US$1.3 million equivalent in the form of equity
and US$1.6 million equivalent as a loan out of the
proceeds of the IDA Credit. The subsidiary loan will
carry an interest rate of 13% per annum and be repaid
over 15 years including 5 years grace with the Government
of Maldives bearing foreign exchange risk.
Co-financiers:         IFAD (US$2.0 million equivalent) Norwegian Government
(US$4.1 million equivalent), and OPEC Fund (US$0.9
million equivalent).
Project Description:  The proposed project is designed to increase foreign
exchange earnings and the income of fishermen from
tuna export through strengthening of fisheries infra-
structure and a fuel distribution system, improvement in
fish pricing mechanism, and technical assistance for
training and management. It would also help develop
new markets for frozen fish exports. The main compo-
nents of the project are: (i) a refrigeration complex;
(ii) fish collector and fishing vessels; (iii) fuel
distribution facilities; (iv) infrastructure required
for the above; and (v) technical assistance for
detailed design of project facilities, management,
training and preparation of a follow-up project. The
project does not entail an unusual risk except the risk
involved in a slower than anticipated improvement in
world tuna prices.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
Refrigeration Complex                          0.2       2.6       2.8
Collector and Fishing Vessels                  0.1       1.5       1.6
Fuel Distribution Facilities                    -        0.8       0.8
Infrastructure                                 0.1       1.3       1.4
Technical Assistance                           0.2       2.0       2.2
Total Base Cost                                0.6       8.2       8.8
Physical Contingencies                         0.1       1.0       1.1
Price Contingencies                            0.2       2.5       2.7
Total Project Cost 1/                          0.9      11.7      12.6
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign  Total
IDA                                            0.2       4.8       5.0
IFAD                                            -        2.0       2.0
Norwegian Government                           0.4       3.7       4.1
OPEC Fund                                       -        0.9       0.9
GOM                                            0.3       0.3       0.6
0.9     11.7      12.6
Estimated
Disbursement:
IDA FY            1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Annual             0.3   1.0  178   1.0  7375   0.3   0.1
Cumulative         0.3   1.3   3.1   4.1   4.6   4.9   5.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       27%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 4084-MAL dated January 6, 1983.
Map:               IBRD No. 16117R.
1/ Investments of GOM are free of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
FOR A SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development Credit to the Republic of Maldives for SDR 4.8 million (US$5.0
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a Second Fisheries
Project. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would
provide US$2.0 million equivalent and the OPEC Fund US$0.9 million equivalent
as loans while the Norwegian Government (NG) would provide US$4.1 million
equivalent as grant on parallel financing basis toward meeting the cost of
the project. Government of Maldives (GOM) would make available to State
Trading Organization (STO) US$1.3 million equivalent in the form of equity
and US$1.6 million equivalent as a loan out of the proceeds of the proposed
Credit. The subsidiary loan will carry an interest rate of 13% per annum and
be repaid over a term of 15 years including 5 years' grace with GOM bearing
the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The Republic of Maldives joined the World Bank and IDA in January
1978. The Bank's first economic report on the country, "'The Economy of the
Maldives:  An Introduction" (Report No. 2739-MAL), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 2, 1980.  A Bank mission visited Maldives in
June 1982 to update this report; the principal findings of the mission are
included below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.      The Maldives is an archipelago of nearly 1,200 tiny coral islands in
the Indian Ocean, about 645 km to the southwest of India and Sri Lanka. The
climate is tropical and dominated by two monsoons; the southwest monsoon from
May to October, which brings rain and occasional strong winds, and the north-
east monsoon from December to April, which brings fair weather. The islands
are grouped into 19 atolls, forming a long, narrow chain strung over an area
of about 107,000 sq. km. The total land area is estimated at 300 sq km, of
which less than 10% (about 2,800 ha) is cultivable. Nearly a fifth of the
total population of about 157,000 (1981 estimate) lives in the capital, Male
(area 2 sq km), which is the only urban center. The rest of the population
is fairly regularly dispersed north and south of Male, and occupies about
200 other islands. Some of the officially uninhabited islands are seasonally
occupied by families engaged in the gathering and processing of coconuts, or
used full-time as tourist resorts.
4.      Marine resources and tourist attractions constitute the principal
natural endowments of the country, and economic activity is heavily special-
ized in fishing and tourism, the former by far a more pervasive source of
employment and incomes, and an important source of government revenues and
net foreign exchange earnings. Possibilities for agricultural production are



-2-
severely limited by the extremely small cultivable area (para 3), and by
sandy soil, which has a high alkaline and a low organic content and lacks
certain trace elements. Agricultural production--mostly subsistence cultiva-
tion of coarse grains, tubers and tropical fruits--meets only 10% of food
consumption; all major food staples other than fish are imported. There are
no known mineral resources. Industrial activity is confined to cottage
industries, small-scale fabrication and repair, and two small export-oriented
garment factories set up during the past year. The lack of resources and
the small size of the domestic market rule out any major import-substituting
enterprise. The openness of the economy as well as its highly specialized
nature makes Maldives vulnerable in the short term to external events. By
1981 estimates, exports and imports (of goods and nonfactor services) con-
stituted, respectively, 50% and 67% of GNP (US$56 million); fisheries
provided 85% of the US$8.6 million merchandise exports; and tourism, over 90%
of the US$16 million gross invisible earnings.
5.      A tiny population spread over 200 islands, with tenuous inter-island
transport and communications, contributes to the continuing isolation of the
atolls vis-a-vis Male and from each other. Dispersion greatly increases the
costs of local distribution of commodities and of providing the essential
social and economic services that is now fairly heavily concentrated in Male.
The country s remoteness from the main international trade routes, however,
has been greatly mitigated by a highly successful national shipping line, the
Maldives Shipping Limited (MSL), established in 1966. The MSL is the main
sealink with the rest of the world, and carries almost all of the country s
bulk imports. Fresh fish exports are carried by foreign fishing companies in
their own vessels.
6.      Population is estimated to be growing at an annual rate of about 3%,
the growth rate in the capital is 11% per year, far outstripping that of the
atolls owing to rapid inflow of local migrants attracted by the heavy con-
centration of incomes, resources and services in Male. By 1977 Census data,
open unemployment at about 5.8% of the labor force (or about 4,000
unemployed) seems low; however, unemployment in Male (about 15%) is quite
high, particularly among the youth (24%), indicating that jobs in the capital
are not keeping pace with the inflow from the atolls and that immigrants lack
the skills needed by such growth sectors as government and tourism. This
situation lends weight to Government policy of promoting the development of
the outer atolls, in particular the fisheries sector, whose resource base is
more widespread, and in which skills are much more ingrained in the tradi-
tional economic life of the islands.
7.      In recent years, real GDP per capita is estimated to have grown at an
impressive rate of 5% per year; almost all growth, however, occurred in the
services sector, which constitutes about 60% of GDP and is heavily con-
centrated in and around Male. Per capita money incomes in the atolls are
thus much lower than the national average. The atoll population also has few
assets and generally lacks access to non-religious formal education, health



-3-
services, and safe water supply (Annex I). 1/ Nevertheless, several factors
throughout the country help to obtain standards of living that are higher
than might be expected from the low money incomes: cash incomes are supple-
mented, and household nutritional levels boosted, by produce from homestead
gardens (coconuts, fruit, vegetables, tubers); over three-fifths of
households are reasonably well protected from the elements; and strong cul-
tural and community ties provide an effective social security system based on
family and kinship. At the same time, Government has been quite conscious of
the need to redress past neglect of the social sectors. In recent years,
improvements in atoll schools, health services, and water supply and sanita-
tion have been initiated and funded with domestic resources and with external
assistance, particularly from UN agencies (UNCDF, UNICEF, WHO).
8.      Important institutions involved in economic management in the
Maldives include the departments of Finance, and of Tourism and Foreign
Investment, both under the Office of the President, which also oversees the
National Planning Agency created in 1978, and the Maldives Monetary Authority
(MMA), set up in 1982 to perform central bank functions. The country's
oldest institution is STO, which was set up in the early 1960s to handle
local and international trade after many foreign traders, who had dominated
these sectors, left in 1959. Local private enterprise, predominantly
small-scale, has evolved mostly in fishing, transport, construction, and
tourism.
9.      The activities of the STO encompass about 85% of merchandise exports,
about 75% of merchandise imports, and much of the domestic retail trade.
Before the establishment of MMA, STO had also performed central bank func-
tions and administered the government budget. STO-s profits are an important
source of budgetary revenues (20% in 1981).
10.     Over the past decade, Government policy and performance in matters of
the country's development have been characterized by pragmatism and ad hoc
yet strategic State initiatives. These have led to successful investments
and structural transformation in fishing and tourism sectors of the economy,
where the country's comparative advantage is strong.
11.     Beginning in the early 1970s, Government responded to the progressive
loss of the country's only market (Sri Lanka) for its sole export product
("Maldive fish"--a dried, salted and smoked tuna product) by inviting foreign
companies to start collection of fresh fish for freezing and export to alter-
native markets. The severe foreign exchange crisis in Sri Lanka in the early
1970s prompted that country to continue limiting its imports of "Maldive
fish". In the Maldives, the diversification of export product and markets
1/ The high adult literacy rate (82%) is explained by the prevalence of
Koranic schools in this Muslim country.



-4-
was effectively implemented through the 1970s, 1/ and was facilitated by a
program of mechanizing the country's fishing fleet, as mechanized vessels
were better suited than the traditional sailing vessels to supply fresh fish
to collector vessels (see also Part III). In order to meet the country's
growing budgetary expenditures, including the financing of fisheries develop-
ment, Government found it necessary and, until recently, convenient to rely
quite heavily on implicit taxation of fish exports. 2/ The heavy taxation of
fish exports, the high cost and inadequate supplies of diesel fuel, and the
limited collector vessel and freezing capacity have posed serious constraints
to fuller utilization of mechanized fishing capacity. In response to this
situation, Government is now considering budgetary reforms to reduce depend-
ence on fish export taxation (para 13). To ease the other constraints,
Government is proposing to undertake further complementary investments, among
them the project proposed in this Report.
12.     In tourism, Government promotion strategy has emphasized local
private ownership of resorts but encouraged management by experienced foreign
managers. The tourist industry has grown remarkably and beyond recognition.
Between 1974 and 1981, the number of resorts grew from 6 (bed capacity less
than 1,000) to 37 (bed capacity over 3,000); arrivals increased from 5,000 to
50,000; and gross earnings rose from $1 million (12% of exports of goods and
1/ Whereas "Maldive fish" constituted the entire form of export in 1971, it
came to constitute less than 1% by 1981. Correspondingly, whereas the
entire export went to Sri Lanka in 1971, the market had been diversified,
by 1981, to Japan (62%); Singapore, Thailand and others (21%); and Sri
Lanka (17%). This structural transformation occurred with relatively
little disruption in overall export performance. Total volume of fish
exports in 1980 was at about the same level as the annual average during
1971-73 (23 thousand MT fresh fish equivalent). Meanwhile, domestic
consumption, boosted by the rapid growth of tourism, grew from about 8
thousand MT in 1971 to 12 thousand MT in 1981.
2/ The implicit taxation resulted from use of the official accounting rate
(OAR), $1 = Rf. 3.93, as a reference rate for setting fish procurement
prices when the market exchange rate (MER) was $1 = Rf. 7.5. The effec-
tive rate of this implicit taxation had been about 55% prior to April
1982, when the differential between the OAR and the MER was narrowed; the
OAR was set at $1 = Rf. 4, and the MER at $1 = Rf. 7. At the same time,
Government decided not to pass on to producers the sharp decline in tuna
export prices negotiated with foreign collecting companies. Conse-
quently, the effective rate of implicit taxation has now been lowered to
about 22%.



-5-
services) to about US$15 million (47% of exports of goods and services). 1/
Extensions of the Hulule international airport near Male were completed in
November 1981, and the airport was opened to direct traffic in wide-bodied
jets, removing an important bottleneck of limited connecting flights to and
from Colombo. Development of tourism has taken place mostly around Male
Atoll, whose potential is now almost fully exploited. Further expansion of
the industry would require the development of new zones, beginning with basic
infrastructure (airport, transportation between airport and resorts, water,
power), and the country would have to evaluate carefully the net benefits
from such additional investments.
13.     By most measures, budgetary revenues have performed remarkably well
in the past few years. In 1978 they were only 5.7% of GDP, but in 1981 they
had risen to 17%. As a proportion of expenditures, revenues covered about
25% in 1978 and 56% in 1981. There has been no budgetary crisis because
capital expenditures have been undertaken in the main only when foreign
financing had been secured, and an unpredictable but usually favorable level
of grants and some non-project aid has helped with recurrent expenditures.
However, the recent decline in tuna export prices, and the substantial reduc-
tion of implicit tax rates on fish exports, are expected to reduce Govern-
ment's revenue from fish exports, which constitute a sizeable proportion of
domestic revenues. At the same time, expenditures are expected to increase
on account of newly established infrastructure (airport, schools, health
posts). Fortunately, some budgetary reforms, under consideration by Govern-
ment, could be undertaken to face this situation.  Possible measures 'to raise
revenue from alternative sources include selective increases in import
duties, and institution of appropriate income and property taxes on busines-
ses, rental property and tourist resorts. On the expenditure side, a phased
reduction of implicit subsidies on imported food should be possible.
14.     At the end of December 1981, the total foreign indebtedness of
Maldives stood at US$58.7 million, of which about US$39 million had been
disbursed. About two-thirds of total debt, and of disbursed debt, was on
account of bilateral donors: Kuwait (airport expansion, shipping,
fisheries); Saudi Arabia (airport expansion); and U.A.E. (airport expansion,
telecommunications). The principal multilateral lenders to Maldives have
been the Islamic Development Bank (shipping, civil aviation); OPEC Special
Fund (balance of payments support); IDA (fisheries); and ADB (inter-island
transport). Financing has largely been obtained on concessionary terms, with
a grant element of a little over 50%. Debt service payments on official debt
amounted to US$0.7 million in 1981 (2.3% of exports of goods and services);
these payments are expected to amount to over US$5 million by 1988.
1/ Allowing for tourist sector imports for consumption and investment spend-
ing, net foreign exchange earnings from tourism are estimated to be about
50-55% of gross earnings.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP-S OPERATION IN MALDIVES
15.     The first credit of US$3.2 million to Maldives, after it became a
member of the Bank in January 1978, was made in May 1979 for a fisheries
project. It financed 500 marine diesel engines for mechanization of fishing
vessels, 5 engine maintenance and repair centers, 33 navigation lights and 40
buoys, while the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) financed supplemen-
tary technical assistance. The project, after some initial procurement
delays, is being implemented successfully. Installation of about 325 engines
has been completed, the remainder is expected to be installed by late 1983.
The maintenance and repair centers and installation of navigational aids are
nearing completion. A training program in improved fishing techniques was
enthusiastically received by the local fishermen; a pilot vessel design and
construction program has produced a very successful improved fishing vessel.
Another long range fishing vessel is under trial. The impact of the project
has been substantial; mechanized vessels have proven to be much more effi-
cient than sailing vessels.  Average catches per vessel increased from about
10 MT to about 35 MT, which contributed to a substantial increase in fisher-
men s income.
16.     Given the important role and potential of fisheries, the Bank Group's
investment strategy continues to focus on the development of fisheries sec-
tor. It supports Government efforts to develop fisheries as an export
oriented sector for generation of revenue and foreign exchange on the one
hand and for providing a base for a balanced distribution of benefits of
economic progress to outer atolls on the other. A similar project proposal
based on this strategy but covering the southern region of the country is
being financed by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) (para
21). Preparation of a follow-up project in the sector would be a component
of the proposed IDA Credit. In addition, the IDA lending program also
includes a possible agricultural development project emphasizing coconut
rehabilitation.
PART III - THE FISHERIES SECTOR
Fish Resources and Production
17.     Fish catches in Maldives are dominated by skipjack and yellowfin
tuna, which in 1980 comprised 68% and 12% of the country-s total fish land-
ings of 35,000 MT. These are schooling fish, caught by pole and line method
outside the atolls. Catch records reveal very substantial fluctuations of
catches of dominant species between years, atolls and fishing methods. These
fluctuations particularly reflect changes in the behavior of fish stocks,
notably their proximity to the reefs. Total annual fish landings over the
1970-1980 period averaged 30,000 MT; the actual catch fluctuated between
25,000 MT in 1972 and 35,000 MT in 1971, 1974 and 1980.



-7-
18.     There are no estimates of stock size and potential yields for skip-
jack tuna for the Maldives. However, the potential annual yield of skipjack
tuna from the entire Indian Ocean is estimated at about 350,000 MT. The total
catch by countries bordering the Indian Ocean is currently estimated at about
45,000 MT. There is scope, therefore, for substantial expansion of skipjack
tuna catches in the Maldives. Catches of mature yellowfin tuna in the entire
Indian Ocean (about 60,000 MT) are quite close to estimated potential yields.
However a moderate expansion of Maldives small catch of yellowfin tuna
(currently about 4,000 MT) is considered feasible. There are no estimates of
the potential yield of other species, particularly reef fish. Current
catches are small, and a moderate expansion is unlikely to create resource
problems.
Development Constraints
19.     Catches are particularly concentrated in three areas:  around Male
the capital, to the north of Kaafu, and around the One and a Half Degree
channel (Map 16117R). The concentration of fishing efforts in these three
areas reflects the impact of two major constraints on fishing operations,
namely, limited fish collection capacity and inadequate supply of fuel to
mechanized fishing vessels. The collector vessel operators, who buy fresh
fish to be frozen for export, have historically focussed on areas with the
best prospects for sustained catches, leaving fishing vessel operators in the
rest of the country with no option but to process fish in lower priced dried
salted products or use fishing vessels for alternative purposes like
inter-island transport. The companies which collect fish (para 20) were
initially entrusted with distribution of fuel but were soon unable to handle
the quantities involved. They rationed deliveries, thereby forcing vessels
to operate near collector vessels supplying fuel. GOM started its own fuel
distribution in 1980, but the capacity and the management of the system have
been inadequate. Only Male provides adequate fuel supplies and a ready
market for fish, which explains the concentration of fishing efforts in that
area.
Fish Marketing, Processing and Utilization
20.     About a third of the Maldivian fish catch in 1980 was consumed
locally. The rest was exported frozen (35%), canned (8%), or salted and
dried (25%). Historically, Maldives has exported fish to finance the import
of food. When in the early 1970's demand for its traditional dried salted
products in its main market--Sri Lanka--decreased, Maldives started exports
of tuna in frozen and canned form by selling fresh fish to foreign companies
operating mother vessels and a cannery at Felivaru island. Under these
arrangements Maldivian export was limited to a small number of fish products
through a few buyers. Withdrawal of two of the foreign companies in 1980 and
early 1982, which mainly reflected changing corporate strategies for tuna
procurement in the Indian Ocean area showed the vulnerability of these export
arrangements. Only one remaining foreign company now handles frozen fish



-8-
exports. In 1980, GOM initiated a policy to develop its own capabilities in
collection and export of frozen fish to augment the activities of the local
companies. Two Maldivian owned companies, one private and the other the
state-owned Maldive Fisheries Corporation (MFC), currently handle modest
quantities of frozen fish. However, the development of MFC has been con-
strained by lack of capital, inadequate management, and initially, inadequate
commitment of the Government. When the second foreign company withdrew in
mid-1982, the cannery and related infrastructure at Felivaru were purchased
by GOM. The managment of cannery complex has been recently transferred to
STO (para 26).
21.     MFC's ongoing fish collection operations with one mother vessel
suffers from inadequate management. In 1980, GOM requested financial assis-
tance of KFAED to expand its fish collection capacity, and focussed its
development efforts on the main fishing grounds around the One and a Half
Degree channel. KFAED rejected a first project proposal because of unaccep-
table high costs. It has now agreed to finance a revised proposal which is
currently being executed by MFC. In view of MFC's limited implementation
capacity and its involvement in KFAED assisted project, GOM was prompted to
entrust development of additional fish collection facilities in the other
major fishing area, north of the Kardiva channel, to the STO and requested
IDA for financial assistance. With the implementation of the IDA and KFAED
projects, GOM would be able to maintain exports of frozen fish at a
reasonable level, even if the last remaining foreign company were to reduce
or withdraw its operations.
Tuna Export Prospects
22.     Total world production of skipjack tuna in 1981 was about 0.8 million
MT and of yellowfin tuna 0.5 million MT. They are the predominant raw
material used by the tuna canning industry. The USA consumes about 65% of
the world½s canned tuna production, and Europe some 25%.
23.     World market prices for frozen skipjack tuna and yellowfin tuna
dropped substantially after reaching all time highs in early 1981. Skipjack
tuna prices decreased by up to 40%. The price drop has been more severe than
in any previous market slump, the result of several coinciding developments:
(i) The growth in world tuna catching capacity, which was fueled
by expectations of continuing high tuna prices, and discoveries
of substantial new fish stocks;
(ii) Lack of growth in the consumption of canned tuna in the USA and
limited growth in Europe due to the international recession; and
(iii) A trend to move canning operations to areas with lower production
costs. As a result, several plants in the USA have been temporarily
closed in the past few months. With many vessels still attempting



-9-
to sell tuna in the area, prices at the U.S. West Coast, a world
wide price indicator, dropped.
24.     The process of structural adjustment to bring catching capacity and
consumption to a new equilibrium level started immediately after frozen
skipjack prices declined. Adjustment time will depend on the strength of the
economic recovery in the USA and Europe, and the pace at which obsolete,
inefficient and financially overextended fishing capacity is withdrawn.
25.     Tuna canneries in many countries are expected to rely increasingly on
cheap raw material imported from countries with efficient, cost effective
catching operations. The current trend of cannery operations being shifted
to countries with low operating costs is likely to intensify. Prices are
likely to remain low while adjustments are made over a two to four year
period after which average prices are expected to settle at a level of about
US$850/MT CIF US West Coast. This price level would be about half way
between mid-1981 and mid-1982 prices. Because of the structure of fishing
operations and the productivity of the resources, Maldivian fishing opera-
tions are highly cost effective compared to tuna catching operations in other
parts of the world. Vessel operations are profitable at fresh fish price
level of US$250/MT, about one third of those of comparable operations in
developed countries.
State Trading Organization (STO)
26.     GOM-s decision to entrust the proposed investment project to STO
strongly reflects its performance as Maldives' main trading organization, and
its successful implementation of two joint ventures in garment manufacturing.
in addition, STO has also been entrusted with the management of cannery
complex at Felivaru. STO's operations have been consistently profitable over
the years. Its financial position and management capabilities are unmatched
in the country. Although STO's involvement in fisheries has been only in
dried fish trading, its limited experience in the sector is balanced by its
strong trading background and its ability to attract capable staff. Its
capital base of US$9.3 million equivalent compares to reported liabilities of
US$0.4 million which is largely in the form of US dollar denominated debt.
STO has been responsible for fuel imports of GOM, and its involvement in fuel
distribution under the project, taking over responsibilities from Maldives
Transport and Contracting Corporation, would be in line with its general
distribution activities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.     The proposed project was identified and prepared by GOM with assis-
tance of IDA missions. It was appraised in March/April 1982. The Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Second Fisheries Project" (No. 4084-MAL, dated
January 6, 1983) is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in



-10-
Washington from November 29 to December 1, 1982. GOM and STO were repre-
sented by a delegation headed by Honorable Ali Maniku, Special Advisor to the
President. A timetable of key events relating to the project and special
conditions of the proposed credit are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
28.     The objectives of the project would be to help GOM:  (i) strengthen
the fisheries sector infrastructure to enhance productivity of the mechanized
fishing fleet; (ii) make the current fish pricing system more effective in
promoting increased production and fishermen's income; (iii) develop new
markets for frozen fish exports; and (iv) strengthen the diesel fuel dis-
tribution system.
Project Area
29.     The project area would consist of all seven atolls north of Kaafu,
and six atolls south of Male. The project would provide fish collection
services to the rich fishing ground north of the Kaafu atoll, while providing
fuel distribution facilities in the entire project area. About 575
mechanized vessels are currently registered in the project area of which an
estimated 175 regularly fish, while the others also engage in inter-island
trade or operate full time for the tourist industry. At full development the
number of fishing vessels is expected to increase to 245.
Project Description
30.     The project comprises:
(i) a refrigeration complex at Felivaru island consisting of a
25 MT/day ice plant with ice storage capacity of 150 MT, and
a 40 MT/day fish freezer and 750 MT cold storage;
(ii) a fleet of four fish collector vessels;
(iii) fuel distribution facilities consisting of a 1,200 MT bulk fuel
storage at Felivaru, and a network of eleven small fuel tanks
located at various atolls supported by two 100 MT tankers;
(iv) a fleet of twenty fishing vessels to carry out inshore and
distant water fishing;
(v) infrastructure required for the above, consisting of water
collection/storage facilities, an electric power generating unit,
improvement of the fish landing jetty, a slipway, a barge
load-out, two barges, a transport vessel, a workshop and staff
living quarters; and



(vi)  technical assistance for (a) preparation of detailed design of
the infrastructure, procurement, and supervision of the
construction work, (b) management of the project after con-
struction, (c) training of local staff in management and
technical subjects, and (d) preparation of a follow-up project.
31.     The refrigeration complex and fuel distribution system would provide
essential fish collection and fuel distribution services to the mechanized
vessels operating in the project area. These facilities would enable fishing
vessels to operate more efficiently, increase fish production and fishermen's
incomes.
Organization and Implementation
32.     STO, as the project executing agency, would be responsible for con-
struction and operation of freezing and marketing facilities, fuel distribu-
tion facilities and collector and fishing vessels. The project, except for
the preparation of a follow-up project, would be implemented by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by a Project Director under STO. STO would
also set up by May 31, 1983 two new divisions, namely the Fish Marketing
Division and Fuel Distribution Division to execute the project (Section 2.02
of draft Project Agreement (PA)). GOM would also recruit a certified
accountant to train accounting and auditing staff.
33.     GOM would establish a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to be
jointly chaired by the Minister of Fisheries and the Managing Director of STO
with PD as the member secretary to the Committee. PCC would include repre-
sentatives of relevant GOM Ministries and Departments including Maldives
Fisheries Corporation. It would review project progress and formulate
policies and directives on project implementation. Establishment of PCC with
power and functions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of Credit effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01(f), draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
Cost and Financing
34.     Total project costs are estimated at US$12.6 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of US$11.7 million. Physical contingencies of
20% for civil works and 10% for the refrigeration complex, equipment, vessels
and technical assistance have been provided. Annual inflation of 8% for
1982-1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985 and 6.0% for 1986 have been assumed
in estimating the price contingencies for the foreign costs while the price
contingencies for the local costs have been estimated at 12% for 1983, 10%
for 1984 and 8% thereafter. Investments of GOM are free of duties and taxes.
35.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$5.0 million equivalent (about 40% of
total project cost) would finance civil works and technical assistance. IFAD
would provide a loan of US$2.0 million equivalent (about 16% of total project
cost) to finance the foreign costs of collector and fishing vessels. Foreign
costs amounting to US$0.9 million equivalent (about 7% of total project cost)



-12-
for the oil distribution component would be met by the OPEC Fund. The Nor-
wegian Government would provide a grant of US$4.1 million equivalent (about
32% of total project cost) to finance the refrigeration complex on a parallel
financing basis. The remainder of US$0.6 million equivalent would be met by
GOM. Fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of IFAD and
OPEC Fund loans and Norwegian grant would be the conditions of IDA Credit
effectiveness. (Section 6.01 (a, b and c), draft (DCA)).
36.     GOM would onlend US$1.6 million equivalent out of the proceeds of the
proposed IDA Credit to STO. Repayment would be over 15 years including 5
years  grace at 13% interest rate per annum with GOM bearing the foreign
exchange risk. GOM would pass on US$1.3 million equivalent of the proposed
Credit to STO in the form of equity. STO would prepare a financing plan
satisfactory to IDA for the transfer of ownership of fishing vessels acquired
under the project to the private operators to encourage them in distant water
fishing operations (Section 2.04, draft Project Agreement (PA)). The
proceeds of IFAD and OPEC Fund loans, and the Norwegian Government grant are
also expected to be onlent by GOM to STO. Inflation in Maldives over the
past 4 years has averaged 20% per annum and is projected to decline to an
average of 10% over the next 4 years. The proposed onlending interest rate
of 13% to STO should therefore result in a positive real rate of interest
over the project period. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOM and STO is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 6.01(e), draft DCA).
Procurement
37.     The contract for the refrigeration complex valued at about US$4.1
million would be parallel financed and procured in accordance with Government
of Norway procedures. STO would ensure that IDA is given an opportunity to
comment on the specifications and contract terms and conditions of the
proposed refrigeration complex prior to awarding of its contract (Section
2.05, draft PA). The civil works to be financed under the proposed Credit
would be procured as a package through international competitive bidding
(ICB). Some minor items (installation of small fuel tanks, local housing)
costing less than US$50,000 each, whose aggregate value would not exceed
US$300,000, would however be procured through local bidding procedures. The
collector vessels financed by IFAD would be procured through ICB, and the
fishing vessels (costing about US$0.5 million equivalent) through local
procurement procedures which are satisfactory to IDA and IFAD. The oil
tankers to be financed by the OPEC Fund would be procured through ICB. The
consultants for training of staff and management assistance to be provided
under the proposed Credit would be recruited internationally according to the
current Bank Guidelines.



-13-
Disbursement
38.     The IDA Credit would be disbursed against 90% of expenditures for
civil works and 100% of expenditures on technical assistance and training,
including services of engineering consultants. The IFAD loan would be dis-
bursed against 100% of expenditures for collector and other vessels, and 80%
of expenditures for fishing vessels, while the OPEC Fund loan is expected to
be disbursed at 90% against expenditures for fuel oil storage tanks and 60%
against expenditures for fuel oil tankers.  The Credit would completely
disburse in six years of which the last three years  disbursement would be
predominantly against expenditures for the management contract. RetroacctiL.-
financing of up to US$250,000 is recommended for expenditures on engineering
consultants incurred after October 1, 1982 for detailed design of civil works
for fishing infrastructure, refrigeration complex, and tender document
preparation.
Technical Assistance
39.     To assist STO in starting up the refrigeration complex and to develop
fish marketing operations, it would negotiate a management contract with a
consultancy firm or a reputable fisheries company. The management team wouid
start its operations on a selective basis before project facilities have bee-r
completed, continue for a period of 24 months after which the team would
gradually be reduced over a period of 12 months. STO would also conclude a
contract with a fuel distribution specialist to assist in starting up
activities of the Fuel Distribution Division. The local line managers
recruited for the operations of the refrigeration complex would be providad
training abroad in fish freezing and collection.
40.     For the successful operations of refrigeration complex, collector
vessels and oil tankers, STO would need skilled technicianis. About 60 of the
technicians currently working in the service and collector fleet operations
of the cannery at Felivaru would be utilized by STO. The requirements of
additional technicians would be met by local recruitment and training. STO
has prepared a draft staff recruitment and training schedule for review by a
training consultant to be hired under the project and retained for the execu-
tion of the training program. In hiring local staff, STO-s strategy would
be: (i) to attract candidates with adequate educational background and (ii)
to provide appropriate training in vocational and management skills to those
staff deficient in formal training and experience. The training program
would be conducted mainly at the Vocational Training Center in Male with the
assistance of a training consultant.
41.     Services of engineering consultants would be provided for the
preparation of detailed design of civil works, procurement and supervision o;
project implementation. A consultant firm has already been appointed for
this purpose. GOM would also recruit consultants for preparation of a fol-
low-up investment project and for training of accounts and audit staff (para
42). A total of 216 man months of technical assistance would be provided at



-14-
an estimated cost of US$3.1 million equivalent (including contingencies and
local costs) under the proposed Credit. The average cost of US$9,200 per man
month would cover fees, subsistence allowances, travel and reimbursable
foreign costs, but exclude housing costs for staff residing in the country
for extended periods.
Accounts and Audits
42.     The Auditor General½s office currently lacks certified auditors and
the auditing procedures fall short of international auditing standards.
Likewise, STO's accounting system though adequate for traditional reporting
requirements needs to be upgraded to acceptable accounting and internal
control standards. STO½s system is currently under review by an expatriate
accountant. The proposed project envisages recruitment of a certified
accountant, satisfactory to IDA, to train audit staff, assist the Auditor
General½s office in improving its auditing practices, and advise on the
adequacy of STO's accounting system improvement.
Monitoring and Evaluation
43.     PIU-s responsibilities would include monitoring of project implemen-
tation progress. A monitoring system in Ministry of Fisheries statistical
cell would be established to monitor costs and earnings of fishermen by
conducting periodic interviews with vessel operators.
Markets and Prices
44.     The project would sell fish to the world market as raw material for
the canning industry, to the Middle East and Male for direct consumption, and
to Sri Lanka in dried, salted form. ST0 would handle a minimum of 6,000 MT
from the project area, of which an estimated 90% would be sold in the world
market including 15% in the Middle East, 5% in Male and 5% would be exported
by existing fish exporters in frozen or dried form. Total frozen fish
exports of Maldives would increase from 14,000 MT in 1980 to about
20,000 MT 1/ in 1985, representing only about 4% of the projected world trade
in skipjack and yellowfin tuna for canning. Maldives would have no difficul-
ties in capturing this market share compared to the present share of about
3%. Maldives is favorably located near the Middle East market; STO would aim
at carefully developing a market share in that area for frozen tuna and white
fish for direct human consumption.
45.     For the financial and economic analysis a world market price (in 1982
dollars) of US$740/MT CIF US West Coast in year 3, gradually increasing to
US$840 in year 6 as compared to US$650 CIF US West Coast at present for
1/ This assumes that the total export of foreign fish by other exporters
is maintained at the 1980 level.



-15-
skipjack tuna is assumed. The assumed modest increase of prices reflects the
time consuming process of structural adjustment of the industry. These
prices would still be substantially below peak prices quoted in 1981
(US$1,100/MT CIF West Coast).
Fish Pricing Policy
46.     The GOM policy to determine the procurement price of fresh fish
destined for export has been the subject of a comprehensive review and revi-
sion to introduce incentives for increased production and, at the same time,
improve the competitive edge of frozen fish exports. Until early 1982, the
procurement price of the fish was determined by the prevailing dollar export
price converted at an overvalued official accounting rate (OAR) after allow-
ing a profit margin for the exporting agency. This was about 55% less than
the export price valued at the market exchange rate (MER). The difference
has largely been used for the purpose of subsidizing domestic retail prices
of basic imported commodities. This system of fixing local fish prices was
deficient; it levied a substantial fixed percentage tax regardless of the
capabilities of the sector to pay. The fish prices had virtually no
relationship with fish quality or local collection and handling costs and
price adjustments were automatic and inflexible.
47.     In April 1982, however, this automatic linkage with the prices paid
by the foreign buyer and the degree of inherent taxation underwent a change
in favor of local fishermen as GOM reduced the differential between OAR and
MER, and chose not to reduce the fish prices paid to the fishermen in spite
of a large decline in the dollar prices paid by the foreign buyers, so that
now the average procurement price is close to the export price converted at
the current MER.
48.     The change in policy was a direct result of the establishment of a
Fisheries Advisory Board (FAB) commissioned under Presidential Decree which
periodically reviews and recommends measures related to fisheries development
including criteria for determining fish prices. Such reviews take into
account fish quality, efficiency of the local fish collection and harvesting
operations, and price trends in the international fish markets. FAB is
chaired by the Minister of Fisheries. The membership include STO, MFC, and
the concerned ministries and departments of GOM.
49.     STO will export fish directly.  Under the project, it will determine
fish prices paid to the fishermen according to the criteria recommended by
FAB taking into account the fish quality and handling costs involved (Section
2.03, draft PA). It is expected that STO's fish marketing practices would
eventually be applied by MFC and private Maldivian fish collection operators
to the benefit of the fishermen at large.



-16-
Fuel Prices
50.     Under the current system of fuel pricing, retail prices in Male are
well above those paid by fishermen in the rest of the country. The current
fuel price structure is in need of adjustment, while restrictions on supply
caused by the current inadequate capacity of fuel distribution facilities,
should be lifted. To ensure a uniform price for fuel distributed in the
project area and Kaafu atoll at a level consistent with full cost recovery
and yielding a reasonable margin of profit to STO, GOM would prepare by
March 1, 1984 criteria for fuel pricing (Section 4.03, draft DCA). STO would
make diesel fuel readily available to all mechanized vessels in the project
area by February 28, 1985 at the price determined under such criteria (Sec-
tion 2.06, draft PA).
Benefits and Risks
51.     At full development in 1986, fish production in the project area
would increase by 57%. The combined effect of adequate fuel supply and
improved fish collection is expected to increase the number of fishing days
of mechanized vessels by an average 35%. The project impact would be
strongest in areas which had no regular service of collector vessels and fuel
distribution in the past. The increase in frozen fish export would provide
additional foreign exchange earnings of about US$4 million a year. The
project would generate direct employment for about 150 people and additional
employment opportunities for 1,500 persons would be available on the fishing
fleet. Fishing crews who operate fishing vessels on a catch sharing basis
would directly benefit from the increased catches per mechanized vessel.
52.     The projected financial rate of return on individual component ranges
from 12% for the fish collection and freezing complex to 26% for a typical
fishing vessel in the project area. The overall financial rate of return
for the project is estimated to be 16% excluding technical assistance.
53.     The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project including manage-
ment and training assistance is estimated to be 27%. If the sunk costs of
existing fishing vessels (about US$12.0 million) are included in the cost
stream, the ERR would be 16% which is an acceptable return. A slower than
anticipated improvement in world tuna prices is the main project risk.
However, even if world tuna prices were not to increase above the currently
depressed levels during the life of the project, its economic feasibility
would not be impaired. Several sensitivity tests have been conducted: a 31%
lower than projected tuna price, or a 90% increase in investment and operat-
ing costs, or a two year delay in accrual of benefits would still yield a 16%
rate of return. Likelihood of delays in project implementation and accrual
of benefits due to lack of management skills have been minimized by providing
technical assistance during and after the project implementation (para 39).



-17-
54.     The project will not have adverse effects on the physical environ-
ment. The fuel distribution system would rather reduce the potential hazards
of spills from the current fuel drum trade and the pressure of large vessel
concentration in the environment would also be reduced.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mal-
dives and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include: (i) fulfillment
by GOM of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD and OPEC
Fund loan and Norwegian grant agreements and the appointment of IDA by IFAD
as cooperating institution to administer its loan; (ii) execution of sub-
sidiary loan agreement between GOM and STO; and (iii) establishment of PCC
with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA.
57.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Associaton.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 6, 1983



-18-                                            ANNEX I
Page 1
MALDIVES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALDIVES                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV GADES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               0.3                                   MOST RECENT         LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        0.04               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                     70.0        130.0      260.0              261.4                     890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ..          ..         ..               448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    92.0           115.0     154.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..            11.3      20.7                17.3                      32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           0.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        306.7        383.3      500.0               158.1                     255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   2300.0         2875.0    3750.0                355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              ..        44.3       45.0                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                              ..        53.7       52.7               59.7                       56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      ..          2.0        2.3                 3.5                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.2          2.2       2.9                 2.0                       2.3
URBAN                                  ..          ..       11.0                 3.3                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.0           ..       44.01c              29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       23.0           ..       18.0/c              11.0                       9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..           ..       3.0                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..                19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               ..          ..         ..              108.1                      115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     86.2         83.6       77.6/c             97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            65.0         60.1       68.3/&              56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         34.5         31.9       40.2/c             20.0                       13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          ..           ..      21.2                10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         ..          ..       47.0/c              57.8                      59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..           ..     118.8/c              89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..       15.0/c             32.9                       32.0
URBAN                                  ..          ..       54.0/C              70.7                      51.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..        5.0/c              22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOT,AL                                 ..          ..         ..                18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                72.7                      65.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                 4.7                      24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..           ..   15666.7/c            3297.8                    8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..           ..    5222.2/W            4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  ..          ..    3525.0/c             1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..              301.3                      651.6
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..             5815.7                    2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..      58.2                  ..                      27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..        6.1/c
URBAN                                 ..           ..        9.7/
RURAL                                  ..          ..        5. 6/c
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       9.8/c
URBAN                                  ..           ..      59.3/c
RURAL                                  ..           ..       2.3/..



-19-                                       ANNEX I
Page 2
MALDIVES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALDIVES                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                    ..          ..       36.2/c              97.4                      96.2
MALE                     ..          ..         ..               101.0                      99.8
FEMALE                   ..          ..         ..                87.8                      92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     ..          ..       19.4/c              53.0                      37.6
MALE                     ..          ..       19.8/c              63.8                      41.1
FEMALE                   ..          ..       19.1/&              41.3                      34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    ..             3.1        ..                 1.7                      20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLM4ARY                               13.9      22.3       54.3                37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                              13.3      12.6       34.0/c              20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..           ..      82.0/c              52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..        1.6                 1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         8.7       26.7                35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..        2.3/c               3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..          ..         ..                16.4                      53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   .0. .9                    ..                 3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)            ..           ..      61.0/c
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      ..           .,       37.2/E              29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  ..          ..       55.0/c              70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     ..          ..       26.0/c              15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..      43.0/c              40.0                      38.5
MALE                                     ..           ..      50.9/7              51.8                      50.5
FEMALE                                   ..           ..      33.5/c              23.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  ..           ..        1.1/c              1.0                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..               111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                  ..                     178.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  .,                     164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                51.7                      41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betweec 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977.
May, 1982



-20-                                                                               ANNEX I
Page 3
DEPTIh> AT_   77NT10_A1. TNItOfafRS
L,rro   ditto githc It            LIca   rc--- -s          jo .17 cenfr    aslcsois.ee                          r I ict h-id.c.   br -oo-,1.lo.hc           Iy`   I
ororle-  aro..ec-     .........Cant..o                                                                                                        h,icccd.oocaoarrc-coaodfeooracecocc
n      iefr-a  e      icote    cae-gyc e                     haaacradi  occrrcoetcrchor hligher1 drgi,                                        .  ccccocerec
of te 5510cclootey   ea-o   to  'Nis Toone    11  epoeoc, e_d ihee i          'dl-de,  IsaaNrhArcaoordl   ot                       he.bosc                    sc Ife
cod>.,  cc   o coo rn--cs  Oct   oocs,ard  sAc. ec.     1979do ocr-cI.--                                                                              'I_d  I
ARd  csc  oco  O-                                                          Teateechcceo0d-nbiy                           n, .doai-PIIcloco -cocc,
Iota- -  ot Trctstc-o-r.-cllcncc-IA   coT or   arA.>.:  osers:  .99  arc.  obot.,   d roroicdorododb,'7-elsas-cttionanoceol hosiaci ced
Ag Cfc         rtr.tc i-r (U              00  c-t.cccctot   era)r yonialoaGaI'                                           acpcor  Ptloo   t>aie   hrc
LfJr d rc Set. pot-c-0stoe  odc.eooedrs1d                 cIr   ffoc  iINoa                         orcoroAltes. oagtasacotocb97rpenrel    safe
1970~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Id 1980                                                  byeTos   oon ye-.    sabcnnr eoscdig1ool                               1 _oo
II?  Tt Glda    PEN R 11Cr rVITA         ioo   csseo    ot    eto   a                             ilaeraert,tdd                     teohcorl.hoor    olo    r'
c,, kilogea-  of  oo g-InLI    rs  ret corlta   1960. 1911. and 1919                      cree-NrlArdiscarar   alte    I  orIderec,
T.eol Pr-alaioe hI d-htearThrcTd)-Ac If Ad:                   19;iN0, .1970. -od 19801          9U  I190
d'ata P.-  .L                                                                                    Acreage Nf-toof ff'aerholId           Prooo  r    rcl   d   cca.aa.nTce
19a60orie     hn. 197h.  o.  NS   oa-roheocid  orce  icoo ioep     -s
Peei  ad   ZtI llrctrrtorschi                      Ifga  171hpeace   Th   .s- ororoolsiiog    ritlctiia   0 OOgqarot
c-a  loriflY   creedsI forL-             -dirr  i. P -racs                                    ad-actedes-ooi-no  cacco
onnac  hiaotecotcfccrcie oh    d-ies                                              eacyshd-ao-oalaras;sas ci iala     ahil   shr ae Ifl-li
Thceiors    _ier iofsoetepos-           ooeceaeoab,oncocc                                 rr,  c  adcte   for dILfr  c  oT.  a   rornrcaconI
ajar oill he erooher -                                                                     ocaall-   of TIdc   1raao   g:crayoco   ore   c   rral
Ttraiariar Dccnoty                                                                     cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i, I PS_~:ialoded2.  .d
at. ce a   9f   90dd  99dT                                                                 fn loe  erteoc    17 ledatOO  L  o   ce   r,cea. rnec ldp
reyiOF9000   99dt                                                                              Pyl-rie  cecpiar  as-e  nrn kocl  roco LI rr 9ledr ic
Pa --ta   c IL   eceayrePP (pntna-1 laild-ren  kil--c aerl   akigcc(5-piayodrocar   eccdoic   onnho                                                         tar ci   h
iain    90, 19601  aedo 190  daaPdlZ                                                                 rrcre    ecre       l acoaleCb    ora   n   e  r
poaolario0; 1961, 111crd19 IIec-                                                                  It f-cr  -ebrle
Ceode irce  hare I~-cabcooeod    -, icandreeepeI  hosndo(0-er                             aiofcen4   (pe  thoosard pope-o sle)-i,  syeco  ece  er_                    frrai
Jetol -  et 1960 c 1911. a-d 1990  dce.                                        PbroadIt.. rore   cageoa  podl IIc -haso rd .1                          tecooo,           dro
Acect f195eo6acsi9e0laeo-foeg    oheo   otscaoael  re-ce Iind                                        loens"ed  eer     fac  tlocserir  n  id,a,   ln    riseal    frai
Itiere-frs19asaalip  90- lo-  da oreI     srcigP 17.110   o   oT-et   coidcablne   lcnig
'9'  d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~cicaio   rnad   e-raidy  toperojdInagorlne.I  inf snsiererdd
Pall daN 5101>01                                                                              en  o  daily  icih,appear  at lat ho-   coo's    soa-
cocinoci aaeoorrradcarr tolcocights; 19b1-h.  nlf.aod iOl oao                   oa abo  For-afoacors) - for                oIrclo _          roe        II ir ido
FPryP~-             A--.rlperpioaoacceaslctncnc~apcdee                                                rrlraodaniohcd lt-eoaiocao.gbpecan
potiryh-  Aralltesp    leT`yocdesai                   1crlo.tproic                               catI ropc r   960. 191, -o  i               Tf aa
eros.ndahsgolsto_                 Nescplearad-oialtedlrad.IfslrIlysos(Ftt-iahcir_Pro.'                                                                        b-dfosilbafoar
q--cnnoiroeraaoairiona:carroItan.nIf   ne    -dc-hccssI            egie                      .e...I     psont-nofro    n-ob                        orra irrcgn
aot   -noc  otdb  Plhrdo  phhilogoolrely o  norn,Ig  ot-                                              tihegO  prI        I ooortallbr   rc   96.iifoe Idao
ansncs-.b-cm ofd7ath  . aadaioorg   0  rern  fo easer as                                    and       _ _lorceic  ot   n   a  a   os- sffoa   ao    ea
hosryad  lenl; '01-41.1915-sd 1011lras-1060, 111 red 1ffidata
rcf nopp.y  F fond psn-Toe.  her   arpy   oo  is define ot   hor   R-                    cice   roses ac -rd Yo-  in. talg--aI.  nd fTaelao,orea
o- loaese o  60  orosa)  arolsOcer o   do  a-  og 69-cof  nbo0  0c                      1960. 190   fan   its  do t-   Ibe ,se arf-saa   itp.ta-oo    ae
po-Ise pria.o   7t   Ig-ecroT    ralnlp-oc.Ieoeod                                                   oLoogaeoc   corr  of roe :       '       say      - to'  ad -  og  ros  trot ad.ra
ocdcarel. ceccso-cnrboso  of Ti geassaf tot-c.       P. pctaaoirtc.                   aei'oeaorcnin-iofc   -,,'
nocOd road 1000sf; 1901 fA. fdAoa  ol  doer.        ,                                       totreoaoi        c   toso
1halIro                                                                                         TlFt-d 1011Ffgrc-
Laf hccaessy6r  los         -dyorn  boreLt   rtr,fcre  it lifed -etoeg                   Tehloogciac     creyoT.ioo    .c ao   or                                   roc
c bIch;160   l~0 ad 198  doa -ordohocd h  ieernrrediIorLIidroc 
InatP    aeoac1.0(o  sonct                -dnas tho "toroe   ndeoey                              Icec FRatoAsCEocrioccLn1 Th   ocpno      ro   n    ca
ofaepoccatnclaocrh;  9O   ~l  r   90diogboar   00t   inr otlf   htaosaIcO   oosah      elo
aeennocoeaes(jer-sly-ciaaoloeo.oet-ados9rai    Nor                                  naoeaaiydcnde0laccc                                c-at0.ocee                  o
caesriotocIo  poredo han.-isadoeitcyP    I)sLa_leoieprryeoceearos.sfrrgpr-ot
pernagao  tca  oooeoopyrlsac. I  aohc   raa  olc                                             rsso -dr   fth   ooay    ebolppa   eeodfeete  aa
loc -nIisor         _pa-spc _t ..a.tdoc  e Ir_ra   -dr-recacao-ye.oIoItoorertc                                                 heds- I          aa-pceLI_aea 
cosidro   a  -oog  arhicoooabe   caacrftlo  rac -InPP toa-radstmtdPplefcbo    bs  ae-nrc   nncIce   nrot
eooo   dtaoaers.'oeirkcrboo.eaf-roescof,I ioeot                                              adera- _roeof -ylsin   (achi, -cedr,e -i)                           __i_ ohole
accorsane  soapoeddssysayoetaooa~~I   _ gooeadrtLIP- lofeco19n0tr970cr'
lend ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ,                                                         ,-.F y' scafeeosod,n.a-z
-   dco ro.roro   arfiopshiIasgr ce-- tc--r.  o  ssa   -nes
ic    ntl t io-d c                                                                                                       d
Pc.aotorpa  esat  09-  oplcac  dc.rdo  n          ..trc  yo5csg  ht-faooat                                                              oboe    o-c0rie
.aarsqcalaforalrororeaaaas.-faor   nloeeslryleo-I.                                       Ls.oei.AaT,aoo-sd  Peo1cor tcosoroatrLesf
~1pfot  po   lrrot  Peo   -P  clcl  oiroo198--onetc-prccc og'Oo  91
oTfrra tacroloa.erorors. aroo,oc nornr.arcorialnoerctna~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~L



-21-
ANNEX I
Page 4
MALDIVES: Economic Indicators
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980: US $ 260 a/
OUTPUT IN 1981 BY SECTOR                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(%, Constant 1980 Prices)
Value Added
US $ M         _                   1979    1980    1981    1978-81
Agriculture b/           14.8       27.1                   -6.6      5.7    -8.5      -2.1
Industry b/               6.3       11.5                    4.2      6.0    11.1       5.7
Services _/             33.6        61.4                   15.0    11.5    20.1       12.4
Total c/             54.7       100.0                    5.1      8.8     9.2       6.5
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981
US $ Mn         _
GNP at Market Prices                    55.6        100.0
GDP at Market Prices                    54.7         98.4
Net Factor Income                        0.9          1.6
Gross Domestic Expenditure              62.5        112.4
Exports of GNFS                         27.8         50.0
Imports of GNFS                         35.6         64.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Rf. Mn.           % of GDP at Market Price
1981             1979       1980      1981
Current Receipts                   73.3               6.6      14.1       17.8
Current Expenditures               64.7              10.4       11.8      15.7
Current Surplus                     8.6              -3.7        2.3       2.1
Capital Expenditures               48.8               8.1       19.4      11.8
External Assistance c/             45.4               7.0       18.1      11.0
a/ World Bank Atlas, 1981.
b/ Agriculture includes fisheries; lndustry includes quarrying, construction and
electricity; Services includes tourism.
c/ GDP at current market price.
d/ Includes grant assistance to current budget.



-22-                                  ANNEX I
Page 5
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES
(end of period)
1977      1978      1979       1980       1981
(Rf. Million)
Money and Quasi Money                          49.3       52.4      65.0       95.4      86.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    2.1         -        3.0       40.6      61.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  16.4      13.7       17.6       22.1      50.7
(percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                 -       25.7      24.7       28.7      21.0
GDP Deflator (1980=100)                          -       70.2       86.1      100.0    113.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
GDP Deflator                                      -         -       22.6       16.1      13.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      -         -         -    1,253.3       51.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 645.5    -16.5       28.5        25.6    129.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                         MERCHANDIZE EXPORTS (1981)
1980      1981                                      US $       % of
(US $ Mn)                                         000        Total
Exports of Goods and NFS             20.1      28.0         Fresh Skipjack              5,240         60.6
Imports of Goods and NFS             41.3      37.3         Dry Skipjack                   23          0.3
Resource Gap (deficit-)             -21.2      -9.3         Dry, Salted Fish            1,366         15.8
Dry Sharkfins                 226          2.6
Factor Service Income (net)           1.5       0.9         Other Marine Products          220         2.5
Net Traasfers                         2.6       2.7         Garments                    1,358         15.7
Current Account Balance             -17.1      -5.7         Other                         216          2.5
Capital Account                      16.9        5.4          Total                     8,649        100.0
Overall Balance                      -0.2      -0.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                            EXTERNAL DEBT (US $ Mn)
December
1974                                                                                        1980    1981
USS 1.00 - Rf  6.65                                         Total Outstanding               43.9    58.7
Rf  1.00 -US$ 0.15                                          Total Outstanding
and disbursed                23.8    38.9
1975
US$ 1.00 -Rf  5.75
Rf  1.00 =US$ 0.17                                          DEBT SERVICE RATIO (E)           1980    1981
1976                                                                                         1.3      2.3
US$ 1.00 - Rf  8.75
Rf  1.00 - US$ 0.11
1977                                                        IDA LENDING, September 30, 1982
US$ 1.00 -Rf  8.80
Rf  1.00 =US$ 0.11                                          Outstanding and Disbursed                2.17
Undisbursed                              1.03
1978                                                        Outstanding including Undisbursed   3.20
US$ 1.00 =Rf  8.88
Rf  1.00 =US$ 0.11
1979                                                        OFFICIAL ACCOUNTING RATE
US$ 1.00 =Rf  7.45
Rf  1.00 -US$ 0.13                                          Until December 21, 1971
US $ 1.00 = Rf 4.75
1980
US$ 1.00 = Rf  7.55                                         December 21, 1971 - February 18, 1973
Rf  1.00 = US$ 0.13                                         US $ 1.00 = Rf 4.37
1981                                                        February 19, 1973 - March 31, 1982
US$ 1.00 = Rf  7.54                                         US $ 1.00 = Rf 3.93
Rf  1.00   US$ 0.13
Since April 1, 1982
April 1982                                                  US $ 1.00 = Rf 4.00
US 1.00 = Rf 7.00
Rf  1.00 = US$ 0.14
South Asia Programs Department
September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
-23-                          Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALDIVES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                        Amount (net of
Credit                                                         cancellations)
No.     Year  Borrower                Purpose             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
907     1979  Maldives         Fisheries Project            -    3.2       1.03
Total                                                       -    3.2       1.03
of which has been repaid                                   -     -
Total now outstanding                                       -    3.2
Amount sold,
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                                            3.2
Total undisbursed                                                          1.03
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1982)
None
C. STATUS OF PROJECT IN EXECUTION (As of September 30, 1982) 1/
Cr. No. 907 - Fisheries Project; US$3.2 million of June 9, 1979;
Effective Date: August 30, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Project implementation has been satisfactory. Procurement of 500
diesel engines, spare parts, navigational lights and buoys and equipment for
maintenance and repair centers has been completed. About 325 engines are
expected to be installed by the end of 1982 and the remainder by late 1983.
Technical assistance program has been virtually completed. Training in
improved fishing technique was well received by the local fishermen and a
model of "second generation" fishing vessel has been successfully tested.
Another long range vessel is expected to be tested during December, 1982.
[
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-24-                         ANNEX III
Page 1
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project
13 months
(b) Agencies preparing the project
STO and Ministry of Fisheries
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider project
August 1980
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission
March 13, 1982
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations
December 1, 1982
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness
May 16, 1983
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of PCC with composition and responsibil-
ities satisfactory to IDA (para 33).



-25-                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) Fulfillment by GOM of conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of IFAD and OPEC Fund loans and
Norwegian grant (para 35); and
(c) Execution and delivery of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOM and STO (para 36).
Other Conditions
(a) Setting up two new divisions, namely, (1) the Fish
Marketing Division and (2) the Fuel Distribution
Division by May 31, 1983 (para 32);
(b) Preparation of a financing plan to transfer project
fishing vessels to private ownership (para 36);
(c) Determination of fish prices paid to local fishermen
by STO under criteria recommended by the Fisheries
Advisory Board (para 49); and
(d) Preparation by March 1, 1984 by GOM of criteria for
fuel pricing to ensure uniform fuel price in the project
area (para 50).






IBRD 16117R
72040'                          73060'                          730 20                                 DECEMBEF 1982
INDIA                                                  ,                                     . -
ut gan~
HAA ALJFFU
of M~~~~~~~~~~.o ~~~~~HU VA RA FUS0'/                                                                                                                 7000-
-a 1UVAHANOhOO
SRI LANKA
Dhidhdhoo
MALD VES
'Noivaranfa u
6040'                                                                                             K,1h.dh.ff-h,
HAA DHAALU
Mavaidhoo
Maama Kunudhoo                  /
6020'                                                                   /Fevah                                                                                          6°20'-
Maakadoodhoo
SHAVIYANI
-                            Faru koiha|
MALDIVES
SECOND FISHERY PROJECT
Major Fishing  Grounds                                                                                                                                     600'
6000'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
-                         ~~~~~~~Manadhoo
o      Major Fishing  Islands
NOONU)
o       Collecting  Points
Freezing Plant                                       Al,fushi
Major Fishing Grounds
Naifaru    Administrative Capitals                                                               V,-AFAR=
Al f sh    Other  Islands                        -                tRAA            *      VEIOYOO
_ 5040'       _      _   Administrative Atolls                                                                                                                         5
KAODO7ShHOO  s                U              \o,- nr:
Hulhudhoo                               /'1'
0    15         20         30                                                      \                IN V P
0     KILOMETERS                            .7UVVAREE3 8                                          ELVARU
1                10                                                MEEDHOO         -      ,              !AU  *
MILES                                ' -, t HHURAA
Naifaru           LHAVIYANt
5020. '                                                                                                                                                                520'-
BAA
>                              ~~~~~~~            ~~Mabaru.\
Dhra,anrdltoo
This map has been prepared by the                                              8 Eydhafushi                  KAAFu
World Bank's staff exclusively for                              H THAADHOO   EVDHAFUSH/   /
the convenience of the readers of             THU,*¾H00 8
the report to which it is attached               5i005.
5 000     The denominations used and the                               Thulhaadho
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply. on the part of the
World Bank and ,ts affihates. any
1udgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorsementt                               G.ds
or acceptance of such boundarnes
72020'                          72040'                          7300                            73020'                          73040'
-----------.. l 



