E "FFICI A       CREDIT NUMBER 1320 MAL
DOCU M ENTS$
Project Agreement
(Second Fisheries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION
Dated                                 ,1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1320 MAL
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                          4->  , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION (hereinafter called
STO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Maldives (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to four million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that STO
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for
a loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equiva-
lent to one million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 1,900,000) to assist in financing the Project described in
the Development Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agree-
ment) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as Cooper-
ating Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, and the Asso-
ciation is prepared to accept such appointment;
(D) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and STO, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to STO on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS STO, in consideration of the foregoing, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following term, namely that, the Fisheries Advisory Board means
the Board established by the Presidential Decree No. IE/30/79/136
dated September 29, 1979.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. STO shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and fisheries practices.
Section 2.02. STO shall by May 31, 1983, establish and,
thereafter maintain, (a) a Fish Marketing Division responsible
for collection, freezing and marketing of fish and (b) a Fuel
Distribution Division responsible for distributing fuel.
Section 2.03. STO shall determine fish prices for different
varieties of fish, taking into account the quality and handling
costs involved, in accordance with the criteria recommended by
the Fisheries Advisory Board.
Section 2.04. STO shall prepare a financing plan, satis-
factory to the Association for the purpose of transferring owner-
ship of STO'S fishing vessels, acquired under the Project, to
private operators.
Section 2.05. STO shall ensure that the Association shall be
given an opportunity to comment on the specifications and
contract terms and conditions of the refrigeration plant to be
financed by the Norwegian Grant prior to the awarding of its
contract.
Section 2.06. STO shall make fuel readily available to all
mechanized vessels in the Project Area at a price consistent with
the criteria provided under Section 4.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement by February 28, 1985.
Section 2.07. In order to assist STO in carrying out the
Project, STO shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be selected
in accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory to


﻿-3-
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981, and as
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) STO undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by STO to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) STO shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.10. (a) STO shall furnish to the Association and
the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction, work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(b) STO shall: (i) maintain records and procedures to
record adequate and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the
Fund's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,


﻿-4-
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by STO of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between STO and the
Association, STO shall prepare and furnish to the Association and
the Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by STO and the Association
of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Fund
Loan.
(e) STO shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of STO and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.11. STO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, STO shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.12. (a) STO shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) STO shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit or the Fund Loan, or the performance by STO of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of STO
Section 3.01. STO shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and fisheries practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. STO shall at .all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
fisheries practices.
Section 3.03. (a) STO shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, STO shall insure
or cause private operators to insure vessels provided under the
Project against hazards incident to their operation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) STO shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) STO shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account or the
Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and
shall enable the Association's and the Fund's representatives to
examine such records.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. STO shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association and the Fund as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested, including, with-
out limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said audi-
tors: (A) on the separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01
(a) of this Agreement; and (B) in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan made avail-
able to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Fund
Loan Account respectively on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which either the Development Credit
Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement becomes effective, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of STO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the earliest date on which both the Development
Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement shall


﻿-7-
have terminated in accordance with their respec-
tive terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
STO of this event.
(c) If either the Development Credit Agrement, or the Fund
Loan Agreement, terminates in accordance with its terms before
tht date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and the
other Agreement remains in force, all obligations under this Pro-
ject Agreement of STO and of the lender under that other Agree-
ment shall remain in force.
(d) If the Association shall notify STO that its appoint-
ment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agreement has
terminated, all references in this Agreement to the Fund, to the
Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan Agreement shall, with respect to
the responsibilities of the Association as such Cooperating
Institution, be deemed to be deleted.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For STO:
State Trading Organization
Male 20-01
Maldives
Cable address:                        Telex:
STO-MALE                           66006 STO-MF
77014 STO-MF
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of STO may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and STO shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-9-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           A        Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-10-
SCHEDULE 1
Consultants
The following consultants shall be employed by the dates
specified below:
(a) training consultant to assist STO in training project
staff by June, 1983;
(b) a team of management consultants to help STO operate
the Fish Marketing Division by August 31, 1983;
(c) a fuel distribution specialist to help STO operate the
Fuel Distribution Division by August 31, 1983.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     /  tF  day of
198.
FOR SECRETARY


