Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21562-JO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-21932)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.5 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR THE
REDUCTION OF CONSUMPTION OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
(ODS PHASEOUT PROJECT - 1)
December 31, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD 1.00 = US$ 1.42
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.704
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bank          -      World Bank
EXCOM         -      Executive Committee
GCEP          -      General Corporation for Environment Protection
GOJ           -      Government of Jordan
MLFMP         -      Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of Montreal
Protocol
MMRAE         -      Ministry of Municipal, Rural Affairs and Environment
MOP           -      Ministry of Planning
MP            -      Montreal Protocol
PIU           -      Project Implementation Unit
ODP           -      Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS           -      Ozone Depleting Substance
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Inder Sud
Acting Sector Manager/Director:    Sonia Hammarn
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Josephine Masanque



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
JORDAN
ODS PHASEOUT I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    5
6. Sustainability                                                                        6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       9
9. Partner Comments                                                                      9
10. Additional Information                                                              10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    12
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    13
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    14
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    15
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       16
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   17
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR                                                      18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Ozone Depleting Substance
Phase out Project (ODS Phaseout -1) , completed under a Montreal Protocol (MP) Trust Fund Grant (TF -
21932-JO) in the amount of US$1.5 million equivalent provided to the Government of Jordan. The grant
was approved on June 21, 1993, and declared effective on September 17, 1993.
A supplementary funding of US$3.5 million was approved by the Multilateral Fund for the
Implementation of Montreal Protocol under an umbrella agreement drawn for the Second ODS Phase out
Project. Its original closing date of June 30, 2000, was extended to June 30, 2006, which is well within the
MP's guideline of allowing countries,to phaseout ODS within ten years (up to 2010), to enable the
beneficiary to completely phaseout ODS.
The ODS Phaseout-1 was closed on June 30, 2000, after it was extended three times from its
original closing date of December 31, 1996. The primary objective of the extension of the ODS phaseout
-1 closing date was to enable the enterprises to complete the projects and to align this with the original
closing date (June 30, 2000) of ODS phaseout -2. Since the closing date of ODS phaseout -2 was revised,
this ICR for ODS phaseout- I has been prepared to comply with the Bank's policy of ICR issuance within
six months of closing date. The early issuance of the ODS phase-I ICR, disregarding the closing date of
ODS phase-2, would benefit all the Bank's staff involved in the implementation of related projects. As this
is an uncharted field for the Bank when the ODS Project was first introduced, the ICR would support better
understanding of the Project, the sub-projects, and the MP's objectives and further develop an enhanced
implementation system, suited for this type of operation.
Messrs. Geno Nardini, Aerosol Specialist-Consultant, Viraj Vithoontien, MP Senior Regional
Coordinator and Ms. Josephine Masanque, Senior Financial Analyst prepared the ICR and Ms. Marie
Ange Le, Operations Analyst provided the necessary inputs to the ICR. Messrs. Steve Gornan, Team
Leader of Montreal Protocol Operations, Erik Pedersen, MP Senior Environment Engineer, Mmes. Ellen
Tynan, MP Operations Officer, Tufan Kolan, Portfolio Manager, Mr. Sherif Arif, Regional Environmental
Coordinator and Ms. Sonia Hammam, Acting Sector Manager reviewed the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the supervision of ODS Phaseout Project - 2, in May 1999 -
June 2000. The report is based on findings of those missions, discussions with Borrower, supervision
reports, correspondence, and intemal Bank documents found in the project files and the information
collected in the field. An ICR was also prepared by the Borrower, which is summarized in Annex 8.






Project ID: P005238                                        Project Name: ODS PHASEOUT I
Team Leader: Josephine Masanque                           TL Unit. MNSID
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: January 2, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ODS PHiASEOUT I                                 I/C/TF Number: TF-2 1932
Country/Department: JORDAN                                                Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/01/92                                 Effective: 09/17/93           09/17/93
Appraisal:  02/15/93                                  MTR:
Approval:  06/21/93                                 Closing: 06/30/96            06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan/Ozone Unit, General Corporation for
Environmental Protection
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President.      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Kock-Weiser
Country Manager:     Inder K. Sud                               Ram Chopra
Sector Manager:       Sonia Hammnam                             Vinay Bhargava
Team Leader at ICR:   Josephine Masanque                        Bilal Rahill
ICR Primary Author:   Geno Nardini; Viraj Vithoontien
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Project was developed for the purpose of implementing Jordan's Countiy Program for the
phaseout of regulated ozone depleting substances (ODS). Jordan is a signatory of the Montreal Protocol on
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (MP) and has been committed to the complete ODS phaseout in
accordance with the timetable set by the Montreal Protocol. Jordan ratified the MP in May of 1989, and
became eligible to receive grants from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of Montreal Protocol
(MLFMP) which was established to provide support to developing countries to meet their MP obligations.
The preparation of the Country Program for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) is a
prerequisite for obtaining funds from the MLFMP. Jordan's Country Program was completed with the
assistance of the World Bank in 1991; the MLFMP Executive Committee (EXCOM) subsequently
approved this.
Jordan's consumption of ODS in 1991 was estimated at about 625 tons or the equivalent of 779
tons of ozone depleting potential (ODP), largely concentrated in aerosols, foams, halons, and refrigeration.
The ODS consumption profile based on the MP classification for Group I are: (i) 200 tons of
chlorofluorocarbon 12 (CFC- 12) and 11 (CFC-I 1) in the refrigeration sector, 200 tons of CFC- 11 in the
foam sector (including foam used in refrigeration insulation) and 225 tons of CFC-12 in the aerosol sector;
for Group II, the ODS consumption profile includes 77 tons for halon 1211 and 1301, which are used as
fire extinguishers. The underlying objective is to phase out ODS consumption of 779 metric tons (MT) in
the country. Jordan does not have any ODS production facilities, hence, all ODS are imported into the
country.
The principal objective of the ODS phaseout project is to assist the Government of Jordan (GOJ):
(1) phaseout, effectively and efficiently, the use of ODS through the timely adoption of policies,
technological conversions and monitoring measures, in compliance with the MP and its amendments; (2)
provide technical and engineering assistance to the industrial sectors, which consume the bulk of the ODS
and where phaseout can be accomplished in a most cost-efficient manner; and (3) provide resources to
establish local institutional capacities to undertake project implementation and to manage additional,
ozone-related projects as these are identified, prepared and funded.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective has not been revised, but an umbrella agreement was drawn under the ODS
Phaseout Project - 2, with additional funding of US$3.5 million, approved by the EXCOM. The ODS
phaseout - 2 project's original closing date of June 30, 2000, was extended to June 30, 2006, which is well
within the MLFMP's guideline of allowing countries to phaseout ODS within ten years (up to 2010). This
extension would also allow the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to complete additional new projects, e.g.
halon, chiller, etc., recently approved by the MLFMP's EXCOM.
Initially, the extension of the ODS phaseout project -I closing date was to complete the
sub-projects as well as to align this with the original closing date (June 30, 2000) of ODS phaseout-2.
Since the closing date of ODS phaseout -2 was revised, this ICR for ODS phaseout- I has been prepared to
comply with the Bank's policy of ICR issuance within six months of closing date.
- 2 -



The recipients of the grant funds included three aerosol enterprises, one foam enterprise and the
implementing agency, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established under the General Corporation
for Environmental Protection (GCEP). The grant financing was provided to the enterprises for technology
transfers, equipment purchase, training, trial runs and incremental costs and to the PIU for institutional
strengthening and capacity building.
3.3 Original Components:
The original subprojects presented to the MLFMP EXCOM consist of aerosol and foam projects
aggregating to about US$1.4 million and allocation of US$0.1 million for institutional strengthening. The
table below shows the MLFMP's grant distributed as follows:
Amount of the OTF Grant Allocated
Category                           (Expressed in Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Sub-projects under Part A                                  1,400,000.00
(2) Goods and services under Part B                             100,000.00
TOTAL                                                          1,500,000.00
3.4 Revised Components:
There were four subprojects under ODS Phaseout Project -1. These sub-projects, listed as priority
sub-projects in Jordan's ODS Country Program, aimed to introduce non-ODS technology in aerosols and
foam sub-sectors and to eliminate the use of ODS. In addition, the Project will help strengthen the PIU's
project management capabilities. The actual distribution of the MLFMP's grant is shown in the table
below:
Amount of the OTF Grant Allocated
Category                                (Expressed in Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Sub-projects under Part A - Equipment                           1,396,000.00
(2) Goods and services under Part B                                  100,000.00
TOTAL                                                               1,496,000.00
The original components included two other projects of about US$158,000.00, for an enterprise that moved
out of the country and another that decided to drop out. The unallocated amount of US$158,000.00 was
later reallocated to increase the price contingencies, which was comparatively lower than the 15 percent
allowable under the MP directive (para. 4.2).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This is not applicable, since the project was appraised in 1993, when the Quality at Entry Group
has not been established.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project achieved its ODP phaseout target successfully. The project phased out about 155 MT
of ODS from the change and modification of technology used by the four enterprises. It was also successful
in building the capacity and strengthening the PIU, which consists of two staff of the GCEP and three
consultants (Accountant, Technical Expert and Researcher). Originally, the estimated ODS to be phased
out was 355 MT, but it was later identified that at appraisal, the ODS counted under one of the enterprises
(JOPETROL) was duplicating the ODS to be phased out by other enterprises, the primary consumers of
JOPETROL's product (Annex 1).
The PIU has conducted about 20 workshops and seminars, advertised on public televisions and
radios and distributed brochures and flyers to raise public awareness of the ozone issues. It has also
established a licensing system for ODS user, established ODS import monitoring procedures as well as
discourage the use of ODS by encouraging the Government to increase ODS prices to levels where the
ODS substitutes have become financially attractive.
Jordan's Country Program was prepared in 1991, when the ODS phase out project was relatively
new to all parties concerned. Like all other countries treading an untried area, Jordan committed to phase
out ODS, and since then, identified more enterprises using ODS, which resulted in the increase of ODS
consumption from 779 MT to about a little less than a 1000 MT. Consequently, the findings of more
ODS consumption n the country required additional funding, thus the ODS Phaseout Project Phase-2 came
about, which required the extension of closing date.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The Purification of Liquid Petroleum Gas subproject aims to provide a local source of deodorized
LPG, an appropriate substitute for CFC propellants. The implementation period of this subproject went
beyond four years, due to the tight budget allocated for the sub-projects. The project was originally
appraised in 1993, and by 1998, when the project was implemented, the project cost had increased. At
start-up, the project worked properly, and its aerosol clients are satisfied with the quality of propellant that
they are currently getting.
One sub-project has a problem with its propellant tank, whose specifications were not accepted
because it failed the 100% X-ray testing of butt welds. The PIUJ succeeded in seeking the assistance of the
Royal Scientific Society of Jordan to assist the enterprise to fix the flawed areas of the LPG storage tanks,
which is expected to be completed in mid-January 2001, and full operation is scheduled before February
2001.
The foam project of about US$100,000.00 was dropped as the enterprise decided not to
participate. An aerosol project of about US$58,000.00 was also eliminated since the enterprise moved out
of the country. The budget allocated for these were later returned to the budget and subsequently allocated
for contingency purposes. The original project cost at $1,500,000.00 includes less than 5% contingencies,
and the additional $158,000.00 from these projects increased the contingency allocation to about' 11%,
which is well within the 15% contingency allocation allowed by the MP. This change later proved
beneficial as the price contingencies for all aerosol projects had to be increased to about 15%, due to the
long duration it took for the projects to get off the ground, about 3-5 years, from 1993 to 1996-1998, when
-4-



the sub-projects were finally implemented.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
This is not applicable to this type of project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
This is not applicable to this type of project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Under the Project, some aspects of the PIU's management performance were strengthened. About
five staff in the PIU benefited from the training they acquired in the implementation process and in the local
management of the Project. The PIU staff gained the knowledge, skills and experience by twinning with
International Technical Consultants during appraisal, supervision and completion of sub-projects. The PIU
staff also developed furither their procurement knowledge and experience, particularly from processing
contracts using the Bank's procurement guidelines. The Financial Staff enhanced his skills and familiarity
in processing Bank's related projects. The enterprises and their staff obtained additional know-how and
skills on new and more efficient technology.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Jordan was one of the pioneer MP member countries that shaped the ODS Phaseout Project. At
project start-up in 1993, both the PIU and the beneficiary enterprises were not familiar with the MP and
Bank's procedures. All the key players in the ODS Program were new to the ODS operations. The PIU
staff assigned to this Project were also new to the Bank's guidelines in regard to project processing and MP
procedures. The Project was at its embryonic stage, causing lengthy delays during project preparation and
project appraisal stage. Because of the precarious circumstances surrounding the Project, the institutional
strengthening component was introduced at the outset, The procurement of technology and equipment
exacerbated the delays experienced in finalizing the contracts due to very little information available
regarding the general background of technology suppliers and the lack of experience in dealing with the
Bank and its procurement guidelines. The World Bank dealt with this issue by conducting a special
knowledge management seminar for the technical experts covering the basic nature of ODS projects, the
MP eligibility criteria and procedures, Bank project processing guidelines and procedures and the latest
technology available in each of the sub-sectors. All sub-projects were commissioned and all beneficiary
enterprises have since disposed and destroyed their old equipment, observed by the PIU and completely
freeze the use of ODS.
All sub-projects took longer time than expected to implement, due to the slow, evolving learning
process, experienced in the implementation of the Project by all parties, the GOJ /PIU, the enterprises,
MLFMP EXCOM and the World Bank, as implementing agency of the MLFMP. The technical support
and investment projects were appraised in February 1993 and the Grant Agreement between the
Government of Jordan (GOJ) and the World Bank was signed on September 17, 1993. The sub-grant
agreements between GOJ and the enterprises were signed in late 1995 and early 1996, and project
implementation started behind schedule. The delay in project implementation necessitated the extensions of
the closing date.
- 5-



As this Jordan Project was one of the first ODS projects implemented by the Bank, guidelines,
procedures and requirements gradually evolved based on the implementation experience, which were then
formally adopted and set-up for the operating agencies. The project proceeded at a time when it was
considered important to engage the ODS sector consumers upfront, as early as possible, and approval of
projects was seen as necessary to confirm ownership of the program.  The lack of an exceptional
occurrence of the emerging program was the fact that individual projects' formal proposal documents were
not required when the ODS project phase-2 was developed, though enterprises were already identified. The
$3,500,000.00 was requested and approved by the Executive Committee without such documentation. At
this time there were no rules and each implementing agency was proceeding as best it could, closely
coordinating with the Bank, as it identifies additional dispersed, small enterprises using ODS in remote
areas within the country.
Factors affecting the project are explained in detail in Section 4.2. The project was closed on June
30, 2000 as compared to the original closing date of June 30, 1996. Against the total allocation of
US$1,500,000, the total disbursements made were US$1,496,094. The last disbursement of US$74,155.17
was made in July 1998 and the project accounts were closed on May 20, 1999. An undisbursed grant
balance of US$3,096.00 was cancelled and retumed to the Trust Fund (para. 5.4).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The successful implementation of the Project by the PIU were largely dependent on the
Govermment support, which approved the licensing system for ODS user, establishing ODS import
monitoring procedures, and providing authority to MMRAE to recommend ODS price increase through
special tax imposed on CFCs, to levels that encourage users to switch to the low-priced ODS substitutes.
The Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Municipal, Rural Affairs and Environment (MMRAE) and the
GCEP provided the support and assistance for the project to succeed. The MOP trained the PIU staff in
the processing of withdrawal applications; the MMRAE and the GCEP supported the public awareness
campaign and in obtaining Government's approval of the required legislation (para. 6.1).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The performance of the PIU is satisfactory. Though the project had a slow start, the staff quickly
learned the procurement and disbursement requirements of the Bank, as well as project preparation,
appraisal, disposal of equipment and completion from the International Technical Consultants.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The actual project cost of ODS phase-I is well within the appraisal estimates, though two of the
enterprises were eliminated from the Project (paras. 3.3-3.4). About US$3,096.00 was left undisbursed as
of the closing date, primarily from the sub-projects; the institutional strengthening was sufficient (para.
5.1).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the objective of the Project to phaseout ODS consumption in three subprojects had been
largely achieved, though one of the subprojects had been delayed in its operation (para. 4.2). Another
- 6 -



aspect that requires extensive review in measuring sustainability is the development of institutional
arrangements in the country to sustain the prohibited entry of ODS products.
Specifically, the technical aspects of the sub-projects indicate that these are all sustainable, with
good quality HAPs, a new, well-maintained and safe equipment.
The institutional arrangements to continue with conversion projects is well established in the PIU,
which has a core staff, familiar with the sectors and with Bank's procedures. The environmental policy and
incentives are also in place. The 1991 Country Program established the sector profiles and phase-out
strategy that is continuously followed in ODS phaseout-2 project portfolios
In order to support the ODS phaseout policy, the Government of Jordan provided duty exemptions
for the import of capital equipment for conversion of ODS units to non-ODS processes (para. 5.2), in
accordance with IDA guidelines. The ODS Regulation (Instructions for Monitoring and Control of ODS
Issued Pursuant to Article 8 (f) of the Environment Protection Law No. 12 in 1995) substantially advanced
the process of compliance with obligations under the Montreal Protocol. The regulation includes rules like
the non issuance of license for new ODS facilities and permit for expansion of existing ODS enterprises.
As regards the institutional strengthening, the experience and training acquired by the staff from
the PIU would enable them to continue to support similar activities of the Government. In addition, the
staff could work as consultants to other international organizations/agencies, e.g. UNIDO, GTZ, USAID,
World Bank etc.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There is no transition issue under the Project, as the ODS phase-2 is still in process. The PIU is
closely monitoring one project that the Royal Scientific Society of Jordan is currently assisting to fix some
defects identified in the LPG storage tanks. The PIU staff will continue to provide such report where
needed, under ODS Phaseout -2.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance has also been part of a larger learning experience. Indeed, there were
several delays related with the project, mainly because this was an evolving, learning experience. After
Jordan signed the MP in 1991, initially, there was a considerable enthusiasm to present projects for MP
funding approval, and the Bank moved quickly to accommodate this requirement, but the prolonged Ozone
Trust Fund process and the development of agreements under which funds could be moved from the
MFLMP through the Bank, to the PIU, and to the enterprise, took 2-3 years. As far as preparation was
concemed, the project's description provides some flexibility to attain satisfactory implementation
performance, in spite of the expanded time and the choice of technologies, etc. that became available.
7.2 Supervision:
In the early stages, the Bank's performance was slow (para. 7.1), due to lack of coordination and
support within the Bank. The task management of the project changed several times, causing delays in
- 7 -



project implementation. Originally, the Technical Department managed the Project. It was not fully
integrated into the Country Department's (CD) overall program, which could have gained from the Bank's
operational knowledge and experience. Later, in 1994, this was moved to the Industry and Energy Division
of the CD. It was integrated into the overall business plan and an experienced division staff was assigned
to manage the program. The supervision performance imnproved when task management became stable and
it has since been satisfactory.
Initially, the preparation of sub-projects under the Project was less than satisfactory, due to lack of
MP standard implementation guidelines and eligibility criteria for projects during the early stage of
sub-project preparation. Consultants engaged by the Bank under the Project prepared these sub-projects,
and the supervision team became heavily dependent on their professional judgment to decide the technical
suitability of the equipment for the beneficiary enterprise. The MP guidelines and eligibility criteria
emerged in the process and all the parties gained knowledge and experience.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank's performance is satisfactory; not to mention that this is a unique project, uncharted in so
many ways. The Bank worked closely with the PIU and the line ministries, preparation, appraisal and
later, monitoring the progress of implementation of these sub-projects.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in preparing the Project was satisfactory, though in the initial stages,
it suffered from the slow start. In particular, during preparation the PIU was not established yet, and the
Government staff, who later became PIU staff, were not familiar with Bank's project processing
procedures. Under the institutional strengthening component (para.4.5), the PIU staff gained experience
and benefitted from on-the-job training by the experts involved in this project.
7.5 Governmient implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. Initially, the Project experienced
slow  disbursement processing, as the PIU was just learning.  However, by mid-term  of project
implementation, the Government adequately addressed these concerns and made significant progress in
overcoming these deficiencies satisfactorily. The PIU staff was trained by the MOP in processing
withdrawal application and procurement.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PIU performance was slow in executing procurement and payments at the initial stages of the
Project (para.7.4). The PIU accomplished a lot in terrns of institutional strengthening, by providing various
training to its staff, both locally and intemationally. This improved all aspects of performance in project
implementation. They familiarized themselves and explained as well to the other ministries about issues on
eligibility criteria, incremental cost calculation, methodology and the roles, responsibilities and
accountabilities of all parties in the project. Thus, the beneficiary enterprises complied with the project
covenant, particularly in providing the counterpart funds.  The overall performance of the PIU was
satisfactory.
-8-



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Although the Project was not completed on schedule, the overall performance of the Borrower can
still be rated satisfactory due to various factors beyond their control, as earlier described. There were
some problems encountered in the procurement and technical aspects of the sub-projects. These problems
were offset by the PIU, which performed well despite occasional staff constraints.
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons leamed from the ODS-1 project, which is summarized below, have particular
relevance for the implementation of the ODS- 2 and future sub-projects.
1.    Proiect Implementation. The overall timetable for project implementation was not viable. The
uniqueness of the Project needed adequate time for implementation. Based on experience, the sub-grant
agreement negotiations can take months. The International Competitive Bidding is time consuming, and
re-bidding is sometimes inevitable.  In some cases, suppliers often do not comply with delivery
requirements. In view of these constraints, a minirnum of 30 months should be provided for the
implementation of each project.
2.    Project Preparation. The Project suffered from the haste in preparing the data on production,
consumption of ODS and baseline equipment as well as in sub-project preparation. There was shortage of
aerosol and foam experts in the field, and the MLFMP implementing agencies, e.g. UNIDO, UNEP, etc.,
were competing for their services, causing delays in sub-project processing. If caution were exercised,
project implementation and supervision would have been well within the timetable, as planned. The Bank
should secure the engagement of experts' services and coordinate among the MLFMP implementing
agencies to ensure that project preparation does not suffer.
3.    Project Management. Close cooperation and coordination among government entities proved vital
in the smooth implementation of the project. The Audit Bureau, the Inspection and Control Bureau, the
MOP, MMRAE, and GCEP coordinated well to assist the PIU.
4.     Bank Management. The Bank has to review its policy regarding the application of its guidelines
and procedures to all projects funded by the donors. In the MP case, the MP EXCOM set their own
guidelines and procedures, which can sometimes be different, if not contrary to Bank's guidelines and
procedures. This causes some uncertainty to the Borrower, who tends to switch more to other agencies,
i.e., UNIDO, UNEP, GTZ etc., because of the additional burden that the Bank's guidelines require. Some
of the examples pointed out by the beneficiary include: (i) easier implementation procedures; and (ii) a
Bank's guideline that sets the closing date earlier than the MP allowable 10 year period to phaseout ODS,
where the Bank imposes a 3-5 year project implementation and closing date.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower/PIUs comments are included in Annex 8, "Summary of Borrower's ICR".
(b) Cofinanciers:
This is not applicable to this project.
9



(c) Other partners (TGOs/private sector):
This is not applicable to this project.
10. Additional Information
- 10-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Implementation Indicators                 Target ODP             Actual ODP
85                     85
1. Haddad and Sons                                      (CFC-12)                (CFC-12)
2. Jordan Petroleum (JOPETROL)                             200
30                     30
3. Household and Toiletries                             (CFC-12)                (CFC-12)
40                     40
4. Kolaghassi Foams                                       (CFC)                  (CFC)
NOTE: Household and Toiletries will be in full operation in February 2001.
There is no actual ODP for JOPETROL, since the ODP has been counted as part of the ODP phased
out by the enterprises, the primary consumers of the LPG.
-11-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Estimated Project Cost and Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Local  I  Foreign   I  Total        Financing        Actual         Actual
Total         % of
-----(US$ thousands)-----           %            Project      Appraisal
__________  ____________                                Cost         Estimates
(a) Component 1: Technology
Transfer and Engineering Assistance
(i) Purification of Liquid
Petro]eum Gas                 50           650         700           100            801           1.144
JOPETR.OL*                                                                       (801)
(ii) Sectoral ODS Phaseout          140         560          700           100           595            .850
Projects
Haddad & Sons*                                                                  (277)
Household & Toiletries*                                                         (150)
Kolaghassi Foams*                                                               (168)
(b) Component 2: Project
Implementation                    100                      100           100           100            .010
Capacity Development
TOTAL                                  290         1,210        1,500         100           1,496           .997
*Amounts in parenthesis indicate the actual project cost of each beneficiary-enterprise.
Procurement Methods
_____ _  Appraisal Estimates                              Actual
Category       ICB        IS          LS         Total       ICB          IS        LS        Total
--(U----------------------------------(US$ thousand)----------------------------------------
Equipment            _    1,100        200         1,300                  1,195       171       1,366
Services             _      100         90          200                      75        55        130
Total               _    1,210       290         1,500                  1,Z80       216       1,496
- 12 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 13 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/91                         2   Environmental Specialist and
Environmental Engineer
05/92                         3   Environmental Engineer,
Aerosl Specialist, and
Foam Specalist
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/93                         2   Environmental Engineer
and Aerosol Specialist
06/93                         2   Environmental Engineer
Foam Specialist
Supervision
02/94                         2  Financial Analyst and                 S                  S
Aerosol Specialist
05/95                         3  Environmental Specialist,             S                  S
Financial Analyst, and
Aerosol Specialist
08/96                         2  Financial Analyst and                 S                  S
Foam Specialist
11/96                         2  Financial Analyst, and                S                  S
Foam Specialist
11/97                         2  Financial Analyst and                 S                 S
Aerosol Specialist
ICR
5/99                          1   MP Environmental                     S                  S
Coordinator
2/00                          1   Aerosol Specialist                   S                  S
5/00                          1   Financial Analyst                    S                  S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              uS$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               17.9                        43.4
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                              44.9                       182.3
ICR
Total                                    62.8                       225.7
- 14 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
ZSector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
F Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
M Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
F Gender                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Private sector development             0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management               0 H  O SU S M  0 N  0 NA
DOther (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 15-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                             OHSOS  OU   OHU
? Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
•  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
• Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
- 16-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Memorandum and Recommendation to the Country Department Report, September 16, 1993
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement, September 17, 1993
Project Supervision Reports (PSRs), Form 590s, Aide-Memoires, and Back-to-Office reports, 1991-2000
- 17 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (Summary)
Introduction. There were four sub-projects under the first ozone depleting substance project in Jordan,
which was approved by the Executive Committee (EXCOM) of the Montreal Protocol (MP) for
implementation by the World Bank. The Government of Jordan (GOJ) has signed a Grant Agreement with
the World Bank for US$1.5 million to finance the technical support and investment projects for ODS phase
out. The ODS phase out target was 155 tons; this seems less but Jordan Petroleum Refinery Company
(JOPETROL), a sub-project took more than 50% of the total grant for a hydrocarbon propellant supply.
The four sub-projects under phase -I were as follows:
1. Household and l'oiletries Manufacturing Company
2. M. Haddad and Sons Company
3. Kolaghassi Foam & Mattress Factory Company
4. Jordan Petroleunm Refinery Company
All these sub-projects were completely implemented and commissioned. The phase-I sub-projects was the
first MP related grant to Jordan and the PIU staff was totally involved in implementation. All parties
including the PIU were not familiar with the MP and the Bank project implementation procedures.
Therefore, a delay has been recorded in implementation time, but had the ability to establish such
cooperative relationship and friendly atmosphere with the World Bank staff and its consultants. The
experience that was gained from phase-I has been utilized in the phase-2 project implementation.
Achievement of Proiect Objectives. The sub-project for Household and Toiletries Manufacturing Company
is delayed in the commissioning, due to unsuccessful testing of its LPG storage tanks, which the Royal
Scientific Society ofiJordan is currently helping to remedy. This will be in operation by February 1, 2001.
The Haddad and Kolaghassi sub-projects were completed without any significant problems. The delay was
actually attributed to the enterprise policy in renewing their old production lines completely. The necessary
and required preparation of infrastructure work for installation of the new production lines took a long
time.  In fact, the equipment has been delivered according to schedule, but not installed until the
infrastructure work was completed. JOPETROL sub-project was delayed because of technical difficulty in
the implementation.  Another cause of delay is the very strict JOPETROL rules in processing the
International Competitive Bidding documents and in concluding the contract due to management
bureaucracy. In fact, the sub-project has been divided into four bids because it was impossible for one
supplier to accomplish the whole job in a satisfactory manner to the JOPETROL. However, it was an
interesting experience from the technical point of view.
Implementation Experience and Results. There was some delay in establishing and recruiting the PIU staff.
The frequent changes of task managers at the earlier stage of the program affected significantly the
establishment of the PIU. Also, when the project was approved financially, there was no individual project
proposal documents for the sub-projects. The enterprises were hesitant in the conversion, since they were
not aware of the nature of the program, its features, probable impacts and associated results on their
industry. At the beginning, the project did not move fast forward because of under-budgeting. The
sub-grant agreement negotiations took longer than expected. The planned time for implementation was not
adequate. The project implementation has broadened the PIU staff knowledge horizon from day-to-day
experience, and improved the project management capability through collaboration with the World Bank
team.
- 18-



PIU Performance. The PIU struggled initially with the enterprises in order to convince them to sign the
sub-grant agreements and in learning quickly the World Bank's procurement procedures. This was the most
important step for PIU to make at the earlier stage. As a matter of fact, the PIU succeeded in achieving
both goals. The PRU has the ability to establish such cooperative relationship and friendly atmnosphere with
World Bank staff and consultants through well-organized and planned effective missions.
World Bank Performance. The close supervision and cooperation of the World Bank associated with the
task management played a significant and major role in achieving the successful phase out. The prompt
response, the effective close supervision and the convenience provided by the World Bank were behind the
success of the project implementation. It should be admitted that despite the series of difficulties at the
beginning, the performance of the World Bank as implementing agency of MP and the PIU were
satisfactory and objectives were achieved. Furthermore, the MP program has proved to be a successful one
on the level of the international community and an example of cooperation of all parties involved.
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned. There is no doubt that the frequent changes of task managers
at the earlier stage had affected significantly the delay in project implementation. The non-availability of
the LPG as substitute of CFC-12 in aerosol conversion sub-projects discouraged the enterprises to move
forward in implementation. The lack of public awareness especially for the involved enterprises in the
project contributed to delay.  This should have been the first step done before proceeding with
implementation plan. The planned time for project implementation was not sufficient. The preparation of
the specification, bidding process and associated consequences of correspondences, and negotiations with
suppliers is quite complicated and time consuming. The shortage of qualified technical staff of some
enterprises and lack of experience and technical capabilities limited the speed of the implementation
process. Therefore, adequate time should be allowed for the implementation of the project. In fact, this
was considered to some degree in the phase-2 project implementation. For future cooperation, more time
should be given and each enterprise should be treated independently.
- 19-



