Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER 21932 JO
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant
 Agreement
(Ozone Depleting Substance Phase-Out Project)
between
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated September 17, 1993
OTF GRANT NUMBER 21932 JO
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1993, between HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, acting as 
Trustee of grant funds provided by Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that 
Deplete the Ozone Layer into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
OTF, the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) and Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET 
to assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby 
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the 
Ozone Layer to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer have 
established the Multilateral Fund (Fund) for the Implementation of the Montreal 
Protocol to operate under the authority of the said Parties to provide the financing 
of agreed incremental costs to enable the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of 
Article 5 of the Protocol to comply with control measures provided for in the 
Protocol;
WHEREAS (C) the Executive Committee of the Fund and the Bank have entered into 
an agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which the Executive Committee has 
agreed to provide funds into the OTF to be administered by the Bank as Trustee in 
Page  2
accordance with the provisions of the said agreement and the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested 
assistance from the resources of the OTF in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend a grant (the OTF Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i), and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant; and
(v)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  3
(a)
"MOP" means the Ministry of Planning of the Recipient;
(b)
"MMRAE" means the Ministry of Municipalities, Rural Affairs and the 
Environment of the Recipient;
(c)
"ODS" means an ozone depleting substance;
(d)
"PIU" means the project implementation unit, to be established in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Beneficiary" means any public or private enterprise which consumes ODS 
and with which PIU shall conclude a contract pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the carrying out of a Sub-project;
(f)
"Sub-project" means a project prepared by a Beneficiary and approved for 
financing from the proceeds of the OTF Grant; and
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the OTF Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred thousand dollars 
($1,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purposes of the 
Project from the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS Clause (C) of the Preamble 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall: (i) carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, engineering and finan- cial practices and with due 
regard to ecological and environmental factors; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation 
arrangements set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Recipient shall: (a) maintain procedures, records and accounts 
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project (including its costs and 
benefits to be derived from it).
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Trustee;
     (ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee, as soon as available, but not 
later than six months after the end of the respective fiscal year, certified copies of 
its audited financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the OTF Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the OTF Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions, namely, that the Recipient shall have established the PIU in 
accordance with the provision of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the OTF Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Page  5
Section 6.01. The President of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Planning    
P.O. Box 555            
Amman                   
Jordan                   
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
21319     
Amman        
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Fouyez Tarawneh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Ram Chopra
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
   OTF Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Page  6
Category
   Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-projects under
   1,400,000
100% of foreign
Part A of the
expenditures and
Project
100% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods and services
     100,000
100%
under Part B of 
the Project
TOTAL
   1,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
OTF Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to phase-out the use of 
ODS through the introduction of appropriate technology measures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Technology Transfer and Engineering Assistance
This component includes the implementation by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects for 
the phasing-out of ODS', including:
(1)
a Sub-project for purification of liquid petroleum gas (LPG), including the 
provision of equipment and the implementation of measures for (i) safe storage faci- 
lities for LPG, (ii) operation of olefin removal system to remove odorous contaminants 
from LGP, and (iii) operation of LPG filling and distribution facilities; and
(2)
Sub-projects for the phasing-out of ODS in other uses, including (a) flexible 
foam applications, with an emphasis on the producers of foam bunstock used for 
mattress and cushion production, (b) Sub-projects in the area of aerosol, and (c) 
Sub-projects in other priority areas, including the areas of air conditioning and 
commercial/industrial cooling.
Part B:
Development of Project Implementation Capacity
(1)
Provision of technical support to enhance the capacity of agencies of the 
Recipient to deal with ozone protection issues and, in particular, to carry out the 
following:
(a)
technical awareness and assistance measures to familiarize industry and 
the public with ozone protection technologies and issues;
(b)
monitoring of the consumption and use of ODS, including consideration of 
a licensing system for such uses;
(c)
financial measures for funding the phasing-out of the uses of ODS; and
(d)
institutional measures for ozone protection, including preparation of 
terms of reference for a joint industry-government ODS phase-out committee.
Page  7
(2)
Provision of office equipment for PIU.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price 
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall 
provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Trustee, one to be applied to all 
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid 
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 but less than 
$200,000 per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers from 
at least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines.
3.
Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs 1 and 2, items of 
goods which the Recipient and the Trustee agree that they are of a proprietary nature, 
may be procured under contracts to be negotiated with the suppliers thereof on terms 
satisfactory to the Trustee.
Part B:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule [5] to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 25% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in 
Page  8
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of 
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Trustee review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Trustee or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Arrangements
1.
The Recipient shall assign the overall responsibility for the carrying out of 
the Project to MMRAE.
2.
To facilitate implementation of the Project, MMRAE shall reorganize the ozone 
working groups established within it into a national committee for the phasing-out of 
ODS, with representatives from MMRAE, MOP and other ministries and agencies of the 
Recipient with direct involvement in environmental issues. Such committee shall be 
responsible for providing guidance on issues related to the Project and on 
ozone-related issues, as defined in the Recipient's Ozone National Action Plan.
3.
MMRAE shall establish and maintain until Project completion, a Project 
Implementation Unit (PIU) with representatives from MMRAE and MOP, in addition to 
technical and support staff, assigned on a full-time basis, whose number and 
qualifications shall be adequate for the performance by PIU of its responsibilities 
under the Project.
4.
MMRAE shall assign to PIU the technical responsibility for (a) the carrying out 
of Part A of the Project; (b) the appraisal of Sub-projects and the conclusion of 
contracts for the carrying out thereof with the relevant Beneficiaries; (c) the 
maintenance of Project accounts, (d) the review of the procedures to be followed by 
Beneficiaries in the procurement of goods and services to ensure the conformity of 
such procedures with the requirements set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(e) the preparation and the furnishing to the Trustee and MMRAE of quarterly reports 
on progress in the carrying out of the Project.
5.
MMRAE shall cause PIU: (a) to carry out the Project in accordance with annual 
work programs to be agreed upon with the Trustee; and (b) to obtain the Trustee's 
approval of any Sub-project under Part A of the Project and of any activity included 
in Part B of the Project, prior to approving the financing thereof from the proceeds 
of the OTF Grant.
6.
For the financing of any Sub-project from the proceeds of the OTF Grant, PIU 
shall conclude a contract with the Beneficiary responsible for the carrying out of 
such Sub-project, whereby:
(a)
the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated for the carrying out of the 
Sub-project shall be transferred to the relevant Beneficiary as a grant;
(b)
the Beneficiary shall be required to implement the Sub-project in 
accordance with technical details and in accordance with a time-schedule satisfactory 
to PIU, and to maintain adequate records;
(c)
the goods and services to be financed from the proceeds of the OTF Grant 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
PIU, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee, shall be 
entitled to examine the goods and sites included in the Sub-project, and any relevant 
records and documents; and
(e)
the PIU shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the OTF Grant upon failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with PIU.
7.
Contracts to be concluded by PIU with Beneficiaries for the carrying out of 
Page  9
Sub-projects shall be so concluded on the basis of a model contract form agreed upon 
between MMRAE and the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the OTF Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the OTF Grant Account the eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
Page  10
of the OTF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposits in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
