Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF092328 
 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF DIBOUTI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
acting as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund 
 
Dated June 5, 2008  
 
Page  2
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 5, 2008 entered into between REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World 
Bank”), acting as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund, for the purpose of 
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The World Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter 
alia, of (a) the action which the recipient has already taken under the Program and which 
is described in Part A of Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement, and (b) the 
Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The 
Recipient and the World Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - GRANT 
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement a grant in an amount equal to five 
million Dollars ($5,000,000) (“Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Section I of the Schedule to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the  
World Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
Page  3
2
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the World Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Grant which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
ADDITIONAL REMEDIES  
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (i) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The World Bank has determined after the Effective Date referred to in 
Section 5.03 of this Agreement that prior to such date but after the date 
of this Agreement, an event has occurred which would have entitled the 
World Bank to suspend the Recipient's right to make withdrawals from 
the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective on the date such 
event occurred. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until: (a) evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the following condition 
has been satisfied: namely, the execution and delivery of this Agreement on 
behalf of the Recipient have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action; and (b) the funds deposited in the Food Price Crisis 
Response Trust Fund are available for disbursement. 
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01(a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World 
Bank of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, 
a
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the 
Member Country, showing the following matter: namely, on behalf of the 
Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
Page  4
3
executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 5.01(a)
 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any 
event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased 
to exist.  
 
5.04. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless 
the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a 
later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Ministère de l’Economie, des Finances et de la  
Planification chargé de la Privatisation 
B.P. 13 
Djibouti City 
Republic of Djibouti 
 
Facsimile: 
 
253-35-65-01 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Page  5
4
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Page  6
5
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Sharm El-Sheikh, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI 
 
By /s/ Simon Mibrathu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting 
as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund  
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds 
 
Section I.  Actions Under the Program  
 
A. 
Action Taken Under the Program 
 
The action taken by the Recipient
 
under the Program is the following
:
the 
Government has adopted a draft additional budget law for fiscal year 2008 providing, in 
particular, for the exemption from payment of the domestic consumption tax on five basic 
food items (rice, sugar, cooking oil, wheat flour and powder milk). 
 
B. Action 
to 
be
 
Taken Under the Program
 
The action to be taken by the Recipient under the Program is the following: the 
Recipient has prepared an action plan, satisfactory to the World Bank, to channel direct 
support to the most vulnerable households. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Grant Proceeds  
 
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World 
Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Grant Amounts.
 
The Grant shall be withdrawn in two tranches.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Grant to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Grant Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
First Tranche 
 
4,000,000 
 
Second Tranche 
1,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
5,000,000 
 
Page  8
7
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second 
Tranche unless the World Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank:
 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program;  
 
2. 
 
that the macro-economic policy framework of the Recipient is 
appropriate; and  
 
3.  
that the action described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule has been 
taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the World Bank is not so satisfied, it may give 
notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the 
notice, the Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the World Bank with 
respect to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, then the World Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient, cancel all or any part of the unwithdrawn balance of the Grant. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Grant Amounts.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the World Bank the request for 
withdrawal of the First Tranche from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain the 
following two deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts”) on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the World Bank:   
 
(a)  
a deposit account in Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”); and  
 
(b) 
a deposit account in Djiboutian Francs (“Local Currency Deposit 
Account”).   
 
2. 
The withdrawal of (i) the First Tranche and (ii) the Second Tranche from the 
Grant Account shall be deposited by the World Bank into the Foreign Currency Deposit 
Account.  Upon the deposit of (i) the First Tranche and (ii) the Second Tranche into the 
Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the Recipient shall deposit an equivalent amount into 
the Local Currency Deposit Account.  
 
E. Audit.
 
The Recipient shall, through its Central Bank: 
 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
World Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
World Bank; 
Page  9
8
2. 
furnish to the World Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after (i) the deposit of the First Tranche and (ii) the deposit of the Second 
Tranchre into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, a certified copy of the report of 
such audits, of such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request; 
and  
 
3. 
furnish to the World Bank such other information concerning both Deposit 
Accounts and their audits as the World Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Grant shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the World Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the World Bank, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the World Bank. Amounts refunded to 
the World Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 of the Standard 
Conditions is June 30, 2009. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Deposit Accounts” means means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account 
and the Local Currency Deposit Account. 
 
2. 
 “Djiboutian Franc” means the currency of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than IDA or IBRD has 
financed or agreed to finance, or which IDA or IBRD has financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the World Bank by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Page  11
10 
Group Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds, 
without the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such 
practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
“First Tranche” means the amount of the Grant allocated to the category entitled 
“First Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to 
this Agreement. 
Page  12
11 
5. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1 
(a) of Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1 (b) 
of Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
respond to the food crisis and set forth or referred to in the letter dated May 21, 
2008 from the Recipient to the World Bank declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
World Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
8. 
 “Second Tranche” means the amount of the Grant allocated to the category 
entitled “Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the 
World Bank Out of Various Funds”, dated July 20, 2006 with the modifications 
set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:   
1. 
Sections 2.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 2.07 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
3. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  13
12 
“Section 2.04. 
Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Grant are retained 
until two years after the Closing Date; and” 
 
4. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
…
(ii)  
ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank, 
not later than six months after the Closing Date, of one or more 
completion reports (“Completion Reports”) of such scope and in 
such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and 
the World Bank of their respective obligations under the Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Grant.” 
5. 
The last sentence of paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 (relating to Applications and 
Supporting Evidence) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Sections 3.05 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 3.06 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered 
accordingly 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Grant is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
Page  14
13 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program” means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in 
support of which the Grant is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these Standard Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
