Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5073 
Operation Name 
Djibouti -  Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant 
Region 
Middle East and North Africa 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P112017 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Djibouti 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Privatization  
Republic of Djibouti 
Tel: (253) 35 62 12    Fax: (253) 35 65 01 
Date PID Prepared 
May 4, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 19, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
May 29, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
Djibouti is in the midst of an ongoing food crisis.
 Djibouti is a small country characterized by 
pervasive poverty and high inequality. All food is imported and the global rise in food prices is having a 
disastrous effect on the welfare of the population, particularly the poorest. Prices for rice, the main food staple, 
have almost tripled since 2006. The very poor can now buy only about 60 percent of their daily minimum food 
requirements. The famine is visible, even in Djibouti City where the poverty incidence is lower than in the rural 
areas where the extreme poor live. Several hunger related deaths have been reported over the past months despite 
an expansion of food aid.  
2. 
Social stability is fragile and unrest in Djibouti could also lead to food shortages for neighboring 
Ethiopia.
 The Djibouti port is the sole route for imports to Ethiopia which, like Djibouti, is a net-importer of 
food. Social unrest in Djibouti, which could occur if there were no improvements (or a worsening) in the food 
situation, could lead to devastating consequences for Ethiopia if major land transportation routes were blocked.  
Ensuring food security in Djibouti needs to be therefore considered as a sub-regional priority as any lasting 
instability could produce negative spillovers in the form of heightened inflationary pressures to the detriment of 
the millions of poor people in neighboring countries. 
3. 
The government has been quick in responding but it needs help
.
Short-term interventions in Djibouti 
have included food distribution and the removal of all tariffs and taxes on basic food items, and these measures 
are straining the budget. Yet, even with the emergency programs, only about 67,000 beneficiaries currently 
receive food assistance. Donor assistance is limited in Djibouti. So far no donor has responded with additional 
financing to help the government to counter the crisis. The government has therefore turned to the World Bank for 
help.  
Country Context 
4. 
Djibouti is a small and poorly endowed country
 of 23,200 square kilometers, strategically located at 
the Horn of Africa at the southern end of the Red Sea. Djibouti has only limited natural resources, fertile land, 
rainfall, and underground water. The country's population is estimated at 830,000. Djibouti is essentially a city-
state with about two-thirds of the population living in the capital city. The hinterland, an extension of the deserts 
of Ethiopia and Somalia, is sparsely populated by poor pastoral and nomadic people. Djibouti’s resources derive 
mostly from revenues generated from the activities of the modern port, the rental of military bases, and services 
associated with both.  This is reflected in the large share of the service sector in the economy, which accounts for 
Page  2
77 percent of GDP. The scarcity of water is a major obstacle to the development of agriculture which only 
accounts for approximately 3 percent of GDP. Extremely high energy prices are depressing manufacturing 
activities.  
5. 
Despite a per capita income of US$1,024, Djibouti has some of the poorest social indicators in the 
world
.
Recent data
1
show that poverty in Djibouti is both extremely high and on the rise. In 2002, about three-
fourths of the population lived under the relative poverty line and 42 percent in extreme poverty, as compared to 
65 percent and 35 percent, respectively, in 1996. Surveys show that poverty incidence is highest in rural areas, but 
the majority (83 percent) of the poor live in Djibouti City. Recurrent droughts and high prices for food staples and 
electricity weigh heavily on the poor. The result is abysmal social indicators
2
,
among them a life expectancy at 
birth of only 54 years, a mortality rate for children (under 5 years of age) of 130 per 1000 live births, a 35 percent 
primary school completion rate, a 76 percent ratio of girls to boys in the primary and secondary education, and a 
high prevalence of HIV. 
6. 
Economic growth in recent years has been strong but the benefits have not been equally shared. 
Annual Economic growth averaged 4.1 percent between 2004 and 2007, and has accelerated in recent years. Yet, 
very few new jobs were created, less than the economy needs in order to absorb the many unemployed and to 
alleviate the pervasive poverty.  The unemployment rate has reached over 50 percent of the labor force. Growth 
has only benefited few for at least three reasons: (i) Investments, especially in the Free Zone, take place mainly in 
economic activities that produce only few jobs like warehousing or transit hubs.  The backward and forward 
linkages to the local economy are limited; (ii) the labor force is poorly skilled and has low productivity; and (iii) 
high energy costs weigh heavily on Djibouti’s competitiveness. Attracting a manufacturing industry is therefore 
very difficult, even in the Free Zone, which is governed by a generous incentive regime. 
 
Recent Economic Developments in Djibouti 
 
7. 
Djibouti is a dualistic economy, 
characterized by a segmented labor market. The small formal sector is 
dominated by a large public sector administration and a number of foreign-owned businesses, mostly operating in 
the free trade zone and several foreign military bases. The growing informal sector, small entrepreneurs and 
unskilled workers, is mainly involved in construction and trading activities. Agriculture and manufacturing 
represent only 3 and 16.9 percent of total GDP respectively. Local production remains limited, owing to the arid 
climate, high production costs, and the paucity of skilled workers. 
 
8. 
Economic performance has improved in recent years, 
driven by FDI. The share of investment to 
GDP grew from 19 percent in 2005 to 29.6 percent in 2006 and further to 38.3 percent in 2007. Foreign direct 
investments constitute a large part of total investments. 
 
9. 
New investments in port and free zones have failed to increase employment. 
FDI grew from US$22 
million in 2005 to US$176 million in 2007, the direct result of investments in the new port and airport facilities in 
Doraleh, largely financed by the United Arab Emirates, and investments in the new free trade zone. But these 
investments created only 1,000 new jobs, of which around 200 were for foreign workers. In response to the 
unemployment problem, the government created the national employment agency 
“l’Agence Nationale de 
l’Emploi, de la Formation et de l’Insertion Professionnelle”
 (ANEFIP). It is planned that the new agency will 
diffuse information on employment and qualification opportunities, provide vocational training, and implement 
more active labor market policies.  
 
The Food Crisis 
1
The knowledge base on poverty stems primarily from studies based on household surveys of 1996 and its 2002. Poverty 
information and the statistical system in general suffer from severe shortcomings, including the absence of a recent and 
reliable population census on which household surveys can be anchored. 
2
World Development Indicators, 2007. 
Page  3
10. 
The food crisis in Djibouti is severe.
 The country has always been prone to food shortages. All food is 
imported and the small agricultural sector has been weakened by the recurrent drought during the past several 
years. But prior to this crisis, droughts usually affected less than 15 percent of the population which resides in 
rural areas (140,000 out of total population 830,000) albeit in a very negative way. The malnutrition rate among 
adults in rural areas is over 25 percent. This is unusually high as 15 percent malnutrition among adults is 
considered as extremely food insecure. In contrast to the prior food crises, the poor population in Djibouti is this 
time affected in its entirety. 
11. 
Inflationary pressures are intensifying. 
As most food is imported and there are no subsidies or price 
controls, domestic consumers immediately feel the impact of changes in international prices.  The price of a small 
bag of low-quality rice, for instance, jumped from DJF 3,500 in 2006 to DJF 8,000 today. Consumer prices 
increased by 5 percent in 2007 and reached an annualized inflation rate of over 8 percent in the first months of 
2008 (9.7 percent in end-February 2008). The Djibouti franc is pegged to the U.S. dollar, which continued to 
depreciate against the Euro in 2007.  
12. 
Drought and global food price increase are not the only factors that threaten food security.
 The 
relatively small market size of Djibouti has important implications. First, physical stock availability is a problem. 
Due to extreme heat and humidity, it is not possible to stock large quantities at the port (stocks of rice or flour 
seldom exceed 100 metric tons). In addition, the domestic market organization is unfavorable. There are only 20-
30 traders serving the local market, controlling all of the supplies to the country. Since a single cargo ship of rice 
covers several months of Djibouti’s consumption, there are only few market operations which are highly 
specialized (there are no more than 2-3 operators per product). The oligopolistic market structure incites collusive 
behavior and traders are believed to be in tacit agreements. There are also local monopolies in the retail market. 
This causes higher price levels than in neighboring markets. Finally, supply from the region is limited since 
Ethiopia banned cereal exports last year. 
13. 
Poor households are disproportionately affected by inflation
 because the food share in the 
expenditure basket of poor households (65 percent) is higher than that of the average household (53 percent). 
Higher prices for basic services (electricity, transportation) are additionally burdening household budgets and 
poor families in Djibouti find themselves at the margin of survival. Poor urban households can currently buy only 
about 60 percent of their daily minimum food requirements. As a result, the already exceptionally high 
malnutrition levels are increasing. Mostly affected by the crisis are the children up to age 5, pregnant women, 
nomads who are unable to help their languishing cattle and are now flocking into Djibouti City to find work, and 
refugees who are fleeing from the conflicts in the neighboring countries. The famine is visible and has already led 
to a number of deaths.  
14. 
The upcoming summer season is likely to aggravate the situation further
.
The summer season 
normally sees higher rates of unemployment as there are fewer opportunities for casual labor and petty trade. In 
rural areas, the prolonged drought is threatening the lives of the extreme poor (about 80,000 people) who are 
engaged in pastoral farming. Conditions for livestock are deteriorating progressively. In urban areas about 
200,000 poor people or one-fourth of the population are estimated to be highly or extremely food-insecure. At a 
national level, the global acute malnutrition (GAM) rate stands at 16.8 percent. However, it is expected that rain 
levels will fall below normal and prolong the drought season this summer. USAID’s Famine Early Warning 
System has therefore currently placed Djibouti on a high to an extremely high level of alert from April to June.   
15. 
Djibouti’s budget deficit widened from 2.4 percent of GDP in 2006 to an expected 3.5 percent in 
2007. 
Overruns in expenditure on wages and goods and services, largely related to the recent parliamentary 
elections and employment of new public health and education personnel, have more than offset the strong revenue 
performance. The public wage bill accounts for 14.6 percent of GDP and roughly one-third of total government 
expenditures. This is much higher than in comparator countries such as Yemen, Ethiopia, Burkina Faso, and 
Mauritania, where wage bills amount to less than 7 percent of GDP, and is limiting the fiscal space to redistribute 
income to the poor
.
However,
 
health and education expenditures have increased in recent years, as a share of total 
Page  4
public expenditures, although to most part in form of increase in public employees. Public investment 
expenditures have also shown an increasing trend and stand at around 10 percent of GDP.  
16. 
The trade and current account deficits in 2007 were largely offset by a capital and financial 
account surplus.
 Djibouti experienced a sharp increase in merchandise imports over the last several years, largely 
the result of investment-related imports such as equipment and other capital goods. Djibouti imports almost 100 
percent of its consumer and capital goods. The trade deficit is structural and is worsening. However, services 
continue to show a strong surplus, at approximately 30 percent of GDP in 2007. Still, the current account widened 
to a deficit of 25.3 percent of GDP in 2007 (from 8.8 percent in 2006). However, the large capital and financial 
account surplus has more than offset the deficit in the current account, resulting in an increase in gross official 
reserves to US$130 million at end-2007. External reserves stand at an equivalent of 2.1 months of imports (up 
from 2.2.). In line with the increase in FDI and export of goods and services expected in the coming years, 
reserves are expected to increase more strongly in 2008. 
17. 
External debt remains high but appears manageable in spite of heightened risk of debt distress
.
This is reflected in the large net present value of total government debt relative to GDP (51.9 percent) and of total 
external debt relative to exports (125 percent) as of end-
2006.
Some 90 percent of Djibouti’s debt is concessional 
and long term. Current scenarios see debt to GDP ratio increasing to 54.2 percent in 2008, reflecting already 
identified loans for social and infrastructure projects. Measured as a share of GDP, debt service remains stable at 
3.4 percent in 2007.
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
18. 
The objective of the proposed Grant is to help the Government of Djibouti in reducing hunger, 
preventing an increase in poverty and social unrest, and ensuring the fiscal stability needed to foster medium-term 
social and economic development. The supported policy measures are a tax exemption on basic food items, 
expansion of food aid, social assistance and related programs. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
19. 
The proposed Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant of US$5 million, financed through the 
Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund, is a development policy operation intended to support the Government’s 
program to mitigate the impact of the food prices on the poor, while maintaining fiscal stability. Achieving these 
goals will reduce hunger, help avoid an increase in poverty, help prevent social unrest, and ensure the fiscal 
stability needed to foster social and economic development. The policy measures supported by this grant are: 
 
·
Reduction to zero of the domestic consumption taxes on five basic food items consumed by the poor 
(rice, sugar, cooking oil, wheat flour and powder milk). 
 
·
Developing an action plan to improve targeting of the poor and create more cost-effective, direct 
social protection mechanisms. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
20. 
The proposed operation will have limited negative direct environmental impact, essentially in relation 
with activities envisaged under the framework of the INDS in the area of fisheries development, sanitation and 
rehabilitation and drilling of water wells in the rural areas. The third pillar of the INDS mentions explicitly the 
focus of the program on environmental sustainability and protection of the natural environment through the 
development of appropriate sectoral strategies which should ensure a balanced development respectful of the 
natural resources. Alleviating the food crisis will tend to decrease unsustainable pressures on natural resources, as 
the proposed measures aiming at improving food security will prevent the most exposed population from 
depleting inappropriately natural resources and encroaching on environmentally sensitive ecosystems. The 
operation intends to support essentially the food security aspects of the INDS which, in some of its dimensions, 
aims at improving sustainable access to natural resources of fragile populations. It is understood that the 
Page  5
ministries responsible for implementing the different pillars of the INDS will reinforce their planning and 
execution capabilities. Also, the monitoring and evaluation unit (INDS secretariat) located within the Prime 
Minister's Office will exercise an overall oversight responsibility and will monitor the environmental performance 
of the government’s program. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: (5$m.) 
Borrower Republic 
of 
Djibouti 
Special Financing 
5 
Total 5 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Claudia Nassif 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-6636 
Fax: (202) 477 0432 
Email: 
cnassif@worldbank.org
7. 
More information contact: 
 
The Infoshop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20233 
Telephone: (202) 458 5454 
Fax: (202) 522 1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
