                                                  Documentof
                                                The World Bank


                                          FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY

                                                                                     ReportNo. 43790-DJ




                             FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSETRUST FUND


                          PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA PROPOSED GRANT


                     INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$5MILLION(SDR3.1 MILLION) TO


                                        THEREPUBLIC OFDJIBOUTI

                                                      FORA

                      FOODCRISIS RESPONSEDEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT




                                                  May 22,2008




Sector Department,MNSED
Country Department, MNC03
MENARegion

Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance o f their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      DJIBOUTI - GOVERNMENT            FISCALYEAR
                                 January 1-December31

                                CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective as ofMay 22, 2008)

                         Currency Unit=DE(Djibouti Francs)
                                   DJF 177.72= 1US$


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADDS     Agence Djiboutienne de Dtveloppement Social
ADETIP   Agence Djiboutienne d'Extcution de Travaux d'IntCr&tPublic
AFD      Agence Frangaise de Dtveloppement
AfDB     African Development Bank
ANEFI    Agence Nationale de l'Emploi, de la Formationet de 1'Insertion Professionnelle
B C D    Banque Centrale de Djibouti
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPI      Consumer Price Index
DJF      Djiboutian Franc
DISED    Direction de la Statistique et des Enqugtes Dtmographques
DPG      Development Policy Grant
DUPREP   DjiboutiUrbanPoverty ReductionProject
D T C    Domestic Consumption Tax
EDIM     Enqugte Djiboutienne a Indicateurs Multiples (Household Survey)
ERR      Economic Rate o f Return
FOB      Free on Board
FDI      ForeignDirect Investment
FSD      Fonds Social de Djibouti
GAM      Global Acute Malnutrition
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GEF      Global Environment Fund
GFRP     Global Food Crisis Response Program
GNFS     Goods and Non-Factor Services
GNP      Gross National Product
HIPC     Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICT      Information and CommunicationTechnology
IDA      International Development Association
IDG      International Development Goals
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INDS     Initiative Nationale de Dtveloppement Social
IsDB     Islamic Development Bank
JSAN     Joint Staff Assessment Note
LDP      Letter o f Development Policy
MDGs     MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MENA     Middle East and NorthAfrica
MOE      Ministryo fEducation
MOF      Ministryo fFinance

MOH      MinistryofHealth
MSP      Medium-Size Project
MTEF     Medium-Tern ExpenditureFramework
NGO      N o n Governmental Organization
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PFMS     Public FinancialManagement System
PHRD     Japan Policy and HumanResources DevelopmentTrust Fund
PRGF     Poverty Reductionand GrowthFacility
PRSP     Poverty ReductionSupport Program
ROSC     Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes
SDR      Special DrawingRights
SSA      Sub-Saharan Africa
UNDP     UnitedNations Development Programme
UNICEF   UnitedNations Children's Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
USD      United State Dollar
VAT      Value Added Tax
WFP      World FoodProgram




                            Vice President:        Daniela Gressani
                          Country Director:        EmmanuelMbi
                            Sector Director:       Ritva Reinikka
                            Sector Manager:        Miria Pigato
                         Task Team Leader:         Claudia Nassif




                                              ..
                                              11


                                            REPUBLICOF DJIBOUTI

             FOODCRISISRESPONSEDEVELOPMENTPOLICY GRANT



                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

I INTRODUCTION................................................................................................................................
 .                                                                                                                                             1
I1.  COUNTRYCONTEXT.......................................................................................................................     1
   RecentEconomicDevelopmentsinDjibouti..............................................................................                          2
   MediumTerm Outlook ............................................................................................................... 5
I11. THEGOVERNMENT'SPROGRAMANDPARTICIPATORYPROCESSES.................................                                                          6
   Government's responseto food crisis.........................................................................................                8
IV . BANK SUPPORTTOTHEGOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM.............................................................                                         8
   Linkageto the CAS..................................................................................................................... 8
   Collaborationwith IMF andother donors ..................................................................................                    9
   Relationsto other Bank Operations..........................................................................................                10
   Povertyand SocialImpact........................................................................................................ 15
   EnvironmentalAspects .............................................................................................................         15
   Implementation, MonitoringandEvaluation............................................................................                        16
   Risks and Risk Mitigation.........................................................................................................         18
   ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY ............................................................                                           19
   ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX................................................................................................                     27
   ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONS NOTE..................................................................................                              29
   ANNEX 4: THE INITIATIVEFOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (INDS) .............................                                                         31
   ANNEX 5: BUDGET LAW.....................................................................................................                   34
   ANNEX 6: EXPANDING SOCIAL ASSISTANCEPROGRAMS ........................................                                                      35
   ANNEX 7: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS........................................................                                            37
   ANNEX 8: RELEVANT DONOR OPERATIONSINDJIBOUTI.........................................                                                      38
   ANNEX 9: COUNTRY AT GLANCE.....................................................................................                            39
   ADDITIONAL ANNEX: UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION OF LETTER OFDELOPMENT
   POLICY.................................................................................................................................... 41




                                                                    ...
                                                                    111


                                REPUBLIC OFDJIBOUTI

     PROPOSEDFOOD CRISIS RESPONSEDEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT
                   MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Region-MNSED

                         GRANT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY


Borrower:    RepublicofDjibouti

Amount:       $5 million (SDR 3.1 million)

Terms:        TF Grant

Description:  The proposedFood Crisis Response Development Policy Grant o f US$5
              million, subject to approval o f the FoodPrice Crisis Response Trust Fund,i s a
              developmentpolicy operation intended to support the Government's program
              to mitigate the impact o f the foodprices on the poor, while maintaining fiscal
              stability. Achieving these goals will reduce hunger, helpavoid an increase in
              poverty, help prevent social unrest, and ensure the fiscal stability neededto
              foster social and economic development. The policy measures supported by
              this grant are:
                  Reduction to zero o f the domestic consumption taxes on five basic food
                  items consumed by the poor (rice, sugar, cooking oil, wheat flour and
                  powder milk).
                  Expansion o f food aid and existing social assistanceprograms (e.g. school
                  feeding, mother-child programs andworkfare programs).

              0   Ramping up programs which help to improve food security and access to
                  water o f the drought-affected population.
              0   Developing an action planto improve targeting o f the poor and create
                  more cost-effective, direct social protection mechanisms.

Benefits:     There are several benefits resultingfrom the government program: First, the
              elimination o f the tax will reduce the cost share o f five basic items which
              comprise 40 - 50 percent o f total food expenditures of the poor. Second, food
              aid will help to immediately meet the caloric requirements o f the poor and
              vulnerable households. Third, the scaling up o f programs will increase food
              supply and improve access to water for the most vulnerable population.
              Fourth, the grant will support the government to develop an action plan to
              improve targeting o f the poor. This will in medium-term improve the
              effectiveness o f social assistanceto the poor.




                                                iv

Risks         There are a number o f risks associated with the proposed Grant. Djibouti
              remains vulnerable to commodity price changes and droughts. A further rise in
              the prices o f food and energy could underminethe impact of the Government's
              program on the poor and may require additional measures to sustain the fiscal
              balance and macroeconomic stability. However, the Government i s currently
              negotiating a PRGF facility with the IMF and i s preparing a number o f measures
              to maintain fiscal stability and debt sustainability even under stronger exogenous
               shocks. There are also moderate institutional weaknesses which could result in
               delays in the implementation of the Government's program. In addition,
               fiduciary risks are significant. These risks are currently being tackled by the
               Government, incollaboration with the Bank, mainly through technical assistance
              whichaddressesbudgetmanagement, procurement andtransparency issues.


Disbursements: The proposedgrant will be disbursed intwo tranches uponprior actions.

Poverty
Category:      The proposed grant creates space for financing food aid and social assistance
              programs.


ProjectIDNo.  P112017




                                                V

I. INTRODUCTION

1.         Djibouti i s in the midst o f an ongoing food crisis. Djibouti i s a small country characterized by
pervasive poverty and highinequality. All food i s imported and the global rise in food prices i s having a
disastrous effect on the welfare o f the population, particularly the poorest. Pnces for rice, the main food
staple, have almost tripled since 2006. The very poor can now buy only about 60 percent o f their daily
minimumfood requirements. The famine is visible, even inDjibouti City where the poverty incidence is
lower than in the rural areas where the extreme poor live. Several hunger related deaths have been
reported over the past months despite an expansion o f food aid.

2.         Social stability i s fragde and unrest inDjibouti could also lead to food shortages for neighboring
Ethiopia. The Djibouti port i s the sole route for imports to Ethiopia which, like Djibouti, i s a net-importer
o f food. Social unrest inDjibouti, which could occur if there were no improvements (or a worsening) in
the food situation, could lead to devastating consequences for Ethiopia ifmajor land transportation routes
were blocked. Ensuring food security in Djibouti needs to be therefore considered as a sub-regional
priority as any lasting instability couldproduce negative spillovers inthe form o f heightenedinflationary
pressures to the detriment of the millions o fpoor people inneighboring countries.

3.         The government has been quick in responding but it needs help. Short-term interventions in
Djibouti have included food distribution and the removal o f all tariffs and taxes on basic food items, and
these measures are straining the budget. Yet, even with the emergency programs, only about 67,000
beneficiaries currently receive food assistance. Donor assistance i s limited in Djibouti. So far no donor
has responded with additional financing to help the government to counter the crisis. The government has
therefore turned to the World Bank for help.

11.      COUNTRYCONTEXT

4.         Djiboutiis a small and poorly endowed country of 23,200 square lulometers, strategically
located at the Horn o f Africa at the southern end o f the Red Sea. Djibouti has only limited natural
resources, fertile land, rainfall, and underground water. The country's population i s estimated at 830,000.
Djibouti i s essentially a city-state with about two-thirds o f the population living in the capital city. The
hinterland, an extension o f the deserts of Ethiopia and Somalia, i s sparsely populatedby poor pastoral and
nomadic people. Djibouti's resources derive mostly from revenues generated from the activities o f the
modern port, the rental o f military bases, and services associated with both. This i s reflected inthe large
share o f the service sector in the economy, which accounts for 77 percent of GDP. The scarcity o f water
i s a major obstacle to the development o f agriculture which only accounts for approximately 3 percent o f
GDP. Extremely highenergy prices are depressingmanufacturing activities.

5.         Despitea per ca itaincomeof US$1,024,Djiboutihas some ofthe poorest social indicators
inthe world. Recent data show that poverty inDjibouti is both extremely highand on the rise. In2002,
                              P
about three-fourths o f the population lived under the relative poverty line and 42 percent in extreme
poverty, as compared to 65 percent and 35 percent, respectively, in 1996. Surveys show that poverty
incidence is highest in rural areas, but the majority (83 percent) o f the poor live in Djibouti City.
Recurrent droughts and highprices for food staples and electricity weigh heavily on the poor. The result
i s abysmal social indicators', among them a life expectancy at birth o f only 54 years, a mortality rate for


1 The knowledge base on poverty stems primarily from studies based on household surveys of 1996 and its 2002.
Poverty information and the statistical systemin general suffer from severe shortcomings, including the absence of a
recent and reliable population census on which household surveys can be anchored.
  World Development Indicators, 2007.

children (under 5 years o f age) o f 130 per 1000live births, a 35 percentprimary school completion rate, a
76 percent ratio of girls to boys inthe primary and secondary education, and a highprevalence o f HIV.

6.        Economic growth in recent years has been strong but the benefits have not been equally
shared. Annual Economic growth averaged 4.1 percent between 2004 and 2007, and has accelerated in
recent years. Yet, very few new jobs were created, less than the economy needs in order to absorb the
many unemployed and to alleviate the pervasive poverty. The unemployment rate has reached over 50
percent o f the labor force. Growth has only benefited few for at least three reasons: (i)    Investments,
especially in the Free Zone, take place mainly in economic activities that produce only few jobs like
warehousing or transit hubs. The backward and forward linkages to the local economy are limited; (ii)
the labor force is poorly skilled and has low productivity; and (iii) energy costs weigh heavily on
                                                                        high
Djibouti's competitiveness. Attracting a manufacturing industry is therefore very difficult, even in the
Free Zone, whichi s governed by a generous incentive regime.

Recent Economic DevelopmentsinDjibouti
7.         Djibouti is a dualistic economy, characterized by a segmented labor market. The small formal
sector i s dominated by a large public sector administration and a number o f foreign-owned businesses,
mostly operating in the free trade zone and several foreign military bases. The growing informal sector,
small entrepreneurs and unskdled workers, i s mainly involved in construction and trading activities.
Agriculture and manufacturing represent only 3 and 16.9 percent of total GDP respectively. Local
production remains limited, owing to the arid climate, highproduction costs, and the paucity o f slulled
workers.
8.         Economic performance has improved in recent years, driven by FDI. The share of
investment to GDP grew from 19 percent in 2005 to 29.6 percent in 2006 and further to 38.3 percent in
2007. Foreign direct investment, constitutes a large part of total investments.

       Figure 1: Sources of Growth (in %)                     Figure 2: Sectoral GDP Growth (in %)




                                                    30




                                                    220




                                                    f Q




                                                    u
        mBfa1    X Q Z  zcmx.3  2004    ZWQ  ma&              zooll   ZQDZ  MU7    aoPl  MOP;   XI06

 Source: InternationalMonetary Fund, 2007.

9.         New investments inport and free zones have failed to increase employment. FDIgrew from
US$22 million in 2005 to US$176 million in 2007, the direct result of investments in the new port and
airport facilities in Doraleh, largely financed by the United Arab Emirates, and investments in the new
free trade zone. But these investments created only 1,000 newjobs, o f which around 200 were for foreign
workers. In response to the unemployment problem, the government created the national employment
agency "I'AgenceNationale de 1'Emploi,de la Formation et de 1'Insertion Professionnelle" (ANEFIP). It




                                                       2

i s planned that the new agency will diffuse information on employment and qualification opportunities,
provide vocational training, and implement more active labor market policies.



The Free Zones has a long history in ~Jiboutl.Unril May 2004, the FreeZonc regime was complex, cmnprising imny drt'ferenr
instl~urionalarrangements and adntintstrative procedtires, oAer1inconsistent with each other. This preventedthe Free Zone from
fiilly playingthe role assignedto it It almost exclusively servedas an in-bond warehouse for ~ ~ i b o u ~andnforeign compnies
                                                                                                            j a
and merchantssupplyingneighboringcountries.

In May 2004, a new law was issuedto governthe Frcc Zone. The rncentisesprovidedunder this law include thc exemption from
cu~toinrules and formalitiesfor imports and exportsas well as from taxes, surcharges, and other direct and indirecttaxes. Other
incentives comprise the ficcdorn to tmnsfes capital abroad, the provisionof quality infrastructure services, and a one-stop shop
that simplifiesinstallationprocedures.

The inpact ofthesc mcasures has been, however, mixed. Propelledbythe construction ofthe new port Picilittes in Domleh, they
were certainly successful in attracting moreforeign direct investment. Morethan 40 foretgn companies have set tip shop already
(out of ~pproxim~tely  70) But the new incentivcrcgime IS atso attractive for local companies, which are increastnglyobtaining
licenses to operate in the Free Zone, 'I'his has direct implicationsfor the national budget: the authontresesrimate that ifthe 100
biggest companies gradually $hi&cven 25-50 percent of their activities to the Free Zone, the government could lose revenuesup
to IJS$X.# mitlion annually by 2010 (about 2.2 percent of total estimated revenues in 2010}, which could, in the absence of
additional revenuesswainthe budget aiid limit the country's ability to increase social expenditures



10.         The food crisis in Djibouti i s severe. The country has always beenprone to food shortages. All
food i s imported and the small agncultural sector has been weakened by the recurrent drought during the
past several years. But prior to this crisis, droughts usually affected less than 15 percent of the population
which resides inrural areas (140,000 out of total population 830,000) albeit in a very negative way. The
malnutrition rate among adults in rural areas i s over 25 percent. This i s unusually high as 15 percent
malnutrition among adults i s considered as extremely food insecure. Incontrast to the prior food crises,
the poor population inDjibouti i s this time affected inits entirety.

11.         Inflationary pressures are intensifying. As most food i s imported and there are no subsidies or
price controls, domestic consumers immediately feel the impact o f changes in international prices. The
price o f a small bag o f low-qualityrice, for instance, jumped from DJF 3,500 in2006 to DE 8,000 today.
Consumer prices increased by 5 percent in2007 andreached an annualized inflationrate o f over 8 percent
inthe first months of 2008 (9.7 percent inend-February 2008). The Djibouti franc is pegged to the U.S.
dollar, which continuedto depreciate against the Euro in2007.

12.         Drought and global food price increase are not the only factors that threaten food security.
The relatively small market size of Djibouti has important implications. First, physical stock availability
i s a problem. Due to extreme heat and humidity, it i s not possible to stock large quantities at the port
(stocks o f rice or flour seldom exceed 100 metric tons). Inaddition, the domestic market organization is
unfavorable. There are only 20-30 traders serving the local market, controlling all o f the supplies to the
country. Since a single cargo ship o f rice covers several months o f Djibouti's consumption, there are only
few market operations which are highly specialized (there are no more than 2-3 operators per product).
The oligopolistic market structure incites collusive behavior and traders are believed to be in tacit
agreements. There are also local monopolies in the retail market. This causes higher price levels than in
neighboring markets. Finally, supply from the region i s limited since Ethiopia banned cereal exports last
year.

13.         Poor households are disproportionately affected by inflation because the food share in the
expenditure basket o f poor households (65 percent) i s higher than that o f the average household (53
percent). Higher prices for basic services (electricity, transportation) are additionally burdeninghousehold


                                                                  3

budgets and poor families in Djibouti find themselves at the margin o f survival. Poor urban households
can currently buy only about 60 percent o f their daily minimum food requirements. As a result, the
already exceptionally high malnutrition levels are increasing. Mostly affected by the crisis are the
children up to age 5, pregnant women, nomads who are unable to help their languishing cattle and are
now flochng into Djibouti City to find work, and refugees who are fleeing from the conflicts in the
neighboring countries. The famine i s visible and has already ledto a number o f deaths.

14.         The upcoming summer season is likely to aggravate the situation further. The summer
season normally sees higher rates o f unemployment as there are fewer opportunities for casual labor and
petty trade. In rural areas, the prolonged drought i s threatening the lives o f the extreme poor (about
80,000 people) who are engaged in pastoral farming. Conditions for livestock are deteriorating
progressively. Inurban areas about 200,000 poor people or one-forth o f the population are estimated to be
highly or extremely food-insecure. At a national level, the global acute malnutrition (GAM) rate stands at
16.8 percent. However, it i s expected that rain levels will fall below normal and prolong the drought
seasonthis summer.USAID's Famine Early Warning Systemhas therefore currently placedDjibouti on a
highto anextremely highlevelof alert fromApril to June.

      Figure 3: Cost of expenditure basket for poor      Figure 4: Drought Alert Status by Zone for 242008
                    households (`000 DJF)




                                                  I"




       -Total     basket cost  -Emergency  level
       ----Warning  level

    Source: FEWS,May 2008



15.         Djibouti's budget deficit widened from 2.4 percent of GDP in 2006 to an expected 3.5
percentin 2007. Overruns in expenditure on wages and goods and services, largely related to the recent
parliamentary elections and employment o f new public health and education personnel, have more than
offset the strong revenue performance. The public wage bill accounts for 14.6 percent of GDP and
roughly one-third o f total government expenditures. This i s much higher than in comparator countries
such as Yemen, Ethiopia, Burluna Faso, and Mauritania, where wage bills amount to less than 7 percent
o f GDP, and i s limitingthe fiscal space to redistribute income to the poor. However, health and education
expenditures have increased inrecent years, as a share o f total public expenditures, although to most part
in form of increase inpublic employees. Public investment expenditures have also shown an increasing
trendand stand at around 10percent of GDP.

16.         The trade and current account deficits in 2007 were largely offset by a capital and
financial account surplus. Djibouti experienced a sharp increase in merchandise imports over the last
several years, largely the result o f investment-relatedimports such as equipment and other capital goods.
Djibouti imports almost 100 percent o f its consumer and capital goods. The trade deficit is structural and
i s worsening. However, services continue to show a strong surplus, at approximately 30 percent o f GDP
in2007. Still, the current account widened to a deficit of 25.3 percent of GDP in2007 (from 8.8 percent
in2006). However, the large capital and financial account surplus has more than offset the deficit inthe



                                                      4

current account, resulting in an increase in gross official reserves to US$130 million at end-2007.
External reserves stand at an equivalent o f 2.1 months o f imports (up from 2.2.). Inline with the increase
inFDIand export of goods and services expected inthe coming years, reserves are expected to increase
more strongly in2008.

17.       External debt remains high but appears manageable in spite of heightened risk of debt
distress.This i s reflected in the large net present value of total government debt relative to GDP (5 1.9
percent) and of total external debt relative to exports (125 percent) as o f end-2006. Some 90 percent o f
Djibouti's debt i s concessional and long term. Current scenarios see debt to GDP ratio increasing to 54.2
percent in 2008, reflecting already identified loans for social and infrastructure projects. Measured as a
share o f GDP, debt service remains stable at 3.4 percent in2007.

18.       Negotiations for an IMF supported Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) are
under way. The Government requested a PRGF facility, to support the reform program and to boost the
confidence of investors and donors for the ongoing reforms and economic developments. The focus o f the
program will be to: (i)      improve the overall fiscal position; (ii)increase the share o f social and
infrastructure projects in total spending; and (iii)improve competitiveness. The program would provide
Djibouti with access to SDR 10.335 million (US6.5 million; disbursed over three years). Other
commitments are the introduction o f the VAT, reducing the current expenditures (including wage bill) in
terms o f GDP and limiting the losses o f state-owned companies, especially utilities. Negotiations o f the
PRGFare expectedto be concluded inJune.

MediumTermOutlook

19.       Despite the recent food price increases, economic growth prospectsremain positive. Table
1presents the recent economic developments andbaseline projections of the Government, updatedduring
the last IMF staff visit inMarch 2008. These forecasts do not include the full impact o f the rise inoil and
food prices as they are based on information up to end 2007. The government i s currently updating the
medium-term framework which will be discussed with the IMFand the Bank duringthe upcoming PRGF
negotiation mission inJune. On the basis o f available information, GDP growth i s expected to accelerate,
reaching 6.6 percent in 2008. Inflation will continue to rise as international food prices remain high.
Risinginvestments are likely to result insharper increases inimports, while exports shouldremain stable.
More service exports may keep the service accounts in surplus, but deficits in income and current
transfers will likely cause the current account deficit to grow.
20.       The food crisis is expected to have inflationary and budgetary implications. In preparing
this operation, the appraisal teamhas discussedwiththe Governmentthe likelymacroeconomic impact of
the crisis over thenext fiscal year. The teami s satisfiedwith the macroeconomicpolicy framework ofthe
Government and concurs with the following preliminary impact assessment o f the Government's
         ..
programs to counter the food crisis:

             Inflation i s expected to be higher than projected intable 1 and to reach 7.8 percent in 2008
             on average.
             Onthe fiscalrevenueside, the government will lose about US$3.8 to 4 million or 0.7 percent
             inGDP inFY08 owing to the direct impact of the tax exemption on basic food items. The
             increase in expenditures associated with expanding food assistance and ramping up social
             assistance i s about US$3 million. This will increase the fiscal deficit from the projected 2.6
             to 3.3 percent inGDP in2008.

21.       In the medium-term, the biggest challenge for the government will be to ensure fiscal
stability and broad-based, employment-generating growth. Growth will continue to be driven by
investments ineconomic activities that are not particularly labor intensive. However, this will not provide


                                                       5

sufficient employment for the country's low-skilled poor. It will therefore be critical to address policies
related to the country's competitiveness, skewed income distribution, and access to basic services for the
poor.

22.        Fiscal reforms and strengthened competitiveness associatedwith the measuresincludedin
the PRGF, and the good prospects for FDI, could result in a substantialimprovement of debt and
fiscal sustainability inthe medium term. However, debt and fiscal sustainability remain vulnerable to
external and domestic shocks. On the external front, persistently high international oil and food prices
would create continuous inflationary pressures. Policy slippages and lower foreign direct investment
could severely affect debt sustainability and threaten fiscal sustainability. Much will depend on the
Government's commitment to increase external competitiveness, improve the business environment, and
strengthen the fiscal position.
                                        Table 1:Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                                                                     Proj.     Est.  Est.
                                       2002   2003      2004       2005       2006       2007        2008     2009   2010
Real sector
   Real GDP (annual change in %)          2.6     3.2      3.0        3.2       4.8           5.2       6.6      7.6    7.3
   Real GDP per capita (annual            0.3     1.2       1.9        1.4      2.3           2.6        4       5.0   4.7
   percentage change)
Money and prices
   CPI inflation (annual average)         0.6     2.0      3.1        3.1       3.6           5.0       7.0      4.5    3.6
Investment & saving
   Total Investment (% o f GDP)         10.0    14.4      21.5       19.0      29.3          38.3     37.7      36.9  32.0
   Gross Domestic Savings (% o f          4.9     5.3      3.1       20.3      15.1          13.0      17.9     20.7   19.6
   GDP)
Government finance
   Revenue & grants ("41of GDP)         29.5    34.3      35.6       37.1      35.0          35.9     34.2      34.2  34.1
    olw: tax revenue                    20.1    20.7      20.0       20.0      20.4          20.7       20      20.5  20.6
   Total expenditure and net lending    33.1    36.6      37.5       36.8      37.4          39.4     36.8      36.6  35.1
   (% of GDP)
    Current                             28.7    29.9      29.8       27.5      29.9          30.0     27.2      26.2  26.2
    Capital & NL                          4.5     6.7      7.7         9.3      7.5           9.4       9.6     10.3    8.9
   Overall balance (deficit(-),          -3.7    -2.3     -1.9         0.2     -2.4          -3.5      -2.6     -2.4   -1.0
   commitment basis) (% o f GDP)
External sector
   Current account ( Inmillions o f $)  32.8    22.0      -8.0         9.0   -109.0       -213.0      -188      -173  -149
   Exports FOB                          35.6    37.0      38.0       40.0      50.0          75.0       77      -762  -802
   Imports FOB                          197.1  238.0     261.0      277.0     346.0         497.0      512       487   550
   Gross reserves (months o f imports     3.5     3.9       3.3        2.2      2.2           2.3       2.7      218   268
   GNFS)
   Current account balance (% o f         5.5     3.5     -1.2         1.1     -8.8         -25.3     -19.8    -16.2  -12.5
   GDP)
Total ExternalDebt
   Debt to GDP Ratio (%)
                      \   I             56.7    63.7      64.3       60.5      53.1          51.9     54.2      57.9   58.6
Source: IMF, World Bank and Government data. Table does not yet reflect the impact o f the increase infood prices.

111.      THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAMAND PARTICIPATORYPROCESSES

23.        The key development challenge faced by the Government is to find ways to make growth
more equitable and publicspendingpro-poor.The limitedemployment andpoverty impact ofthe new
investments inthe free trade zone has increased the sense o f inequality among the population. Access to
good basic services (water, sanitation, electricity) is limited. The public administration i s weak and lacks
the capacity to effectively provide necessary services to the poor.

24.        Reforms are expected to accelerate. The new and more flexible labor code, introduced in
2005, has been enacted. Preparations for the introduction o f a value-added tax in 2009 are well under



                                                          6

way. Drafting o f a new Code of Commerce i s inits final stages and is expected to be sent to the National
Assembly during 2008. The audited financial statements o f key public enterprises were posted on the
website o f the Ministry o f Finance, thus increasing fiscal transparency. Finally, the implementation o f a
single registry o f civil servants at the Ministry o f Employment and Civil Service and the Ministry of
Finance, which was completed inJanuary 2008, provides an important tool for the completion o f the civil
service reformundertakenby the Government.

25.       Aware of the social risks fostered by unequal economic development, the Government
created the National Initiative for Social Development (INDS).         In2007 the government launchedthe
INDS, a second generation PRSP, which aims at improving access to basic social services, generating
employment and assisting the most vulnerable groups through provision o f clean water, urban upgrading
o f disadvantaged neighborhoods, construction and improvements o f housing, expansion o f the road
network, provision o f facilities (school, health centers), access to micro-credit and micro-project training
(agriculture, craftsmanship, services, small trade activities), and public financial contribution to the
development projects supported by international donors. The Initiative denotes the clear intention o f the
Government to put inplace more inclusive social policies and i s the major vehicle for reformprocesses.

26.       The I N D S includes a comprehensive set o f actions resting on four mainpillars.

             The first pillar seeks to strengthen the country's competitiveness and to create
             conditions conducive to a strong and sustainable economic growth through (i)            the pursuit
             o f fiscal prudence and overall macroeconomic stability; (ii) implementation of structural
                                                                            the
             reforms to attract private investment, including the revision o f the legal and judicial
             framework; (iii)  the promotion of Djibouti as a competitive economic and financial hub; (iv)
             the reduction inthe costs o fproduction factors through improved efficiency of investments in
             the infrastructure sectors (water, power, transports); and (v) a diversification o f the sources o f
             growth.

         0   The second pillar aims to accelerate the development of human resources through
             improving access to basic public services. Inparticular, it aims at: (i) improvingthe coverage
             and quality o f health care and education; (ii)reducing unemployment through the
             development o f high-labor intensive activities, self-employment programs, micro-finance and
             job training; (iii)setting up social safety nets and providing emergency assistanceto the most
             vulnerable segments o f the population; and (iv) implementing the national gender strategy.

             The third pillar focuses on local development, preservation of the natural environment
             and social assistance to the vulnerable groups. This will be achieved through micro
             finance, active labor market policy, social assistance to the poor, and investments on water
             and sanitation services inpoor neighborhoods locatedinrural andurban areas o f the country.

         0   The fourth pillar seeks to improve governance and public sector management. The
             priority will be to strengthen the transparency and accountability o f public expenditure
             management to improve its distributional impact on the poor and its efficiency, as well as to
             improve the participation o f the private sector and the civil society in planning and
             implementation processes.

27.       The government encourages the participation o f the civil society in policy planning and
implementation processes. The I N D S was prepared in close consultation with the civil society and the
poor. Several programs within the INDS are being implemented by local NGOs. The government is
workmg on becoming more transparent, e.g. through informing the public on the INDS progress, or
through publishing data, monitoring and audit reports, as well as other government information in print
and online media.




                                                       7

Government's response to food crisis

28.       The Government is responding to the food crisis by strengthening the food security aspects of
the social protection andpoverty reductionprograms, through the following measures:

         0   Reduction of the consumption tax rate3 from 8 percent to 0 on five basic food items
             predominantly consumed by the poor: rice, sugar, cookrng oil, wheat flour and powder milk.
             This has helped to stabilize the market prize for these foodstuffs and kept the price inflation
             in check but will result in a revenue loss in the order of US$ 4.0 million annually.
             Maintaining the tax exemption on food items beyond fiscal year 2008/09 will be contingent
             on budgetary support or sufficient increase inother revenues.

             Expansion o f the food aidprograms, administeredby the World FoodProgramincooperation
             with UNICEF and localNGOs.

         0   Ramping up o f social assistance and community based infrastructure programs for the most
             vulnerable population. The INDS includes two programs which the government is
             considering to scale up: (i.)fisheries support program to increase food supply and augment
                                          a
             immediate fish output; and (ii.) small scale water operations that can be activated to
                                                 a
             mitigate the impact o f drought on the most vulnerable population inrural areas, nomads and
             their live-stock.

29.        There are only a few social assistance programs in place which cover a minority o f the poor.
Aside from a micro-finance program which targets almost exclusively women, there i s no social
protection mechanism inDjibouti. The WFP provides emergency food assistance for 55,000 to the rural
poor and to 12,000 children, mainly targeted through school feeding (in cooperation with UNICEF),
"food for work" or "food for training" programs. Part of the food aid goes to refugees (about 8,000).
However, the WFP only operates inrural areas where the extreme poor live, while Djibouti City, where
the majority o f the poor live (83 percent o f total), is under-served. Due to the prolonged and severe
drought conditions, the WFP increased emergency relief to more recipients in rural regions and shifted
away from the food for work projects. Giventhe current trends, the total number o f food aid recipients i s
likely to increase to 82,000. The cost o fproviding emergency aidto 55,000 people i s approximatelyUS$l
million per month. The WFP program i s the only functioning targeting mechanism in place through
which emergency assistance to the poor can be provided. The absence o f an adequate targeting
mechanism, especially in the urban neighborhoods, poses a considerable problem for the design o f
interventions (e.g. cash transfers). Identifyingthe poor i s also very difficult because most citizens are not
registeredand thus, have no IDcards.

rv.      BANKSUPPORTTOTHE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM

Linkage to the CAS

30.        The 2005-2008 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was aligned to the 2002 PRSP, and was
focused on: (i)  improving competitiveness, growth and income distribution, through a mix o f analytical
work and investment operations in energy (power project), as well as the development and rehabilitation
o f the transport infrastructure in support o f the Port o f Djibouti as the engine o f economic growth and
employment (IDA partial risk guarantee for the Djibouti-Ethiopia Railway); (ii)developing human
resources through support for an accelerated school access, employment generationthrough public works,
and support to poor victims o f the flood; and (iii)  promoting good governance by supporting financial



  TaxeIntirieure de Consommation, TIC


                                                      8

management and public procurement. The CAS did not include this operation because the recent price
increases andtheir impact on the poor were not anticipated.

31.       The new CAS (2009-11) i s under preparation, and consultations with the Government and
stakeholders are at an advanced stage. The CAS is expected to support the objectives o f the INDS,
including strengthening the social safety net. Possibilities to address food security monitoring and
establish an early warning system within the on-going IDF grant for the establishment o f a national M&E
system are currently being explored. Funds will be provided from the regional allocation to ensure close
supervision o f the execution o f this grant. The country team i s planning to step up the dialogue with the
authorities on areform o f the social protection system.

Collaborationwith IMF and other donors

32.       The Government o f Djibouti cooperates closely with the IMF within the framework of regular
Article IV consultations. Overall, the IMF i s satisfied with the medium-term framework and the
sustainability o f the macroeconomic policy stance (annex 3). The IMF also provides technical assistance
to the Central Bank and the Ministry o f Finance, e.g. for the introduction o f the VAT.

33.       The Bank's country team works closely with the IMF team and maintains excellent working
relations. Missions o f Bank staff are coordinated to overlap with Fund missions in order to ensure an
effective information flow and allow for concerted action. As part o f the Article IV consultation, the IMF
and the World Bank country teams jointly perform debt sustainability analyses. The last one was
concluded in January 2007. A new debt sustainability analysis i s presently under preparation and will
reflect the impact o f the recent food crisis on the fiscal budget and overall economy. Within the
framework o f the PRGF, the World Bank provides input to the formulation o f structural performance
criteria and benchmarks, especially in the areas o f energy, public administration reform and PRSP/INDS
process. Following a request o f the Djiboutian authorities, the Bank will undertake a joint FSAP mission
in2008.

34.       There i s not much donor involvement in Djibouti. The largest donor i s the European
Commission followed by the A h c a n Development Bank and the Arab Bank for Development.
Cooperation i s focused on water and energy infrastructure, health and education. UNICEF, WFP, UNDP
andUSAID finance projects relatedto food security and social protection o f the poor (annex 8). However,
the funding for these projects i s fairly small.

35.       The Bank team also interacts frequently with donors which are active in Djibouti. In fact,
country based donors such as the European Commission or UNDP are an important source o f information
and are as such frequently consulted, since the World Bank does not have a country office inDjibouti. All
new Bank activities are discussed extensively with other donors during the preparation phase. Close
collaboration i s taking place within the framework o f the Djibouti Urban Poverty Reduction Project
(DUPREP) which is part of a larger program supported by the AfDB and the IsDB.The World Bank is
planning to organize a donor meeting in October 2008 inorder to discuss how to coordinate best actions
and support the PRSP/INDS process.

36.       The government o f Djibouti also declared its intention to scale up existing food aid programs
administered by the World Food Program (WFP) and UNlCEF in response to the food crisis.
Consultations with the WFP and UNICEFon food assistance were held during the World Bank appraisal
mission for the proposed grant inMay 2008.




                                                      9

Relationsto other BankOperations

37.       The most recent project approvedby the Bank (April 2008) inthe area o f poverty reduction i s a
US$3 millionUrban Poverty Reduction Project, which aims at increasing access o f the (poor) population
in urban areas to basic public services (infrastructure and sanitation). There is also a community
development and micro-finance component inthis project. However, the food price crisis has aggravated
poverty in both the rural and urban areas and requires immediate assistance beyond public services to
mitigate its negative impact. Also, implementation o f the project still requires time and i s unlikely to
show impact inthe short-term.
38.       There are four IDF projects which address aspects regarding the implementation o f policies and
projects. A recently approved IDF will help the government to establish a national monitoring and
evaluation system to track I N D S project implementation. The second IDFprovides technical assistance to
the Ministry of Finance to enhance the budget management system and upgrade the internal audit. The
third IDF grant has helped the authorities to revise the Code for Public Procurement and provided
technical assistance to strengthen the procurement system. Both IDF projects are coming to closure in
2008. Finally, the fourth IDF grant (approved in 2007) assists the Government with the reform o f the
pension system.

39.       The World Bank i s one o f the main donors in the energy sector. A power access and
diversification project was approved by the Board in November 2005 (US$7 million IDA) and the
preparation o f a GEF medium-size project (MSP) on wind development is approaching completion. The
World Bank assists the Government inproducing an Electricity Sector Master Plan.

LessonsLearned
40.       Implementation o f World Bank projects in Djibouti has been on average satisfactory to highly
satisfactory over the last CAS period. Development objective and implementation progress of all projects
inthe portfolio are currently ratedas satisfactory. Disbursement lags have beenreducedsignificantly, and
project implementation time and efficiency have also improved in comparison with the previous CAS
period. Factors that have contributed to the improvement in the quality and speed o f implementation
include: (i)  focused, and simpler design o f the projects adapted to local implementation capacity; (ii) a
more intensive supervision o f the portfolio with a problem-solving approach; and (iii) more proactive
                                                                                            a
and professional External Financing Coordination Unitwithin the Ministry o f Finance that helpedquickly
address the problems as they arose. Another factor that helped significantly was the creation o f ADETIP4,
now ADDS', which acted as management and implementation unit for the government and donor-funded
social spendingprograms, especially inthe area o f infrastructure.

AnalyticalUnderpinnings

41.       Analytical underpinnings were provided by a recent assessment o f the achievements o f the first
PRSP (2004-2006) and a poverty map preparedin2007. A Country Economic Memorandum and a Public
Expenditure Review were finalized inlate 2006.

42.       A World Bank team visited Djibouti recently. The objectives of the appraisal mission were to
analyze the impact o f the food crisis on households, the budget, and the economy. The team also took
stock o f all policies and measures which the government enacted to counter the food crisis. It also advised
the government on further feasible and cost-effective short and medium term solutions to mitigate the
impact o f the food price increase on the poor. The proposed grant reflects the findings o f the mission.


 Agence Djiboutienne d'Extcution de Travaux d'InttrEt Public
 Agence Djiboutienne de Dkveloppement Social


                                                     10

V.       THEPROPOSEDOPERATION

43.       The severity of Djibouti's situation calls for a rapid response by the Bank. There is very
limited donor involvement inDjibouti and the financing requirements for any interventions are very high.
Without additional assistance, the food crisis may result in increased hardship on the population. Rising
social discontent could trigger unrest with considerable negative consequences inthe sub-region. So far,
no donor has provided budget support the government to counter the food crisis. However, the European
Commission funded emergency assistancethrough the WFP and UNICEF (US$2 million).

44.       The proposedFood Crisis ResponseDevelopmentPolicy Grant @PG) of US$5 millionis a
development policy operation intended to support the implementation o f the Government's program to
mitigate the impact o f the rising food prices on the poor, while maintaining fiscal stability. The Grant will
be financed through the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund, which i s being circulated inparallel for
approval by the Executive Directors.

45.       Objective. The objective o f the proposed Grant is to help the Government of Djibouti in
reducing hunger, preventing an increase in poverty and social unrest, and ensuring the fiscal stability
neededto foster medium-tern social and economic development. The supported policy measures are a tax
exemption on basic food items, expansion o f food aid, social assistanceandrelatedprograms.

46.       The Grant will be disbursed intwo tranches conditional onthe followingprior actions:

         First Tranche (US$4 million): Adoption o f a draft additional budget law for fiscal year 2008
             providing, inparticular, for the exemption from payment of the domestic consumption tax on
             five basic food items (rice, sugar, coolung oil, wheat flour and powder milk)- done prior to
             Board approval.

         Second Tranche (US$l million): Preparation o f an action plan, satisfactory to the World Bank, to
             channel direct support to the most vulnerable households - to be done prior to disbursement
             o f the tranche. The action plan aims at guiding the Government's social protection policy
             towards a system which i s characterized by better and more direct targeting o f social
             assistance. The proposed operation i s also conditional on maintenance o f a sound
             macroeconomic framework

Disbursements under the proposed operation are conditional on the maintenance o f a sound macro-
economic policy framework.

47.       Consultations on the content o f the proposed Grant were carried out with the Cabinet, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Solidarity as well as different donors during the Bank mission in
early-May 2008. The mission provided advice on short and medium term interventions to counter the
food crisis. An analysis was carried out to investigate the poverty impact o f recent interventions and
alternatives. A stocktalung o f all existing social assistance programs was also undertaken with the aim to
verify opportunitiesfor scalingup o f existing programs, inparticular, of food emergencyprograms.

48.       Institutional capacity exists for expanding school feeding, mother-child,livestock feeding
and relatedprograms.The operation would help the government to finance the expansiodscaling-up of
social assistance and related programs which i s otherwise not possible. Based on the assessment o f the
country team, there are several programs in Djibouti which could be rapidly expanded to increase their
geographic coverage and beneficiaries base or scaled up to accelerate the implementation (table 2 and
annex 6).




                                                      11

                Table 2: Potential benefits of expanding social assistance and related programs
Potential Prograrris for      `Iargct Group         Hcricfiriaries
Scaling Up
School feedingprogram         Prinmryschool         The schoolfeedingprogramprovidestwo mealsper
                             children               day for over 12,000 primary school studentsinrural
                                                    areas, creatingpositiveincentivefor poor flami'iies to
                                                    sendtheir cl.til&en to school. Expansionofthe program
                                                    to &e poorest qwarters of urbanareas may increasc
                                                    bencficiariesto IX,000 by 2012.

Filod~vouchcrkash    for      I!nrmployed butable   By distributingliiod inexchange for work on public
work                         bodiedworkingage        works projectssuck   8s wc.11 construction,
                              population            approximately 28,000 poor unenip1oyt.dindividuals
                                                     who are willing to work for food rations are likely to he
                                                    self-selectedinto these programs.Also, public assets
                                                     that are created fromtheseprogram can serve an
                                                    entire community. By expandingthese projects to
                                                     urbanareas, over 50,000 heneticiaries canbe reactied.

Emergency foodaidduring Nomadicpastoralists         Currently55,000 ruralpoorreceive foodaiddue to the
fcanseason(or prolonged       andm a l poor         prolonged&ought. It is expectedthat this ilumbermay
drought)                                             increaseto 70,000 or moreinthe leanseasonthis
                                                    summer.

Maternal-childhealth          Pregnantwomen,         Ptegrlant or lactatingtriotheis andchildrenunder the
                              children0-5 years      age of tive at risk ofnidnourishment.

Fisheries Progratns           Poor populationin     'I'tie fisheriesproject aims at increasrngfish-output and
                              coastalregion; by      generatingemptoynient by upgrading small-scale
                              extension,the poor in fishingoperations-160fishermenwere trained over the
                              other regions          last year 111improvedmodemfishingtechniques and
                                                     will be equippedwith larger boatsanddishing
                                                     equipmentto scaleuptheir operations. Assuming that
                                                     the creationof two ad     onaljobs isenabledby the
                                                     FisheriesProgramfor each fishernuntrained, 1,080
                                                     househ~lds(7,560 individuals)may benefit fromthis
                                                                         on, there is an indirectef%ct to the
                                                     largcrpoor populationinDjiboutibecausethe poor
                                                     wouldbeable to purchasenutritiousfood to affordtdble
                                                    prices.

Water wells pumps 8r
             t                Nomadicpastoralists
enicrgency distributionof     andrun1
livestock feed io rural areas conununitics
(thelatter does not exist but
caneasily be dcployed
tliroughLVW)




                                                       12

49.       The Bank has comparative advantages to assist Djibouti in managing the crisis. These
advantages stem from (i) Bank's involvement inassisting the Government inthe PRSP/INDS process;
                           the
(ii) abilitytoswiftlyprovidesignificant fundstocountriesatrisk;(ii) andpovertyanalysis
    its                                                                       policy
drawing upon country, regional and global experience; and (iv) its capacity to provide support for
medium and longer term measures critical to improving the social protection system. The Bank has also
multi-sectoral expertise that i s required to put in place integrated technical, social, economic, and
institutional solutions to address food security concerns and to effectively mitigate the adverse effects of
rising food prices.

50.       The proposed Development Policy Grant meets all the requirements as proposed under the
framework o f the trust fund Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP). Djibouti i s an IDA-eligible
country which as a food and oil net-importer i s highly vulnerable to price fluctuations for both
commodities. The appraisal mission provided policy analysis and advice to the Government on feasible
pricing responses to the food crisis. However, the total IDA 14 allocation o f US$23.8 for 2006-2008 for
Djibouti (of which US$3 million in FY08) i s minimal and all available funds are committed in energy,
health, education and urban development projects. Hence, there are no other options available to the
country team to finance any further emergency assistancebut the GFRP facility.

51.       The expected outcome of the grant is to reduce pressures on the household budgets of the
poor while maintaining fiscal stability. Indicators to track the achievement o f the grant were based on
the following three dimensions:

         (i)Thefood pricedimensiontomeasuretheimpactoftheinterventionsonthepriceofbasic
                 food items.
         (ii)Thepovertydimensiontomeasuretheimpactoftheinterventionsatthehouseholdlevel.
         (iii)
             Thefiscal dimension to measure the impact o f the interventions on the government budget.
                 Fiscal and economic indicators will be monitored in cooperation with the IMF which
                 collects relevant data within the framework o f the Article IV consultation and PRGF
                 implementation.




                                                     13

         Table 3: Monitoring Indicators for FY08/09

              Indicator            Baseline          Unit          Period            Source

     Food price
       PalmOil: Differential o f  0.273        US$/Per k g        142008       DECPG, DISED,
       domestic to international                                               monthly survey
       price
       Low quality rice:          0.152        US$/Per k g                               "
       Differential o f domestic
       to internationalprice
                                                                                         "
       Price o f low-quality rice 120          DFkg                   "

                                                                                         "
       Cooking oil                254          DFkg                   "

                                                                                         "
       Wheat flour                130          D F k g                "


       Consumer Price Index       23.1         %                 2007, year
       for Food                                                   average                "



     Poverty
       Food share o f total       41-51        %                  142008       FEWSNET, based on
       household budget o f                                                    monthly survey by
       poor (extreme +relative)                                                DINAS
       Acute malnutrition         16.8         % in total          2007        FEWSNET,
       Severe acute               2.4          population                      UNICEF, WFP,
       malnutrition                                                 "          Ministry o fHealth


     Fiscal
       Consumer Price Inflation   7.0          percent             2007
       FiscalDeficit              -3.5         %, share inGDP      2007
       Tax revenue                55           %, share intotal  2007 (est.)            Of
       External debt              55.5                                         IMFArticle IV
                                                                               consultation report
       Debt service               3.2          %, share inGDP    2007 (est.)
       Domestic arrears           -0.8


52.        Alternative Bank instruments were considered during identification and subsequently
discarded.The government clearly indicated its preference for a fast-disbursing instrument inresponse to
the urgentneed to mitigate the negative impact o f food price increases on poor households and to ensure
fiscal sustainability to avoid interruptions ineconomic growth.

53.        Compliance with OP 8.60. Given the nature o f the operation, which i s meant to respond to a
crisis, the team had insufficient time to adequately address all design considerations of the proposed
Grant. This concerns inparticular the macro-economic assessment (especially medium term outlook and
debt sustainability), poverty and social analysis, and possible effects on natural resources. Remaining
design considerations will be addressed in the weeks following the Board discussions. The country team
will, jointly with the IMF, develop a new medium term Eramework and finalize the debt sustainability
analysis taking into account the most recent price increases. A Bank mission will overlap with the next
IMF mission which will conclude the negotiations on the PRGF. This will allow to closely align the
objectives o f the PRGFwith those o f the proposed Grant. A policy note will be prepared as an outcome o f
the World Bankmission inMay to analyze the social andpoverty impact o f the Government's response to
the food crisis. Finally, a Bank expert will visit Djibouti and assess the environmental sustainability of
government initiatives supported by this Grant as stated inthe Letter of Development Policy.


                                                       14

VI. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

Povertyand Social Impact

54.      The urgency o f reacting to the crisis only provided insufficient time to analyze the poverty and
social impact o f the Government measures on poverty. A rapid assessmentresulting from the recent Bank
mission confirms that the set o f measures undertaken by the Government are the most feasible given the
circumstances and will have fast and positive impact on Djibouti's poor population. They will be
adequately targeted to the poorest groups inDjiboutibased on the following considerations:

                 The elimination o f the tax on five basic, low quality food prices i s directly improvingthe
                 situation o f the poor. The cost share o f these five basic items comprise about 50 percent
                 and 40 percent o f total food expenditures for extreme poor and relative poor households,
                 respectively. Bread comprises about 17-18 percent o f total food expenditures, but the
                 government hadpreviously reducedthe TIC on flour for bakeries. ARer bread, rice (15%)
                 and flour (13%) constitute the largest food component shares for extreme poor
                 households. The tax reduction targets food items that comprise a large share o f food
                 expenditures for poorer household. With 74 percent o f the population living inrelative
                 poverty and 42 percent in extreme poverty, the elimination o f the tax can provide some
                 immediate reliefto these households.

                 Food aid will help meet the caloric requirements o f the poor and vulnerable households.
                 By distributinglow quality butnutritious food and usingself-selectionmechanisms (e.g.
                 food for work programs), the neediest are likely to receive the aid. Also, coupling food
                 distribution with health assessmentdservices for pregnant and lactating mothers and
                 infants as done in the UNICEF program improves service delivery and targeting to this
                 vulnerable group. In particular for nomadic pastoralists (who are not included in the
                 household surveys), their livestock which are their only source o f livelihoods, are being
                 decimated by the ongoing drought. The downside o f this measure i s that part o f the
                 financing available to these programs i s absorbed by their administration.
                 In absence of direct targeting mechanism (e.g. cash-transfer system), the budget has a
                 regressive distribution. Part o f the funds will be absorbed by the administration, either o f
                 the central government or the executing agencies. However, it should be noted that the
                 social system in Djibouti i s strongly based on informal transfers and that part o f the
                 salaries o f public officials (or aid workers) often provides for the extended family (the
                 family nucleus usually consist o f 6-7 members on average).
                 The distributional impact of other related social programs i s mixed. In some, e.g. the
                 upgrading o f water well operations or fisheries program, targeting i s achieved through
                 geographic coverage with focus on rural (poor) neighborhoods or coastal regions. There
                 are spillovers to the non-poor population (e.g. more fish for the whole country) but they
                 are likely to be too small to have a tangible effect on distribution.


EnvironmentalAspects

55.      The proposed operation will have limited negative direct environmental impact, essentially in
relation with activities envisaged under the framework o f the I N D S inthe area o f fisheries development,
sanitation and rehabilitation and drilling o f water wells in the rural areas. The third pillar o f the INDS
mentions explicitly the focus o f the program on environmental sustainability and protection o f the natural
environment through the development o f appropriate sectoral strategies which should ensure a balanced
development respectful o f the natural resources. Actually, alleviating the food crisis will tend to decrease


                                                       15

unsustainable pressures on natural resources, as the proposedmeasures aiming at improving food security
will prevent the most exposed population from depleting inappropriately natural resources and
encroaching on environmentally sensitive ecosystems. The operation intends to support essentially the
food security aspects o f the INDS which, in some o f its dimensions, aims at improving sustainable access
to natural resources of fragile populations. It i s understood that the ministries responsible for
implementing the different pillars o f the I N D S will reinforce their planning and execution capabilities.
Also, the monitoring and evaluation unit (INDS secretariat) located within the Prime Minister's Office
will exercise an overall oversight responsibility and will monitor the environmental performance o f the
government's program.

Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation

56.         The Ministry o f Finance and International Development i s the main entity responsible for the
overall implementation o f the Grant. It will ensure that the funds are used for their intendedpurpose inthe
context o f the budget and as indicated inthe Letter o f Development Policy.

57.         Regular Bank missions will interact closely with staff of the Ministry of Finance and
International Cooperation for reporting progress and coordinating activities among other concerned
ministries. Bank staff will also continue the policy dialogue in the field with the institutions involved in
the implementation of the policies and programs, as well as to coordinate effectively with donors and
agencies, especially those involved in the delivery of emergency assistance. Bank missions will review
government progress in the implementation o f the interventions, monitor actions, and ensuring that the
expected project outputs and outcomes materialize. The monitoringactivities will be supported by the on-
going implementation of the IDF grant for the establishment o f a national M&E system. The following
table summarizes the timingo f the proposedmonitoringactivities.

                                                      1              1
                                 Table 3: Monitoring and EvaluationSchedule

                                Sources of Data
        Description                 collection         Qualitative    Quantitative        Timeline
                                                                                      ~




         Baseline            IMF,FEWSNET,                 No             Yes           2ndQuarter 2008
         Post-project        Central Bureauof             No             Yes            At completion
                             Statistic, INDS
         Satisfaction        secretariat, Ministry        No             Yes              Mid-term
                             of Health                                                    evaluation


FiduciaryAspects

58.        Diagnosis. The Public Financial Management System (PFMS) o f Djibouti has recently
improved, but still remains risky. The overall risk i s assessed as significant.

59.        The 2004 CFAA6rated the fiduciary risk as "high" due to serious weaknesses in most o f the
pillars o f the PFMS inDjibouti. The CFAA identified serious weaknesses in the budget preparation and
execution. Expenditures deviated from the initial budget which reflected weaknesses in controls and
accounting (in 2004, arrears reached 25 percent o f the GDP). This was coupled by inaccuracy o f the
revenue estimates due to the limited technical capacity o f the BudgetDirectorate.

60.        Internal controls and monitoring o f the budget i s manual, lengthy and complex, creating a risk
that i s heightened with the role playedby the Ministryo f Finance as it implements the budget on behalfo f


 Country Financial and Accountability Assessment


                                                       16

line ministries and controls the expendituresat the same time. This i s coupled with an ineffective internal
audit function managedbythe General Inspectorate o fFinances.

61.       Although the accounting and reporting functions are managed by qualified staff with good
experience and knowledge, lack o f integrated information system and inaccurate budget information
undermines the reliability o f the financial statements in general. The government external auditor suffers
from lack o f full compliancewith international standards (INTOSAI and ISA).

62.       Remedies. The mitigation o f the PFMS risk was proposed within an action plan consisting,
firstly inupgradingo fthe primary budget function (revenues, expenditures), secondly ina set ofmeasures
aimed at reforming the internal controls procedures (notably by puttingan end to the procedure o f ex ante
control) and upgrading the internal audit and, thirdly in proposing a new study on how to better
coordinate the three main audit bodies (Chamber of Accounts, General Inspection of the State and
General Inspectionof Finances).

63.       This action planhas been implemented through an IDF grant ($350,000) in2006. This planhas
provided the system with basic tools and procedures o f budget management. The Budget Directorate has
now better capacity (human and technical) to formulate, prepare and execute the budget inmore realistic
conditions but still more work i s needed to implement results-orientedbudget approach and a multi-year
perspective.

64.       However, little progress has been achieved inthe reform o f the internal controls and ingranting
more autonomy and flexibility to line ministries. The coordination o f audit bodies i s still unsatisfactory
butaworkshop isplannedwith the Government andthe Audit bodiesto try to resolve the issue.

65.       As a result, the fiduciary risk, though lower than at the time of the 2004 CFAA (high fiduciary
risk), remains significant. However, present trends are encouraging as the World Bank continues to stay
engaged in improving budget management and quality and the IMF provides technical assistance within
the framework o f the PRGF.

Disbursement andAuditing

66.       The proposed Grant will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for development policy
lending. The amount will be disbursed intwo tranches upon effectiveness.

67.       Flow of funds (including foreign exchange) i s subject to normal financial management
processes. It i s not possible to track the ultimate use o f the foreign exchange provided by the Grant
proceeds, but they will flow into a sub-account at the Central Bank o f Djibouti (BCD) (part o f the
country's foreign exchange reserve), and an equivalent amount will be deposited inthe budget system o f
the Government, and are thus subject to normal public financial management processes and BCD
procedures. By way o f a letter, the Government will provide confirmation to the Bank when the grant
amount has been credited to an account used to finance budgeted expenditures. The diagram below
depicts the envisaged flow o f funds arrangements:


   World Bank                    BCD                            MOF                      Budget
                                  US$                       Local Currency     +      DjiboutiPFM
                             Dedicated Bank                GeneralAccount -
                                Account                          BCD




                                                     17

68.       Auditing. Since 2003, the BCD has had its accounts audited on a yearly basis in accordance
with international auditing standards by Ernst & Young. The audit o f the 2002 financial statements was
completed by Ernst & Young at end-2003 and publishedin the Journal Ofjciel o f August 2004. The
accounts o f 2004 and 2005 were also audited respectively in October 2005 and June 2006 and published
in the Central Bank 2005 Annual Report and the 2005 Journal OfJiciel. The 2006 financial statements
were also auditedby Ernst & Young with the audit report issuedon October 2007.


69.       The Bank will request the auditors o f the BCD, Ernst & Young, to conduct an audit o f the
dedicated account established in the BCD. The audit will cover the accuracy o f the summary o f
transactions of the dedicated account, including accuracy o f exchange rate conversions. This will entail
obtaining confirmations from correspondingbanks involvedinthe flow of funds and the UNagency. The
Government o f Djibouti will (a) furnish to the World Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six (6) months after (i) the deposit o f the First Tranche and (ii) deposit o f the Second Tranche
                                                                        the
into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, a certified copy o f the report of such audits, o f such scope
and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request; and (b) furnish to the World Bank such
other information concerning both Deposit Accounts and their audits as the World Bank shall reasonably
request.

RisksandRiskMitigation

70.       Fiduciary risks: As indicated above, the updated fiduciary risk i s significant. The CFAA
identified serious weaknesses in the budget preparation and execution and in controls and accounting.
This was compounded by inaccuracy of the revenue estimates due to the low technical capacity of the
Budget Directorate. Accelerated implementation o f the action plan developed through the IDF grant for
improved budget management i s intended to help mitigate the fiduciary risk. The World Bank and the
IMFwill continue to provide technical assistanceto the MinistryofFinance.

71.       Implementation: As a development policy operation, there are little risks in regard o f
implementation. However, in a broader context o f the government's desire to respond quickly to the
crisis, there are procurement aspects within the individual measures related to expanding or scaling up
programs (food, technical experts, contracting o f UN agencies). This risk i s considered moderate. The
drafting of the revised Code for public procurement i s inits final stages, and is expected to be ratifiedby
the National Assembly within 2008. A national procurement manual inorder to harmonize procedures o f
Djibouti's development partners and Government for a more efficient and transparent public procurement
system has been completed and will be rolled out for use by line agencies in June 2008. This i s
complemented by the implementation o f a study to strengthen the institutional framework o f the C N M
(National or High Tender Board). In addition, the urgency o f the request and characteristics of the
program signal the willingness o f the government to provide social assistance quickly.

72.       Market Developments:Prices for food itemscould stabilize at the current highlevel. This would
-inthe absenceofother socialprotectionmechanisms-pressure the governmentto maintainthe tax
exemptionwhich actually i s intendedto be temporary. This, inturn, would further threaten fiscal stability
due to the continued loss o f revenue. However, the PRGF facility, which is currently being negotiated,
entails structural adjustment measures to maintain fiscal stability and debt sustainability. This risk i s rated
as moderate.




                                                     18

                    ANNEX 1: LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                         (Unofficial translation of letter inAnnex ...)

                                                                                       P1501 P.001 / D O 8




                                                 A
                                  Monsieur RobertZOELLICK
                          Prtisidentdu Group6 de la BanqueMondlale
                                        WASHINGTON D.C.


          LETTRE DE POLlTlQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU OOUVERNEMENT
                                             2008 2011
                                                 -
I                                     I.     INTRODUCTION

     1.      La Republique de Djibouti fait face h une crise aigue provenant de
     I'eugrnentation cornbinbe et exceptionnellement large des prix de pktrole et des
     produits alimentaires. Cette crise est d'autant plus accentuC?eque le pays depend
     totalement de I'irnportation de ces prodults pour sa consommation. Eile se greffe sur
     une situation de pauvretb d6Jaaggravee par le flux de refugh des conflits de la
     corne d'Afrique, et menace ainsi de pede tout acquls en progrgs 6conomique et
     social et tout gain de stabifiti! politique et institutionnelle r6alfs6 au prlx de grands
     sacrifices et efforts d'ajusternent au cours de ces dernibres annbes. Le
     Gouvernement est en train de faire de 6on mieux pour alleger les consbquences de
     la flambke des prix sur la populationet ce dens le cadre de I'lnltiative Nationale de
     DbveloppernentSocial (INDS-2007). L'achbvement d'un allbgement visible et effectif
     face ce defi exceptionneldemande un complementd'appui soutenuet consequent
     de la part de la communautbinternationale.

I                   Contewte GBn&m/

     2.      La Rbpubliquede Dliboutiest sitube sur la polnte Est de la Come de I'Afrlquc
     et B I'entrkede la Mer Rougeavec une populationde I'ordre de 750 000 habfianta.
     Depuls son independance, le 27 juin 1977, Djibouti a vecu au rythme des conflits
     secouant la sous-rbgion et des diverses calamWs naturelles (secheresse, famine)
     ainsi que I'afflux de ritfugies qui s'en est suivi. Jouissant d'une stabiliib
     exceptionnelle, le Pays a du subir directernent et indirecternentles contrecoupsde
     ces dramesqui ont sbtieusementperturbe son dtheloppement bconorniqueet social.

     3.      Malgr6un revenu par tat6 de 1040 dollam US (en parit4 de pouvoird'echat),
     populatlonnatlonalevlt a Djibouti-Ville, 69.3% de ses habitants vivaienten dessous
     Djibouti accuse toujoun de tr& forts taux de pauvretb. Alors que 80% de la

     du ssuil officielde pauvretben 2002. Plusdestrois quartsde la populationrituee sur
     la riveOuestde l'oued (Batbala, PK12)vit avec moinsde 3 dollars parjour.




                                                       19

21.MA1.20OR  12:09 00253354409                                                         #1501 P.002 /508




           4.      En sus des ces aspects mon4taires prhccupants, la pauvrete urbaine A
           Djibouti-Villese manifestepar destaux tres &eves d'habitat informel,un faible acchs
           aux services publics de base (eau, Blectricfte, assainissement et drainage,
           Famassage des ordures, routes d'accW, des indicateurs de sante prboccupants
           (wuverture et a d s aux sewices de sante: 2 medecins pour mille habitants,
           mortalit6et morbidite infantile et maternelle, prevalencedu VIHISIDA), des niveaux
           d'kducation encore feibles (capacitbs d'accueil insuffsantes, faibles taux de
           participation: 66.8% darts le primaire, taux BIevb d'analphabbtisme des femmes :
           51.5%).

           5.      La RBpubliquede Djiboutis'btali engagbedopuis 1996dans un processusde
           rhformes6conomiqueset sociales cornmenwnt par un programmed'assainissement
           budgetaireavec un Accord Stand-by conclu en avril 1996qui s'est poursuiviavec la
           Facilitcjpour la Reductionde la Pauvreteet la Croissance (FRPC), d'octobre 1999a
           decembre 2002. Durant ces annees d'ajustement budg&taire, les efforts
           d'assainissement rdalises par les autoritbs sont considbrables et les resultats
           obtenus encourageants. Ces programmes ont permis de &duke les desbquilibres
           macro-bconomiques ;de maltriser I'inflation autour de 2% ; de renforcer la position
           budgetakede I'Etat, de contrbler rigoureusernentlesd4pensespubllquesB traven la
           compressionde la massesalarialeet d'ambliorerla politiquefiscale.

           6.     Cependant, si les objedifs de stabilisation rnacrdconomique ont &e realises,
           le rbtablissement de la croissance economique ne s'est pas fait ressentir sur les
           couches le$ plus vulnbrables de la population djiboutienne et les rbsultats de
           I'Enqubte sur les rnknages (EDAM-2) reallseeenjuillet 2002 donnent plus de 45.2%
           de la populatlonvivant dans la pauvrete.L'objectif de reductionde la pauvrete, pierre
           angulaire de la politiquede dbveloppernentBconomlqueet social de Djibouti.ne peut
           &trernaUrialisB que dans le contexted'unecroissanceeconomiquequi garantisseun
           meilleur acds des pauvres aux services sociaux de base. C'est I'objectif que s'est
           fixe le Document de Strategle de R6ductionde la Pauvretd (DSRP) &labor&par le
           gouvemement et approuvepar les institutionsde BrettonWoods enjuin 2004.

           7.      Les autorites Djiboutiennes ont mis en place un programme interhaire de
           rkforrnes Bconornlques sur la periode 2004-2005, puis en 2006 appuyB par un
           programme de rbfbrence du FMI (Programme de Suivi par le FMI, PSF) dont
           I'objectif est d'achever des rbformes soutsnues par la premiere Facllitb pour la
           Reduction de la Pauvret6et la Cmlssance(FRPC) dont le pays a bbnbficie au cours

           enwe d'sboutiri)un programme de rbformessoutenus par une FRPC.
           de la periode 1999-2003 et d'btteblir de bons antbedents de poiitique Bconomique


           8.      La mise en muvre graduelle de reformes struciurelfes s'est poursuivie. Des
           progresont Btb enregistres dans la realisation des reperes structurels et I'essentlel
           des crfires fiscaux ont btb respect& dans ce Programmede suivi avec les Services
           du Fonds. Des efforts ont 6t4 accomplis par le Gouvernement pour promouvoir la
           stabllite macro6conomique et reiancer la crolssance au moyen d'une rbforme du
           cadre juridique pennettant une implication du secteur priv4 dans la gestian des
           entreprlsesd'lnfrastructures,et les IDEen g6neral.

           8.
           permetCanalyse
                     de relever un certain nornbre d'avandes signiflcatives rnais aussi de
                             du bilan de trois annbes de mise en pBuvre du DSRP (2004-2007)

           constater que des faibiesses chronlques continuent B entraver les efforts de
           dbvetoppement du pays. Parmi leb reSult8% encourageants,on peut clter la relance
                                                    2




                                                          20

,  21.KA1.2008   12:09 00253354409                                                         l i i a u i r . u u I U U U




             de la croissanceBconomique, dont le taux moyens'est btabli a 3,7% sur la periode
             2004-2008 avec 4.8% en 2008 et 5.3% en 2007, I'amblioration de r a d s a 1'8cole
             primaire(68,2%en 20061,avec unequasidllmination des dkparitbs de genre (Indica
             de paritb des sexes de O,B8), I'augmentation du taux d'alphabetkation des femmes
             Bgbes de 15 B 24 ans (47,5%). Ces rbsuitats ont ete atteints grace P la mise en
             ajuvre des mesures prioritairesdans les secteurs sociaux (fa sant8, reducation, la
             promotion du genre) et dans les domaines du soutien B la croi66ance et de
             pr6setvationdes acquisde la stabilitedu cadre macro4conomique.

             I O .   Pour ce qul est des insuffisances,elles concement, d'abord, le niveauencom
             falble de la plupert des indicateurssociaux. Le nlveau de ces indicateursconduit au
             constat que d'importantes franges de la populatlon oontinuent B vivre dans des
             conditions de prCicarit6 h la limite de la d8cence, incompatibles avec la dignite
             humaine.

             11. Partant de c86 constab, le President de la Republique a Ian&, le 09 janvier
             2007, I'lnltiative Nationale pour le D6veloppement Social (INDS). VBritable projet de
             sociBtb, I'INDS exige la mise en ceuvre de politiques tnthrbes e'inscriwant dans le
 I           cadre d'un projet global et coherent otr toutes les dimensions se conjuguent et Be
             complbtent. En outre, elle fixe des priorltbsrnajeures :(1)la promotionde I ' a d s aux
             sewices sociaux de base, (ii)la restructurationde i'appareil productif national,et (iii)
             I'assistanceaux personnes en grande vuln6rabilite. Enfin, elle doit 6tre fondde sur
             ler principes de bonne gouvemance politique, sociale, iconornique et finandhe.
             Ces orientations font de I'INDS le nouveau cadre central de la politique de
             developpement 6conorniqueet socialdu pays.
 I                   Lea potentialif% de Djibouti
             12.     Malgre des ressources naturelies lirnitbes. la republique de Djibouti ne
             manque pas d!atouts importants pour s'engager sur le chemin de la croissance
             bconomique. A M , le pays bbnbflcied'un systbme Bconomiqueliberalse traduisant
             par la Ilbertb de commerce, la libre convertibilitbdu Franc DjiboutiB parltbfixe avec
             le dollar US, unsystbme bancairemoderne, le libretransfertdes capltaux et la liberte
             d'8tablissement pour tout investisseur sans obligation de parrainage. Le Pays est
             dot& 6gaiernent d'infrastructures de transports et de telt5mmmunications
             perfanantes lui perrnettantde fairevaloir sa placedans la competitionregionale.
             13,     Toutefois, pour tirer avantage de ces atouts, I'bconomie djiboutlenne doit
             PrBcetveret renforcer unenvironnementde stabilltd eociale, politique Bt Bconornique
             nkcessaire au developpement du secteur prhre et au flux d'lnvestissernents
             etrangen. Elle dolt aussi s'affranchir des contraintessuivantes : (i) le coat excessif
             des salaires tant dans le secteur publlc que dans le secteur privb; (ii)le prix 81evb
             des prestations des utilites publiques (eau, 6lectriclU) et autres infrastructures et ;
             (Hi)le faible d&eloppernent des ressources humalnesqui affecte et handicape la
             productivitede I'bconomienationale.

             14.     Le d8fi de Djibouti est en effet de crder les conditions qui entratneront des
             investlssements prives accrus et une accumulation de capital hurnain, lesquels
             am6lloreront la productivke en general. Ces conditions peuvent &re obtenues
             grossikrement dans un cadre rnactdconornique et fiscal stable, grace B une
             administrationpubliqueefficace avec des colits de distributionplus raisonnables,des
             marches de biens eMcaces (march&du travailflexible, travail quallfi8, infrastructures
                                                        3




                                                            21

efficscesen Corns), soutenuespar un cadre instltutlonnelet I&at qui essure la mise
en applicationadiquate et laprbdictibilitedes loiset rdgles.
        Les obJectifsde cmissanceet derdduetionde Is pauvretb

15.     Doreset deja, le Gouvemementreaffirmesa volonte de mdnerle paysvels la
rbalisatlondes OMD en 2015 conformhmentaux objectiis de I'INDS. Les politiques
publiques s'lnscriront dksormais dans cette perspective. A moyen terne (horizon
2010 les principaux objectlfs portent sur : (i) la reduction de I'incidence de la
pauvretB extrbme et celle de la pauvretb relative, (ii) I'augmentationdu taux annual
scolansationbrute CBS) h 83%dane le prlmaireet a 61%dam lesecondairetout en
moyen de croissance Bconomlque a plus de 7%, (Hi) I'augmentatlon du Taux de

reduisant les dispariths de genre et le8 dlsporitbs spatlalee, et (iv) la rbduction du
Tauxde mortallte Infantile(TMI) B 60960, du Taux de mortalite infanto-juvbnile(TMIJ)
B 80% et du taux de mortalite rnaternelle (TMM) 4 400 pour 100.000 naissances
vivantes.

16.     La rbussite de I'INDS passe par la pfeine implication de I'ensemble des
acteurs du dbveloppement (Administration, $Ius, societe civile, secteur priib,
populations,baiileufsde fonds) et la mobilisationefiective de leurs hnergies,dans le
cadred'un partenariat nouveau, qui permetde relancer les effortsde dbveloppement
Bconomique et social du pays. En particulier, une augmentation senslble de I'aide
publiqueau developpement(APD) foumie par lesbeilleursdefonds sera nbcessaire.
CeReAPD comprendraa lafois les mncOurSfinanciers et I'aeeistancetechnique.

           II.    LES EFFETSDE L'INFLATION MONDIALESUR DJIBOUTI

17.     Comme beauwupde paysdu continent, la RCpubllquede Djiboutiest frappee
de pletn fouet par les consequences de la hausse g6nerallsee des produits
alimentairesde base conjugueeilI'augmentationcontinueet vertigineuse des cours
mondiaux du pbtrole amor&e bien avant la premiere. Cette inflation importee est
d'autant plus prejudiciable & I'6conomle djiboutienne que le pays est dbmunl de
ressourcesnaturelleset neproduitni I'un niI'autredes produitsvises.

18.     Djiboutiest un pays d'irnportationavec un ri2girnecommercialouvert et de ce
fait I'impadde la haussedes prix au niveau mondialsur le march&national estdirect
et Irnmldlat, Cet impact est d'autant plus amplifie que le march& local de ces
produitsest companiment6et de forme monopolistique. C'est alnsique !eprix du rlz
a plus que double entre fdvrier 2006 et mars 2008. L'lndlce des prlx B la
consommation aWichait h fin 2007 un taux de 8.1% contre 3.4% en 2006. Cette
inflation est principalement tlrb par la hausse du prix du carburant et des produits
alimentalres.

19.     Pour le secteur bnergbtlque, Djiboutl est entibrement dependant du fuel et
gezolepour lefonctionnementde sa centrale thermique. 11 n'est donc pas surprenant
que le flambh vertlgineuse des cours du baril du ptitrole a rendu la situation de
I'entreprlse publlque (Electricit6de Djibouti EDD) trbs pboccupanteet le secours
                                             -
financier de VEtat, pour w t w une nouvelle augmentation des tarifs dbjle Clevhs du
Kllowattheure(les demieres augmentatlons ont eu lieuen 2005 et 2007), semble la
seule alternative dsns I'immMiet. Par ailleurs, ilfaut kgalement sauligner que I'Etat
subventionne le ooM B la pomp@du gazok et du petrnle lampant en $e privant

                                          4




                                              22

mensuelfementdune partie de ses recettes fismles tirbes de ces importations. Le
soucl constant des autarit6s est de veiller sur la stabilite sociale (le gazole est utilise
par lestransports collectifs et taxis, le petrotelampant pour ies besoins domestiquee
des menages pauvresf BU detriment parfois de I'bquilibre budgbtaire. Et c8
desbquilibre et les tensions de trborerie qui s'en suivent front en s'aggravant si la
conjoncturemondialese maintientau rythmeactuel.

20.    Par ailleurs, la deterioration de la situations'est accentubeavec la secheresse
qui a cause d'bnormes dWts au niveau des populations nomades et de bur
cheptel. Le Qouvernement a fait appel P la cornmunautbinternationaleet bgalement
I la solidarit6 des djlboutiensqui s'esttraduite parune mobiiisationcollectivesans
prbddent sous la houlette de I'Union des Femmes de Djibouti (UNFD). Sur le
terrain, le PAM, qui a halement la gestion des refugib somaliens, n'est pas en
mesurede tenir financihrement et de se focaliser sur les cantines scolaires si I'appui
de la communaut6ipternationalesefalt attendre.

Mesuread'urgence d6fhentreprises

21.    Pour faire face B cette crise Me B la flambee des prix des produits
alimentaires, le Gouvernement a cornmen& par prendre un dispositif de mesures
d'urgence.
22.    La premiere mesure qui a eu un effetde soulagernent au niveau des foyers
Djibouttensest la suppression de la Taxe Inttirieure P la Consommation (TIC) pour
cinq produtts alimentaires de base: riz, huile alimentaire, sucre, farine et lait en
poudre. Alnsl, le taux a 8t6 ramen6 de 8% B 0% et I'incidence budgetake de cstte
mesureest de I'ordre de 4 Millions$US pour l'annbe. Mme si I'obJectifest louable, il
n'en reste pes moins que le manque i3 gagner est important pour le Budget qui doit
aussisupporterd'autres depenses sociales

23.    La semnde mesure concerne la mise en place d'une oampagne de
senstbilisatlon et de contrfjle des cornmerqants detaillants pour faire respecter les
marges accordks sur les produits de grande consommation. Une brigade de
contrdlea Bt& instituee cornposde de representantsdu minlstbre du Commerce, des
Douanes et des Imp6ts (Finances) et du ministere de I'lntbrieur. ParallBlement. les
autotitbs ont initib et encourage une politique d'ldentlfication de nouveaux
fournisseurs pour dlversifier les sources d'approvisionnement des lmportateurs
djiboutiens et soutenir I'organisation d'achats groupes pour faire b6nbficier des
boonomiesd'khelle. L'accBaaux credits bancaireset faoilites de financementserait
Bgalementencouragepourles importateurs.

24.    La troisibrne mesure a consisti en I'intenjlction par le Gouvernement de la
reexportationdes produits allmentaires lnltiatement destin&s au march6 djlboutien.
En raison de la taille de ces marches et des risquss probabtes de *nude,               les
importateurs djiboutiens ont 6th tenlds de r6exporter vers les pays limitrophes
(Ethiopie, Somalie) 00 leurs produits etaient vendus plus chen. Cette mesure ne
conwrne pas les marchandlses en transit et est destinbe & pr6venir contre tout
risquede penuriesur le march6local.

25.    De leurscbtes, les agenes de d6veloppement(PAM, UE, UNICEF...) m6nent
des actions pour rbduire I'impact de la crise alimentalre sur cdrtaines couches de la
populationmaiaavecdefaiblesre8sources.

                                             5




                                                 23

2 1 . M A I . ~ o o 8 12:11 00253354409                                                           $1501 P.006 /On8




                  Mesures B entreprendre dans le court terme moyernnant disponibltiU de
                  financement :

                  26.
                  limiteeLes ne viendront pas B bout de cette situation de crise alimentaire qui
                           et  autorites sont consclentes que ces rnesures d'urgence auront une poflb
                  hypothhquelourdement les perspectivesde developpement Bconomiqueet social du
                  pays. A cet Met, le Gouvernementa sollicitb l'assi8tance de la Banque mondialequi
                  a rhagi imrnWatementen depachant une mission technique chargee d'identifier les
                  mesures spkifiques et opdrationnelles qui pourraient Btre prises asser rapidement
                  pour atttinuer I'impact de la crise allmentaire sur les populations pauvres et
                  vuln8rables.

                  27.
                  negatifs de la situation de crise actuelle et B faire faace aux besolns urgents des
                          Le programme d'urgence du gouvemement visera h mlnirniser les impacts

                  populationspauvres et vulnbrables. La conception et le contenu de ce programme
                  ont fait I'objet de discussions et cancertationsentre les autorit6s et les servicesde la
                  Banquemondiale.

                  28.     Les Blementsdu programmedu Gouvernementidentifiees comprennent: (i) le
                  renforcementde I'approvisionnementet l'alde alirnentaireen milieu rural et urbainet;
                  (ii)I'approvisionnement en eaudu milieu ruralet I'aide au diveloppernentdumetier
                  de la pache ;et (iii) la mise en place d'un systeme de ciblage des populations les
                  plusaffectks envue d'ameiiorer I'efficiencedutransfert d'aide.

                  29.     La premiere composante consiste en un renforcementdu proQrammed'aide
                  alimentaire en milieu rural et urbaln. Dans un contexte de crise alimentaire et de
                  secheresseavec leun cons4quencessur la sant6 nutritionnelle,les autoritbs se sont
                  fixbes wrnme priorit4 d'assurer une reserve alirnentaire pour subvenir aux besoins
                  pressants des populations le6 plus pauvres vivant aussi bien en milieu rural
                  qu'urbain. Les cantines scolaires, les centres de santb, les communautks
                  vlllageoises ou de quartiers seront privilt3gleS. Cette composante serait implantbe
                  sous forme de a vivres contre travail (Foodfor work)    H et pour sa mise en ceuvre le
                  gouvemement fera appel au savoir-faire des organismes farniliers de ce type
                  d'op6rations (ONARS, ADDS, PAM et ONG). L'enveioppe alloude est estimk                2
                  Millionsdollars US.

                  30.     La deuxibme cornposante de ce Programmevise B ia fois I'am6lioration de

                  pacheurs pour encourager cette activit8. Ainsi, en milieu rural, I'eau est une denr6e
                  I'approvisionnement en eau en milieu rural et le renforcernent des moyens des

                  rare et ce sont les populatlons et leur cheptel qui en souffrent le plus. Le cheptelqul
                  est le patrimolne de ces nomades rlsque de dieparaitre si aucune action n'est
                  entreprise pour lutter contre cette situation. Cobjectifest de rbhabiliter et de rendre
                  opbrationnels les puits exlstants en milieu rural en les &quipant de pompes solaires
                  pour aiimenter en eau la population rurale et le betall, ainsi que pour la produdlon
                  marnichere. Le budget pr4vu pour ce volet est de 450 000 dollars US et permettrait
                  connalssance du milieu et de ses scteurs {ONG...), I'ADDS sera I'agence
                  de rehabiliter une dizaine de puits dans les rkgions de I'intbrieur. En raison de sa

                  d'exbcution.

                  31.     Pour la sous-composante plche, I'objectif est de renforcer les pecheurs
                  djiboutiens en les aldant B acqubrir des petits bateaux de peche et I'bqutpernent

                                                             6




                                                                 24

n6cessalresous la forme de microcredit en nature(achatde materielspar I'ADDS et
rernboursementtotal ou partielparles pbcheurs).

32.    Pour ce qui est de la troisihme composante, le Gouvernement reconnan les
lnsuffisancesdu systbmede ciblage vers les plus demunis cornme c'est le cas dans
la majorit&des pays en developpement. L'ampteur de la arise et la Bravit6 de son
impact sur Jes plus necessiteux des Djiboutiens mettent BOUS lumiere c&e
insvffisance. En particulier, I'inefficacitb relatlve des moyens indirects de ciblage
cornpar& Iun transfert ciblb et direct vers les plus necessiteux. Le Gouvernement
entend, B cet effet,d'identification un
systbme efficaceson    entreprendredes grand effort pour developper urgernrnent un
                                           plus pauvres, et d'ambliorer i'infrastructure
nkessalre                perfectionnement progressif. Le Gouvernement entend
entreprendre dans ce but, d'ici septembre 2008, I'identificatlon d'au moins 5000
mbnages des plus nkmsiteux. Etant donnee I'urgence de la situation, ce ciblage
peut se baser sur un systhne d'identification a travers des commissions
communautaires dans les zones les plus pauvrespar exemple. IIest entenduqu'un
tel systeme est loin d'Qtre parfait, rnais ilest relativernentfaisable et effectif, et sera
am&lior&progressivement au fur et          mesure de la dlsponibllite des rbsultats de
I'enquetepopulationet de la revue des dbpenses des menages. Le Gouvernernent
dbveloppera, en collaboration avec la Banque mondiale, un plan d'action pour la
mise en place et I'utillsationfuture de ce systbrne pour le transfert d'assistancevers
les pauvres.

            IV.     Besoinsdo Financementet Gestiondu Programme

       Besoinsdeflnancement

33.    L'urgence et la gravite de la crise n'ont pas laisse de choix au Gouvemernent
pour intewenlr dans I'irnm&Jiat, en particuller A travers la suppression de la TIC et

de 4 millions de dollars US qu'il faut combler. Les mesures complhentaires et
les autres mesures mentionnbs ci-dessus irnpliquantun manque a gagner de prks
necessaires que le Gouvemement a identie et qui doivent &re entreprises
necessttentun financement estime & 3 millions de dollars US, qui daivent&e aussi
urgernrnent identifides et mobilis&esau cours des six mois prochains. C'est a cet
effet que le Gouvernernent compte sur le soutien de la Banque Mondiale pour un
soutien budghtaire sous forme de don pour le financement de ce programme
d'urgence.

        Retabliret Maintenlr uneStabiliteMacro4conomiqueSoutonable

34.    Le Gouvemement rbalise I'arnpleur des retornbees macroeconomiquesde la
hausse des prix alimentaires et bnergbtiquea et leurs risques de ddstabilisation
economlque. Les manlfestationspremieres de ces effets se font dejh sentir sur le
niveaugeneral des prix, la stabilitbbudgetakeet celle de la balancedes paiements,
Pksewer les progrb kails8s en terne de stabllisation rnacrobconomique,acquise
durant la dernibre dbcennie aux prix de grands sacrifices est primordial,et protaer
ies effets positifs qu'ils commencent ti donner en terme de regain de croissancefait
partiedes pnoritdsdu Gouvemement.

35.    Les plus rbcentes rrSvisions du cadre macrobconomiqueont &e sntreprisesA
la fin du mois de mars 2006 avec le FMI. Les effets de la hausse des prix
allrnentalresetd'bnergiequi$'endont d&geqCss t situent cornme suit :
                                             7




                                                 25

Le taUX &inflation a &t&eSthr! initialement 8.1%. Cependant I'actualisation de la
hausse soutenua des prix alirnentalreset dnergbtiques les plus rbcentesimpliquerait
qu'il est bien sousestimb. Malgrb les mesures tarifaires qui viennent &&re
entreprleeset qui doivent contenir cette hausse, elle demeuremitestimbe B pres de
8% pour 2008. Pour ce qui est du budget de I'Etat, I'exemption fiacale sur les

dollars US. Les autres d6penses suppYmentaires liees B I'blargissement de I'appui
produitsalim2ntaiteS (TIC) impliqueraituneperte de revenueestimee a 4 millionsde

alimentaire et de I'assisbnce sociale sont estimees ;5 3 millions de dollars US. Par
cons8quent, le dMnctt budgetaim qui btait estirnb inltialement a 2,6% du PIB est
meintenantestimba atteindre 3,3%du FIB.

36.    Le Gouvernement est en train de reviser le cadrage macro6conorniqueen
collaborationavec le FondsMonMaireInternationalP ia lurnikredes d6vefoppements
les plus recents des prix alirnentaires Bnergbtlques et du prix du dollar. Le
Gouvernement entend engager des discussions eutour d'un programme d'une
Facilitepour la reduction de la pauvrete et la crolssance(FRPC) avec les autorites
du FMI durant le mots de juin dans le but de sa presentation au Conseil du FMI
dumnt le mois de septembre 2008. Durant ce processus, des me6ure.setructurelles
seraient con]ointement ldentift&espour assurer le r6tablissementdune stabilitb plus
soutenabledes balancesfiscalos,depaiementainsiquede la dette publique.

Micanismeade coordinauonet de suivi du Projet

37.    La mise en euvre du Programme est piac6e sous I'autorith du Ministre de
I'Economie, des Finances et de la Pianincation - Charge  de la Privatisationen Btroite
collaboration avec le Secrbtaire dEtat a Is Solidarite et de la responsabilitd des
services de I'Etat concem6s. Concernant le suivi, le dispositif comprend I'Agence
Djiboutienne du Dbveloppement Social (ADDS) qui assurera le coordlnatlon et la
supervision des activitbs des deux composantes du Projet et rendra compte
r&guli&rementau Ministre de I'Economieet des Finances et au Secrbtaired'Etat 21 la
Solidaritb de I'btat d'exbcution du Projet. Ces rapports, valid& par les autoritks.
serontcommuniqu6




                                         8




                                             26

.a
Y

Ied
 s
 8
 a
5Q)


LI
 0
 m
 a

 L
z:
 M
 Q)



 h

 P
I


a9
 L
 0
 a
 0

5E
 Q)




 0
 m
.I
.w
 m
 L
 0

e
B

E,
 Q)


4-r
 0
Yu
 ed


.I        2
5Q)    .3
        $ w
YQ)     r.2
 d
 M
.I
.t:
 B
 0
c)

.I
 m
 $
.w
Yu
*m
 Q)
%
I
 ed
 L
 Q)
 *
 0
5Q)




 Q)
 ..*
.I
Y
gu
 Q)

I

ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE(May 20,2008)




                 29

30

                ANNEX 4: THE INITIATIVE FOR SOCIALDEVELOPMENT (INDS)


The National Initiative for Social Development (INDS) of Djibouti is the follow up strategy of the PRSP
o f 2004-2006. The interim strategic document for the years 2007-2011 defines the medium-term policy
objectives o f the government as being: (1) reducing extreme and relative poverty, (2) raising the annual
growth average hgher than 7%, (3) raising the gross enrollment rate inprimary and secondary education
while reducing geographic and gender disparities, and (4) reducing infant and maternal mortality rates
significantly.

The estimated cost for the implementation of the INDS i s estimated at about $650 millionUSD, o f which
more than 88% has been secured through grants and loans from bilateral and multi-lateral donors. A more
accurate figure o f the exact costs can be presented when a MTEF i s prepared for the INDS. The rest i s
expected be covered by the revenues from FDI attraction and further financing from the international
community. Development partners are also needed for technical assistance for the implementation o f the
strategy.

To reach these objectives the I N D S strategy rests on four mainpillars.

The first pillar seeks to strengthen the country's competitiveness and to create conditions conducive to a
strong and sustainable economic growth. The basis o f these ambitious objectives i s a growing flux o f
FDI, expected to reach the unprecedented average of 40% between 2006 and 2011, in addition to
increasing revenues from transit activities. These objectives would bereached through:

     (i)     The pursuit of fiscal prudence and overall macroeconomic stability by adopting policies for
             growth acceleration, deficit containment and financial sector empowerment; in addition to
             increasing investments insocial sectors.

     (ii)    The implementation of structural reforms to attract private investment, includingthe revision
             o f the legal andjudicial fi-amework, the reduction o f production costs, the privatization o f the
             electricity sector, and the promotion o f alternative energy usage.

     (iii)   The promotion o f Djibouti as a competitive economic and financial hub. This can be reached
            by intensifying investments in the development o f ICT, the port, the railway, air transport,
             and other infrastructure sectors (water, energy.. .). Additionally, more attention would be
             gven to the reduction in the costs o f production factors through improved efficiency of
             service provision.

     (iv)   The diversification o f the sources o f growth by promoting tourism and investing in its
             infrastructure, in addition to supporting the mining, agriculture, cattle-raising and fishing
             industries.

The second pillar aims to accelerate the development o f human resources through improving access to
basic public services. Inparticular, it aims at:

     (i)    Improving access to and quality o f education, through reducingdisparities and drop-out rates,
            improving management o f the sector and relying on partnerships. This approach covers all
            levels of formal education in addition to informal and literacy education. Furthermore, the
             strategy aims at raising school capacity, encouraging innovative solutions and strengthening
            private education.

     (ii)   Improving the coverage and quality o f health care, by improving physical and financial
             access to health services. The approach envisions introducing a newregulatory framework for
            the health sector, a reimbursement system, primary care clinics in rural areas, ambulant



                                                      31

           sanitation teams for urban areas and a better communication system. The strategy also
           acknowledges the importance o f awarenessraising, prevention and health education.
    (iii) Reducingunemploymentthroughmeasuressuchasdevelopinghigh-laborintensiveactivities
           inview ofexpectedincrease ofFDI; developing self-employment programsthrough financial
           support; supporting SMEs through an assistance unit and access to financing; implementing
           the micro-finance strategy adopted in 2006; capacity building, job training, and formation
           employment-coordination. Additionally, the strategy envisions the creation o f a National
           Employment Agency with autonomous administrative and financial resources and
           capabilities.
    (14     Settingup social safety nets for the most vulnerable segments o fthe population. On this level
           the strategy focuses on the institutional level by merging the National Pension Fundwith the
            Social Protection Organization to create the National Social Security Fund.

    (VI    Implementing a national gender strategy. The strategy highlights the importance of
           implementing gender favorable laws, such as the Family Code, that impose a quota for
           women inthe administration, appointed and elected positions. It also places much importance
           on awareness raising and education for women and the media to improve the standing o f
           women insociety. Additionally, it proposes legislation that would favor women economically
            such as special micro-finance and savings funds for women.

    (vi>   Implementingyouth empowerment strategy. This strategy encourages informal education and
           vocational training to capitalize on strengths of the youths. It also envisions the development
           o f health awareness programs for youth on HIV/AIDS, drugs and tobacco abuse and
           reproductive health. The approach also promotes youth (namely female) participation in
           decision malung and youth self-employment.

    (vii)  Adopting a water strategy that addresses water shortages by conducting studies on the
           mobilization o f surface waters and other vital issues such as dambuildingand water resource
           management.

    (viii) Promoting access to energy and ICT. This component highlightsthe need to make energy and
           ICT accessible not only to enterprises but the population in general. It also highlights the
           needto access alternative energy sources depending on the context.

The third pillar focuses on local development, preservation o f the natural environment. This will be
achieved through investments inwater and sanitation services inpoor neighborhoods located inrural and
urban areas o f the country. It also includes poverty reduction programs targeting the most poor and
vulnerable.

    (i)    On the urban level, the strategy aims at re-planningprecariousneighborhoods and integrating
           them inthe city. It also envisions the strengthening o f regional urban centers to develop cities
           that would absorb some the migratory pressure on the capital. It also covers plans to improve
           sanitation and sewage systems and access to decent habitat. The strategy also seeks to
           improve regulatory framework through clear distribution o f roles and partnershps with civil
            society and local communities.

    (ii)   On the rural development level, the strategy denotes measures that support the development
           o f sustainable agriculture, cattle-raising and fishing industries. It also envisions improving
           access to services and resources while protecting naturalresources and the environment.




                                                     32

    (iii) On the level o f the environment and the preservation o f natural resources, the strategy seeks
          to develop and update an integratednational strategy that takes into consideration all aspects
          o fthe environmental challenge whether, rural, urban, marine, or atmospheric.

    (iv)  As for the poverty reduction measures for the most vulnerable, the strategy aims at ensuring
          access to basic services to most vulnerable, creating work and revenue activities in their
          spheres and creating efficient social safety nets for them. This approach will be tailored to the
          needs o f the beneficiaries in rural or urban areas. Examples include, adopting multi-level
          classes to adapt to the needs o f students, literacy programs, and access to decent habitat using
          localmaterials and labor.

          In rural areas, these targeted programs, will support cooperative establishment, land
          management, commercialization o f products and access to water, with special attention given
          to women and families. Inurban areas, these programs will focus on professional training in
          handicrafts and other urban professions such as plumbing and masonry. As for the most
          vulnerable and poor, these programs mainly target street children, nomads andrefugees. They
          aim at providingthemwith legal protection, education, healthcare, food, and drinlungwater.

The fourth pillar seeks to improve democratic governance, public sector management and capacity
building.This canbe achieved through:

          Buildingon and expandingdemocratic achievements byimprovingthe electoral law allowing
          more opposition MPs to be represented inthe parliament, encouraging an atmosphere o f rich
          debate which strengthens institutions, and increasing government accountability.

          Legal andjudicial reform applied to the judiciary, the Ministry o fjustice, the legal texts and
          framework and the formation system o fjudges andjudicial workers.

          Civil service reform through institutional reforms o f the different public agencies and
          improving the efficiency and effectiveness o f the cadres through improving the Human
          Resource Management systems.
          Improving the public resource management systems by adopting an MTEF and a MTBF,
          reviewing the procurement code, and strengthening control agencies such as the Inspector
          General and the Court o f Accounts.

          Strengthening decentralization through devolving human and financial resources towards
          localities, building their capacities, and the establishment o f a national commission for
          decentralization.

          Systematizing communication and participation as a means to improve governance,
          accountability and efficiency.

          Setting up a monitoring and evaluation system of performance on poverty reduction,
          macroeconomic objectives, and other priorities of the strategy. The monitoringand evaluation
          system i s one o fthe aspects identified by the document as requiring technical assistance from
          development partners.




                                                    33

                                         ANNEX 5: BUDGETLAW


04/29/2008- The Head ofthe State heldthe thirteenth(13e)Meetingof the Councilof Ministers

Mr.Isma3Omar GuellehHeadofthe Stateandthe Government, chairedtoday Tuesday the 13thMeeting
o f the Council o f Ministers during which was examined and approved an important draft additional
budget law providing, inparticular, for the exemption from payment of the Domestic Consumption Tax
(DTC) on some basic food items. The Government decided to suppress the Consumption Tax Rate for
some basic food items, such as: rice, powder milknot infantile, cooking oil, wheat flour and sugar. With
this tremendously courageous measurement, the State gives up the substantial perception on one part of
its receipts generated by the DTC to relieve the Djiboutianpopulation.

Ministryof Economy,FinanceandPlanning,incharge ofPrivatization

lo) additional budget law providing, inparticular, for the exemption from payment of the
     Draft
Consumption Tax Rate on some basic food items.

The draft budget law aims to modify the provisions o f the Law providing estimated budget o f the State
for 2008; inparticular, the ConsumptionTax Rate o fbasic food items.

Thus, the Consumption Tax Rate is reduced from eighth percent (8%) to zero percent (0%) for the basic
food items such as rice, powder milknot infantile, cooking oil, wheat flour and sugar.

The price o f these basic food items has been astonishingly increased these past months on the national
market which resultedina degradation o f the purchase power o f the Djiboutianhouseholds.

For this purpose, the Council of Ministers discussed on several occasions on the rising o f the price of
these food items and on the factors to attenuate the impact on the vulnerable populations.

To mitigate this situation, the government decided to implement some actions, o f which in particular,
determination o f the values reprimands o f these products with an endeavor o f reducing their price to
suitable levels and o f talung care o f the respect o f the limitations of approach o f commercial margins by
the installation o f a contingent of price control.

To more strengthen these actions, the government decided to give up the substantial perception on one
part o f the revenue generatedby the Consumption Taxes Rate on these products.

Moreover, the government will implement a large action plan in order to reduce the rising inprice o f the
basic food items by the increase o f strategic stocks, the diversification o f the sources o f supply and the
setting work o f a marketing policy inorder to apply the valuable trade agreements and to ensure a regular
provision.

The effectiveness o f this draft budget law will enhance the actions already taken by the government and
will aim to reduce the inflationary effectso fthe price ofthe basic food items onthe international market
and to mitigate the impact o f drought by o f the most vulnerable households




                                                        34

                   ANNEX 6: EXPANDING SOCIAL ASSISTANCEPROGRAMS


Several social assistance programs exist in Djibouti that are possible candidates for scale up activities in
efficient andrapiddistribution o f aid. Brief descriptions o f a sample of such programs are notedbelow.

Food Assistance to Vulnerable Groups: Inrural areas, the World FoodProgram (WFP) provides food
relief to rural populations based on seasonal vulnerability and food insecurity by livelihood zones. The
program provides emergency food rations during the lean season, furnishes aid to refugees, and
implements food-for-assets and food-for-work programs. The main governmental operational partner i s
the Office ofNational Assistance for Refugees and Disaster Victims (ONARS).

Inurban areas, local NGO's such as Union Nationale des Femmes Djiboutiennes (UNFD) and AI Biri
provide some assistance with the distribution o f food and basic needs in collaboration with a network o f
local coordinators.

School Feeding Program: The Food for Education program in Rural Djibouti provides two meals per
day for all children in rural primary schools and additional take-home rations for girls in grades 3 to 5
who attend school at least 80% o f school days. These programs have created positive incentives for poor
families to send their children, in particular girls, to school. The number o f beneficiaries i s expected to
increase from 12,00O/year in2008 to 18,00O/year in2012. UNICEF has initiated a campaign o f vitamin A
supplementation, and intends to introduce de-worming for school children. In conjunction with
government and UNpartners, wells are being constructed at schools for the benefit o f children as well as
the communities.

Community Development Programs/ Access to Basic Services: The government launched and tasked
the Agence Djiboutienne de Developpement Social (ADDS, which was formed from ADETIP and FSU)
to implement the national social development strategy (INDS), which aims to create jobs, enhance income
generating opportunities, improve access to basic services, and strengthen governance. ADDS targets
poor areas in Djibouti-ville, including Balbala and its peripheries, old quarters o f the capital, and interior
regions. For example, inthe P.K.12 project on the outslurts o f Djibouti-ville, the community development
project developed water resources, provided access to electricity, constructed a health clinic, and
organized a public market, and installed a police station. In addition, ADDS provides microfinance and
vocational training programs.




                                                      35

             Institutional capacity for expanding social assistance and related programs exists
Potential Prograins for     'I'argctGroup          Beneficiaries
Scaling t :p
Scboot fcedirig prograin    Primary school         ?'he schoolfeeding programprovides two mealsper day
                            children              for over 12,000 primary schoolstudentsinm a 1axeas,
                                                   creating positive incentive for poor Familiesto sendtheir
                                                   children to school.       ansion of the programto the
                                                   poorest quarters ofurbanareas may increase beneficiaries
                                                   to 18,000 by 2012.

Fuod'voucherlcrtsh fbr      unemployed but         By distributing food in exchange for work on public
work                        able bodied working    works projects stich as \veil construction, approximately
                            age population         28.000 poor unemployed individuals who arc willing to
                                                   work for food rations are likely to be self-selected into
                                                   these proprains. Also, public assets that are created from
                                                   thcsc proprains can serw an entire community. By
                                                   expanding these projects to urbanareas. over 50,000
                                                   beneficiaries can be reached.

Emergency food aid          Nomadic pastoralists   Currently SS,000 ruralpoor receive food aid due to the
during lean season(or       and msalpoor           prolonged drought. It is expectedthat this number may
prolonged drought)                                 increaseto 70,000 or more inthe leanseason this siimer.

Maternal-child health       Pregnantwomen,         Pregnant or lactating mothers andchildrenunder the age
                            children 0-5 years     offive at riskof malnoisisbment.

FishenesPrograms            Poor populationin      The fisheries project a i m at increasing fish-output and
                            coastal region; by     generating employment by upgrading small-scale fishing
                            extension, the poor in operations. I60fishemen were trained over the last year
                            other regions          inimprovedmodernfishingtechniquesandwillbe
                                                   equippedwith larger boatsandfishingequipment to scale
                                                   uptheir operations. Assuming that the creation of'two
                                                   additionaljobs is enabledby the Fisheries Program for
                                                   each fisherman karned, 1,080 households(7,560
                                                   individuals) maybenefit from this initiative. Inaddition,
                                                   there i s an indirect effect to the larger poor population in
                                                   Djiboutibecausethe poor would be able to purchase
                                                   nutritious food to affordableprices,

Water wclldpumps&           Nomadic pastorallst5
emergency distribution      and rur31
of liw5tock feed inrural    communities
arcas (the latter does not
exlst but can easily be
deploycd through WFP)




                                                     36

                                 ANNEX 7: STATEMENT OFLOANSAND CREDITS
          -
                                                                                                           Differencebetween
                                                                                                           expectedand actual
                                                          OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                       disbursements

Project ID-FY   Purpose                                 IBRD      IDA      SF       GEF   Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Fm.Rev'd

PO88876    2008 DJ-URBANPOVERTY REDUCTION                 0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00   0.00 I  3.10 I  0.00       0.00
                PROGRAM
PO86379    2006 DJ-POWERACCESS AND                        0.00     7.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    6.03    3.64       0.00
                DIVERSIFICATION
PO86994    2006 DJ-SecondSchool Access and                0.00     10.00    0.00     0.00   0.00    6.70    3.43       0.00
                Improvement
PO89968    2005 DJ-FLOOD EMERGENCY                        0.00     6.46     0.00     0.00   0.00    2.18   -0.08        1.53
                REHABILITATION
PO73603    2003 DJ-HN/AIDS, Malaria and TB Control        0.00     12.00    0.00     0.00   0.00    0.12   -1.01       0.00

PO71062    2002 DJ-Health Sector DevelopmentProject       0.00     15.00    0.00     0.00   0.00    3.47    0.36       0.00

                                                 Total:- -0.00    53.46     0.00     0.00   0.00   21.60    6.34        1.53




                                                               37

                   ANNEX 8: RELEVANTDONOROPERATIONSINDJIBOUTI
                                                                                      value
Donor                               PROJECTNAME                                        ($US
                                                                                      million)

       Djibouti ProtractedKelicfand Recovery Opttatton "Food A&tance        to             14.9
       Vulneratdc Group?and Kcfugees"

 WFP   Food for Education inRuralDjibouti                                            I      429




       Child Survival and development

UNICEF          Water and sanitation                                                            (2008 -2012)
                Health andNutrition
       Chddprotection
       Support for combating drought                                                            (2008 -2012)
UNDP   Support for combating diversification                                                    (2008 -2012)
       Program for the mobilization o f surface water and sustainable land management           (2008 -2012)

USAID  Child survival and Healthprogram                                                         (2008 -2009)

 AFD   Urban Development: basic infrastructure and services (e.g. PK12 project with             (2006-2009)
       ADDS)

 EU




                                                        38

                                       ANNEX 9: COUNTRYAT GLANCE
                                                              ha. East   Cawer.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            &North middte.                      " " --                  _I




                                                               Africa   incame      Development diamond'

2006
PopiJt&>ri mid-year(millions)                                       311    2276
GNIpercapita(Atissmethod,US$)                                     2,481    2 037                Lifeexpectancy

GNI[Atlas nretlmd,US$hillioiis)                                    771                                 T
                                                                           4 6%
                                                                                                                           I
Average annual growth, 2000*08
Populationt4$                                            2 0        l a      09
laborforce(%t                                            2 3        35        14                                     Gross
                                                                                                             _i pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 2000-06)
Poverly (%oipapulalionhelaKnationalpoverfy/ine)
Urbanpopulation( ~ ~ ~ ~ o [ a ~ ~ p u / a t i o n ~      87        57        47
U eexpectencyatbirthipam)                                 53        70        71
tiifantmotialityfper lOOQ/iveltrrihs)                     88        43        31
Childmalnutrition(%of chf/drenunder5/                     27         r j       u
AcceSs to art irnprov& watersource f    ~  ~   ~   ~   ~ ~73 /   e  90
                                                                    ~   ~  r  81) ~                                        I
Literacyf%nfrwpulaiionage %+I                                       73        89
Gmss primaryenrollment [%af schOobagepoput8fionj          40        133       It3     -Dlibouti
   Male                                                   44        D6        IT7           Lowr-middle-income group
   Female                                                  36       99        1%

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1986     1996      2005    2006                           "
                                                                                    iconomic ratios'
ODP(LIS$ I)l//lons)                                      0 49      0 71     0 76
GrosscapitallormatirrniGDP                                 91      243
t m f t s of goodsandservicesfGDP                        38s       36 5                              Trade

Grossdomestic savingsiGDP                                -28        7 3
GrossnationalsavingslGDP                                  117      205                                  T

Curretitaccount balanCefGDP                               26        4 l      4 4
InterestpayrnentsiGDP                                     06        05              Domestic                      Capital
                                                                                    savings                       formation
Totaldebt!GDP                                            599       598
Totaldebt serviceiexpofts                                 56        69
Presentvalueof debtfGDP                                            43fi                                 1

Presentvaluaof debtkxpons                                          w2
                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                     1966-98 1996-06    2005      2006 2006-IO
(aweregeannuaf@rowfh,l
GOP                                      -32       21     3 2       4 8                -      Dlihoufi
GDPper capita                            -48     -04       14       32                 __ - Lower-middleincomegroup
Ew&fts of goadsand5ervlces               -89       15      21



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY


                                                1986    1996      2005     2006
 (%of GDP)
Agriculture                                          .    3.6       3.7
 Industry                                            ..   25.7      72
   Manufacturing                                     ..   2.9       2.7
 Sewices                                             ..  60.7       79.1

 Householdfinal consumption expenditure              ..  72.7      65.0
 Generalgov't final consumptioneqenditure            ,   30.1      27.6
 Importsof goods andservices                         ..  50.4      53.5


                                             1986-96 1996-06      2005     2006
 [averageannualgrouth)
 Agriculture                                      -23     2.4       4.5
 Industry                                         -9.6     3.3      6.6
   Manufacturing                                  -8.1     12       4.0
 Services                                         -19      17       2.0

 Householdfinal consumption expenditure                    0.8      5.9
 Generalgov't finalconsumption expenditure                 16       -3.9
 Grosscapitalformation                           -14 6    0.3       3.5                    -Exports        .-+4mports
 importsof goods andservices                     -114      2.1      2.0


 Note 2006 data arepreliminaryestirnates
 This tablewas producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomics LDB database
 'Thediamonds showfourkeyindicators inthecountry(inbo1d)comparedwthits income-groupaverage Hdataaremissing,thediamondwll




                                                                39

                                                                                                                       Djibouti
                                                        ~         -
                                                                            ~




PRICES andGOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1986                                  i4
                                                         1996   2005     2006
Domestic prices                                                                       Inflation (%)

(%change)                                                                            4 T

Consumer prices                                 181                                  3
lmpiicit GDP deflator                                      3.5      3 1        19    2

Government finance                                                                   1
(%of GDP,includes currentgrants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                           30.8     37 1                       01   02     03      04     05     06
Current budget balance                                     0.0      96
Overallsurolusldeficit                                    -3.9      0 3

                                                                                  I
TRADE
                                              1986       1996   2005     2006
(US$ millions)                                                                        Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                                         29       40
 Foodand liveanimals
 Coffeeand derivatives                                                               300
 Manufactures
                                                                                                                                   I
Total imports (cif)                                        771     303               1
                                                                                     200

 Food                                                      1)l      92
 Fueland energy                                             ?4      65                100

 Capital goods                                             38       1)8                0

Export price index(2000=r)O)                               117      P O                     00   01  02     03    04    05     06

Import price index(2000=00)                                It3      a 2                        exports        Birrports
Terms of trade (2000=WO)                                   m4        91




BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                              1986       1996   2005        2006
(US$ millions)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods andservices                               B O     264       277
Imports of goods andsewices                               249      386       429
Resource balance                                          -59      -P3       -152

Net income                                                  16      67         91
Net current transfers                                      56       26        28

Current account balance                                     t3      -29       -33

Financing items (net)                                      -P       23        39
Changes in net reserves                                      1        6        -6

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                      77       68         91
Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)               I777       I777     r777       177.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                              1986       1996   2005        2006
(US$ millions)                                                                         :omposition of 2005 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding anddisbursed             P5        296      424
  IBRD                                            0          0        0         0
  IDA                                             11       46       P O       233

Total debt service                                9         P        18
  IBRD                                            0          0        0         0
  IDA                                             0          1        2         2

Composition of net resource flows
 Official grants                                 51        42       40
 Officialcreditors                               21         25       21
 Private creditors                               -2          0        0
 Foreign direct investment (net inflows)          0          3      23
 Portfolio equity(net inflows)                    0          0        0                             D: 156
World Bank program
 Commitments                                      0          0       I7         0       - IERD
 Disbursements                                    4          1        5         9      \                              E- Eilaterd
                                                                                       )-IDA    D-OthermltlIaterc4    F-Private
 Principal repayments                             0          0        1          1     ;-IMF                          G- Short-terr
  Netflows                                        4          1        3         8
 Interest payments                                0          0        1          1
 Net transfers                                    3          1        2         7


Note:This table was producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database.                                                  9/28/07




                                                               40

      ADDITIONALANNEX: UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATIONOFLETTER OFDELOPMENT
                                                   POLICY


                                         To Mr. Robert ZOELLICK
                                      President of the World Bank Group
                                            WASHINGTON D.C.

                              DevelopmentPolicyLetter ofthe Government

                                                 2008 2011
                                                       -
I. Introduction

1.       The Republic ofDjibouti is facing an acute crisis due to the exceptional oil and food prices global
hike. This crisis i s accentuated by the country's complete reliance on its imports to cover its national
consumptionneeds for these products. This new crisis worsens a situation o f extreme poverty exacerbated
by the presence of a high number of refugees from conflict areas in the Horn of Africa and further
threatens the country's recent achievements in term o f macroeconomic, social, political and institutional
stability resulting from the Government efforts over the past years. To mitigate the consequences o f this
crisis, the Government i s implementing an action plan within the framework o f its National Initiative for
Social Development (INDS      - inFrench). Nevertheless, the Government's response to thisnew challenge
willnecessitate additional assistancesupport from the internationalcommunity to achieve its objectives.

         Context

2.       The Republic of Djibouti i s located inthe Horn o f Africa at the southern end o f the Red Sea. The
country population i s estimated at about 750.000. Since its independence, on June 27, 1977, Djibouti has
suffered the consequences o f sub-regional conflicts and various natural disasters (drought, food shortage)
as well as the economic and social pressures linked to the resulting flow of refugees. Enjoying an
exceptional stability, the country's economic and social development was severely disturbed by these
events.

3.       Despite its relatively high absolute per capita income o f US$1,040, Djibouti still has extremely
highpoverty indicators: while 80% of the population lives inDjibouti-Ville, 69.3% of its inhabitants live
under the relative poverty line (data from the 2002 poverty indicator survey). Three-fourths o f the
population located in the western side o f the wade (Balbala, PK12) lives with less than three (3) dollars
per day.


4.       Inadditionto the these preoccupying monetary aspects ofthe poverty situation, urbanpoverty in
Djibouti-Ville i s characterized by very highrates o f informal habitat (slums), low access to basic public
services (water, electricity, sanitation, garbage collection, access roads), alarming health indicators (two
(2) doctors per thousand average, infant and maternal morbidity, HIV/AIDS prevalence), improving yet
low education system indicators (66.6% gross enrollment rate inprimary education, highrate o f women
illiteracy: 51.5%, which produces an unskilledlabor force facing unemployment risks :43.5%).


5.       Since 1996, the government o f the Republic o f Djibouti has undertaken an economic and social
reform starting with support from the IMF under a stand-by arrangement (1996-98) followed by a three-
year arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (1999-2002). During these years,
Djibouti made impressive and encouraging progress in reducing macroeconomic imbalances and



                                                       41

restructuring its economy: (i)  stabilize its inflation rate at 2%; (ii)
                                                                      improve budget situation; (iii) control
public expenditures through wage billreduction; and(iv) improve its fiscal policy.

6.      Despite, these efforts, economic growth was modest and real per capita growth remained
negative. The most vulnerable Djiboutian households are still affected by abject poverty as shown inthe
results of the July 2002 survey (EDAM-2) which determined that 45.2% o f the population i s living under
poverty line. The poverty reduction issue, at the heart o f all economic and social development policy, can
only be solved in a context o f a pro-poor growth which will ensure an improved access to basic social
services. That is the development objective o f Djibouti's full PRSP endorsed by the Boards o f the World
Bank andthe IMFinJune 2004.

7.       The government o f Djibouti prepared an interim economic reform strategy agreements for the
2004-2005 period, and 2006 which were supported by the IMF Staff-Monitored Program (SMP) to
achieve the structural reforms and key structural benchmarks not met under the first Reduction of Poverty
Facility for the period 1999-2003. The goal i s to establish good economic policy track record to reach a
medium-termreformstrategy program supported by apotentialnew PRGFarrangement.


8.       Progressive implementation o f structural reforms continued. Quantitative fiscal targets were
largely met under the SMP. Efforts were made to promote macro-economic stability and strengthen
economic growth by reforming the legal framework to allow the private sector to take part in the
management o f public enterprises.

9.       The review o f the three-year implementation completion o f the PRSP (2004-2007) has
highlighted some significant progress as well as recurrent weaknesses whch continue to constrain the
country development efforts. Significant improvements were made in a number o f key areas: economic
growth accelerated from an annual average o f 3.7% during the 2004-2006 period to 4,8% in 2006 and
5.3% in2007; primary school enrollment increased significantly (66.2% in2006), gender disparities were
almost eradicated (Gender Parity Index at 0.98) and 15 to 24 years old women's literacy rate improved
(47.5%). These achievements can be attributed to the implementation o f priority measures in social
sectors (Health, Education, Gender), economic growth support actions and macro-economic framework
stability consolidation.

10.      The extremely low level o f social indicators remains Djibouti's most compelling development
challenge. These indicators reflect the fact that segments o f the population continue to live in extremely
precarious conditions.

11.      Based on this assessment, the President o f the Republic launched the National Strategy for Social
Development (INDS) in January 2007. This ambitious program constitutes in the implementation o f
integratedmeasures within the framework o f a global project inwhich all dimensions are completing each
other and creating synergies. Its priority objectives are the following: (i)
                                                                           improvement o f access to quality
basic services, (ii)restructuring o f economic production fi-amework in order to generate more
employment, (ii)  assistance to the most vulnerable segments o f the society. The effective implementation
o f the INDS requires a strong and continued commitment to principles o f good political, social,
economical and financial governance. The I N D S i s now considered the reference framework for all
development efforts inthe country.

        Djibouti'spotential

12.      Although poorly endowed in natural resources, the Republic o f Djibouti has many important
assets to support its economic growth. The country benefits from a liberal economic system which
translates into a highlevel o f openness: open trade system, free convertibility o f Djibouti Franc pegged to

                                                        42

the U S dollar, a modem banhng system, free capitals movement, freedom to create a business without
requiring a local sponsor. The country also benefits from very efficient transport and telecommunication
networks which constitute a clear regional competitive advantage.

13.     However, to fully benefit from these opportunities, the country has to keep and consolidate a
social, political and economical climate favorable to private sector development and foreign capital flows.
This objective requires responses to deep structural constraints which weigh heavily on Djibouti's
competitiveness: (i)  high wage rates in the public and private sector; (ii) cost of public services
                                                                                 high
(water electricity phone) and (iii)under slulled labor force.

14.     Djibouti's main challenge i s to create conditions that will lead to increasedprivate investment and
human capital accumulation and in turn increase its competitiveness. These conditions can only be
reached through a stable macro-economic and fiscal framework based on an efficientheasonable cost
public administration, efficient markets (flexible labor market, shlled labor, strong capital markets,
efficient infrastructure) as well as a legal and institutional framework which guarantees the adequate
application andpredictability o f laws andrules.

        Growth and poverty reduction objectives

15.     The Government reaffirmed its willingness to mobilize its resources to reach the MDGs by 2015
as stated in the I N D S objectives. All public policy i s now guided by this vision. In the medium term
(2011): the main targets are the following: (i)    reduction o f extreme poverty and relative poverty; (ii)
increase o f economic annual growthrate to 7%; (iii) primary school enrollment increase to 83% for
                                                       gross
primary school and 61% for secondary school, while reducing gender and geographical disparities, and
(iv) infant and under-five mortality reduced by 68%0 and 80%0 respectively and maternal mortality
reducedto 400 per 100,000 live births.

16.      The success o f the INDS will require a strong and continued involvement o f all development
stakeholders (administration, elected officials, civil society, private sector, populations, donors) and their
mobilizationinthe context o f a new partnership to renew the economic and social development efforts o f
the country. In particular a significant increase in the volume o f development aid, both in terms o f
technical and financial assistance, provided by the donors community will berequired.

11.      Global inflation impact on Djibouti

17.      Like other countries on the continent Djibouti i s affected heavily the consequences o f the global
basic food prices hike and the inflationary pressure from ever higher oil prices. This "imported" inflation
has particularly strong effects on the Djibouti economy because o f its lack o f natural resources and its
complete dependence on imports for the two affectedhndo f commodities.

18.      Djibouti i s an importing country with an open trade system; therefore the impact o f the global
prices hike on the national market i s direct and immediate. This impact i s even catalyzed by the structure
o f the market for the affected commodities which i s both compartmented and monopolistic. As a
consequence, the price o f rice more than doubled between February 2006 and March 20008. Consumer
prices index increase reached 8.1% in2007 compared to 3.4% in 2006. This inflationary trend i s mostly
drivenbyhighcosts of fuel andbasic food commodities.

19.      Regarding the energy sector, Djibouti i s completely dependent on oil for the hnctioning o f its
thermal plants. As a consequence the inflationary pressure from high oil prices, made the situation o f the
public utility (Electricit6 de Djibouti - EDD) extremely preoccupying. The intervention o f the


                                                     43

Government to avoid rising even further the energy prices (which already increased in 2005 and 2007)
seem to be the only possible alternative. Additionally, it i s important to note that the state i s also
subsidizing the fuel cost at the pump and the burning oil depriving it o f the fiscal income from these
importations. A major preoccupation o f the government i s to ensure social stability (fuel is usedfor public
transportation and taxi, burningoil i s used for the domestic needs o f the poorest households) often to the
detriment o f its fiscal and macro-economic objectives. This macro-economic instability and the potential
consequences on the country's cash flow situation could substantially worsen if the oil and food prices
price levels are not decreasing.

20.     Additionally the already deteriorating situation was accentuated by the prolonged and severe
drought conditions which have particularly affected the nomads and their livestock. The government
called on the international community and the Djiboutian solidarity which created an unprecedented
social mobilization orchestrated by the Djibouti Women's Union. Yet, in the field, WFP, which i s also
addressing the Somalia refugees issue, will not be able to keep maintain its school feeding program
without additional international support.

        Emergencymeasuresundertaken by the Government

21.     To face the food prices hike crisis, the Government has already taken a series o f emergency
measures:


        (1)       The first measure, w h c h had a direct impact on the Djiboutian household situation, was
                  the elimination o f the consumption tax rate (TIC - TaxeInte`rieure de Consommation) on
                  five basic food items: rice, sugar, cooking oil, wheat flour and powder milk.The tax rate
                  was reduced from 8% to 0% which mightresult ina revenue loss inthe order o f US$4.0
                  million annually. Even if this measure i s commendable, the fiscal loss i s very large for
                  the budget which must also support other crucial social expenditures.

        (ii) Thesecondmeasureisasensibilizationandcontrolcampaigntoensurethattheruleson
                  commercial margins limitations for commodities are respected and applied byresellers. A
                  task force has been constituted jointly with representatives from the Trade, Customs,
                  Taxes (finance) and Interior Ministries. Authorities have also initiated a policy o f
                  diversifying supply sources to secure the sources for Djiboutian importers and
                  encouraging joint bulk purchases to benefit from potential economies o f scale. Access to
                  financial credit and other financing facilities i s also encouraged for Djiboutian importers.

        (iii) Thethirdmeasureconsistedinthebanningofallre-exportationoffoodcommodities
                  intended for sale on the Djiboutianmarket. Because of the size o f the national market and
                  the food shortage projections, Djiboutian importers have been tempted to re-export to
                  neighboring countries (Ethiopia, Somalia) where they could sell their products at a much
                  higher price. Merchandise in transit i s exempt from this measure which only intends to
                  preventany shortage onthe localmarket.

22.     Development Agencies (WFP, EU, UNICEF,            ...)have    also been implementing actions aimed at
reducing the impact of the food crisis on certain segments o f the population, but with scanty means.

        Short-term actions, dependingon financing availability

23.     The authorities are conscious that these emergency measures will have a limited impact and will
not solve the food crisis situation which i s heavily compromising the country's economic and social


                                                      44

development. In this regard, the Government has requested World Bank's assistance, and the latter has
reacted immediately by sending an appraisal mission, with the objective o f identifying specific and
operational measures which could be taken rather quickly to attenuate the impact o f the food crisis on the
poor and vulnerable populations.

24.      The Government emergency program will aim to minimize the negative impact o f the current
crisis situation and to satisfy the urgentneeds o f the poor and vulnerable populations. The programdesign
and its content were discussed by the Authorities and with the World Bank staff.

25.      The Government program includes the following elements: (i)       strengthening the food aid supply
inrural and urban areas; (ii) water supply and assistanceto fishingdevelopment; and (iii) in
                                rural                                                              putting
place a targeting system for the most affectedpopulations inorder to improve aid transfer.

26.      The first component of the Program aims to strengthen the food aid program inrural and urban
areas. In the context o f food crisis and drought, with their impact on nutritional health, the authorities'
priority i s to constitute a food stock to provide for the pressing needs of the poorest populations living in
both rural and urban areas. [Food would be channeled] preferably through the school feeding programs,
the health centers nutritionprograms, and the village or districts communities. This component would be
executed using the "Foodfor Work" system, and implementedby institutions with the required know-
how and familiarity with this type o f operations, such as ONARS, ADDS, WFP and some NGOs. A total
amount o f US$2 million will be allocated to this component.

27.      The second component aims to improve water supply to rural areas and strengthen the assistance
to fishermen to encourage fishing activity development. Inrural areas, water scarcity i s a severe issue for
nomadic populations and their livestock. Livestock i s likely to disappear if no action i s undertaken to
fight against water scarcity. This component will helprehabilitate existingwells inrural areas and make
them operational by equipping them with solar pumps, to provide water to rural populations and their
cattle, as well as to for food production. The budget for this component, estimated at US$450,000, would
allow rehabilitating ten wells inrural areas. This component will be implementedby the ADDS, given its
howledge o f the rural areas andrural areas stakeholders (ONG).

28.      For the fishing sub-component, the objective will be to empower Djiboutian fishermen by helping
them acquire small fishing vessels and the required equipment through inkindmicro-credit (purchase o f
materials by the ADDS andtotal or partial reimbursementby fishermen).

29.      As regards the Program third component, the Government recognizes its limitation inidentifying
thepoorest populations, as i s the case inthe majorityo fdeveloping countries. The scope ofthe food crisis
and the gravity o f its impact on the neediest Djiboutians highlight this limitation. In particular, this
limitation i s evidenced by the relative incapacity of indirect means to reach the poorest, in comparison
with a targeted and direct transfer towards the neediest. To address this situation, the Government i s
planning to make an effort to urgently develop an effective system o f identification o f the poorest, and to
improve the infrastructure necessary for the system gradual improvement. To this end, the Government
intends to undertake, by September 2008, the identification o f at least 5,000 poorest households. Given
the urgency o f the situation, this targeting can be based on an identification system through Community
commissions inthe poorest areas for example. Obviously, such a system i s far from beingperfect, but it i s
relatively feasible and effective, and will be gradually improved, with the availability o f the results o f
nationalpopulation census and the household survey. The Government will develop, incollaboration with
the World Bank, an action plan for the setting up and the future use of this system for assistance transfer
to the poor.




                                                       45

111.     FinancingRequirementsandProgramManagement

        FinancingNeeds

30.      The urgencyand the gravity of the crisis pushed the Government to intervene inimmediately, in
particular through zeroing the domestic consumption tax (DCT) rate [for 5 basic items] and other
measures mentioned above. As a result, the Government will lose approximately US$4 million per year
on domestic revenues that need to be compensated. In addition, the complimentary measures that the
Government has identified will require an additional financing estimated at US$3 millionthat needs to be
urgently mobilized within the next six months. In this regard, the Government counts on the World
Bank's assistance for a budgetary support inthe form o f a grant to finance this Emergency Program.

         Macro-economicstabilityand sustainability

31.      The Government is conscious o f the macroeconomic impact o f the food and oil prices increase
and its destabilizing risk. The first impact has already been felt trough inflation and the instability o f the
fiscal and the balance o f payments. As a priority, the Government intends to preserve progress realized in
macroeconomic stability over the last decade, and to protect its positive impact in term o f renewal o f
growth.

32.      The most recent revisions of the macroeconomic framework were undertaken at the end o f March
2008 with the collaborationo f the International Monetary Fund.The impact o f the rise o f food and energy
prices on the macro-economic framework has materialized as follows: the inflation rate [for 2007?] was
estimated initially at 6.1 percent. However, taking into account the recent sustained rise o f the food and
energy prices, inflation rate appears to be underestimated. Inspite o f tariff measures that have just been
taken to contain the prices increase, inflation rate i s estimated at 8 percent for 2008. As regards the
Government budget, food products DCT exemption would imply a loss o f domestic revenues estimatedat
US$4 million [per year]. Other additional expenditures related to the expansion o f the food support and
the social assistance are estimated at US$3 million. Therefore, the fiscal deficit which was estimated
initially at 2.6 percent o fthe GDP i s now expectedto reach 3.3 percent of the GDP.

33.      The Government has beenrevising the macroeconomic framework incollaboration with the IMF,
in the light of the most recent developments inthe energy and food prices and US$ depreciation. The
Government intends to engage discussions for a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) with the
IMFinJune 2008, with the aim of IMFBoardpresentationin September 2008. Meanwhile, duringthese
discussions, structural measures to re-establish stable and sustainable fiscal balance, BOP and public debt
will bejointly identified.

         ProjectCoordination andMonitoringMechanisms

34.      The implementation o f the Program i s under the authority o f the Minister o f Economy, Finance
and Planning, in charge o f Privatization, in close cooperation with the Secretary o f State for National
Solidarity, and with sectoral Government institutions. As regards the monitoring o f the program, the
Djibouti Agency for Social Development (ADDS) will coordinate and supervise the activities o f the two
components o f the Program, and will regularly report to both the Minister o f Economy and Finance and
the Secretary o f State to the National Solidarity o f the status o f the Program implementation. Reports,
validated by the Authorities, will be communicated to the World Bank for information.


     (Signed) Ali FarahAssoweh
     Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning, incharge o f Privatization


                                                      46


