Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3130-NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization and Regulatory Reform
Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 30, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3130 NIR 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated August 14, 
1998, describing a program of objectives, principles, policies, and actions designed 
to improve the efficiency and economy of its public sector, including the 
privatization of selected public enterprises (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through Dec. 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“CCPP” means the Borrower’s Cellule de Coordination du Programme de 
Privatisation of MF (as hereinafter defined), established and operating pursuant to 
the Arrêté No. 0200 of April 3, 1997; of the laws of the Borrower; 
(b)
“CFAF” means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, the currency of 
the Borrower; 
(c)
“DGER” means Direction Générale de l’Economie et des Réformes, an 
administrative unit in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finances, in charge of economic 
policy and reform; 
(d)
“MF” means Ministère des Finances, de la Réforme Economique et de la 
Privatisation, the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Finances; 
(e)
“NIGELEC” means Société Nigérienne d’ Electricité, the Borrower’s 
electric power company established and operating pursuant to its registration in the 
registre du commerce de Niamey under No 720 on September 7, 1968; 
(f)
“Loi de Privatisation” means the Borrower’ Ordonnance 96-75 of December 
11, 1996;  
(g)
“Project Implementation Plan” and “PIP” mean the manual referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Annex 4 to this Agreement, containing, inter alia, procedures, 
timetables, and other arrangements for the purpose of implementation of the Project, 
as the plan may be amended from time to time in consultation with the Association, and 
such term includes any schedules to the PIP;
(h)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower in a total amount of $2,000,000 pursuant to 
letters dated July 3, 1996 and July 16, 1996 (PPF Q 001-0 NIR in an amount of $ 
600,000); letters dated December 18, 1997 and December 23, 1997 (PPF Q083-0 NIR in an 
amount of $ 600,000); and letters dated August 6, 1998 and August 7, 1998 (PPF Q083-1 
NIR in an amount of $ 800,000), respectively, between the Borrower and the 
Association;
Page  3
(i)
“SNE” means Société Nationale des Eaux, the Borrower’s water supply 
company established and operating pursuant to Ordonnance No 87/031 of September 24, 
1987; of the laws of the Borrower;
(j)
“SONIDEP” means Société Nigérienne des Produits Pétroliers, the 
Borrower’s petroleum distribution Company, established and operating pursuant to 
Ordonnance No 77/01 of January 21, 1977, of the laws of the Borrower; 
(k)
“SONITEL” means Société Nigérienne des Télécommunications, the Borrower’s 
telecommunication company, established and operating pursuant to its registration in 
the  registre du commerce de Niamey under No. 4090 dated March 20, 1997; and 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
14,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on Mai 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2008 and ending May 1, 2038.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, public management and privatization 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Page  5
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  6
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and
(b)
the Loi de Privatisation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially or adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has recruited the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and
(b)
the Borrower has recruited an accountant in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and has established an 
accounting and a financial management system acceptable to the Association for the 
purposes of the implementation of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances
Ministère des Finances, des Réformes Economiques
et de la Privatisation 
BP 862
NIAMEY 
Niger
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Moussa Dabal 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
  1,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants' services,
  7,200,000
100%
training and audits
(3)
Severance payments
  3,150,000
100% of expenditures
incurred
(4)
Operating costs
    350,000
90%
(5)
Refunding of Project
  1,600,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    600,000
TOTAL
 14,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
Page  8
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)
the term “severance payments” means payments made by the Borrower’s 
public enterprises to their employees separated pursuant to the Borrower’s staff 
retrenchment program referred to in Part A.3 of the Project; and
(d)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of carrying out the Project, including equipment operations, repair and 
maintenance, communications, office supplies, office utilities, travel and 
supervision, salaries and allowances for contractual staff, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil and public service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, unless the Association has approved the Borrower’s staff retrenchment 
program, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for severance payments and consulting firms 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for goods, services of individual 
consultants, training and workshops, seminars and operating costs under contracts not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its 
public enterprises reform and privatization program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Implementation Capacity Building
1.
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of CCPP to coordinate and supervise the 
implementation of the Program and the Project, including the preparation and audit of 
the accounts and financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
through the acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services, and 
training; and
(b)
strengthening the capacity of DGER to carry out public enterprise reform, 
through the acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services, and 
training.
2.
Preparation and implementation of a public information campaign to inform 
potential investors of opportunities offered by the Borrower’s privatization program, 
to build public support for said program, and ensure transparency in its 
implementation, through the provision of technical advisory services.
3.
Preparation and implementation of a program designed to facilitate the 
retrenchment of redundant staff of the Borrower’s public enterprises, through the 
provision of severance payments, training, acquisition of equipment and provision of 
technical advisory services.
Part B:
Infrastructure Sectors
1.
Telecommunications and Postal Sectors
Page  9
Strengthening the capacities of the Borrower for: (a) the privatization of 
SONITEL, through the provision of technical advisory services; (b) the preparation of 
a strategy and a regulatory framework designed to increase competition in, and improve 
the performance and efficiency of, the telecommunication sector, through the provision 
of technical advisory services and training; (c) the carrying out of diagnostic 
studies to identify and evaluate viable options for the sustainability of the postal 
sector, including postal savings institutions; (d) the establishment of a spectrum 
frequency management system, including detailed regulations for the allocation of 
radiospectrum use, and a frequency register, through the acquisition of equipment, and 
the provision of technical advisory services; and (e) the establishment and operation 
of an autonomous authority responsible for the regulation of the Borrower’s 
telecommunications sector, through the acquisition of equipment, provision of 
technical advisory services and 
training.
2.
Water Sector
Provision of technical advisory services for: (a) the recruitment of a private 
sector operator to be responsible for the management of the operations of the SNE; (b) 
the establishment of an appropriate regulatory and institutional framework for the 
sector, including sustainable tariff structure, and cost-recovery mechanisms; and (c) 
the carrying out of technical and financial studies on future investment requirements 
in the sector, and private sector participation in water supply and distribution in 
rural areas.
3.
Power Sector
Provision of technical advisory services and training for: (a) the privatization 
of NIGELEC; (b) the preparation of an appropriate regulatory and institutional 
framework designed to improve the efficiency and performance of the sector; (c) the 
preparation and implementation of pilot programs designed to test delivery mechanisms 
and financing instruments of the provision of electric power in rural areas; and (d) 
the strengthening of the Borrower’s capacities to draft and apply regulations in the 
areas of electricity pricing and environmental protection, and the capacity to assess: 
(i) generation and distribution options, and (ii) alternative distributions 
technologies, including prepayment metering.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  10
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $ 100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 40,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 
50,000 or more, and (b) the first two contracts for goods procured under the 
procedures set forth in Paragraph C.1 above (National Competitive Procedures), 
regardless of their estimated cost.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
Page  11
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for SONIDEP and professionals to staff the CCPP under Part A of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
CCPP shall be responsible for the coordination of the implementation of the 
Project. At all times until the completion of the Project, CCPP shall be headed by a 
coordinator whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the 
Association, and shall consist of suitably qualified staff in adequate numbers.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, and (b) not 
permit, the Project Implementation Plan, or any provision thereof, to be amended or 
waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Association for its review and comments quarterly progress 
Page  12
reports on the status of the Project;
(c)
not later than October 30 of each year, commencing on October 30, 1999, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association, a joint annual review on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and the Program, and, in particular, the 
progress achieved by the Borrower during the current fiscal year, having regard to the 
monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(d)
not later than one (1) month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association: (i) for its approval, a proposed annual work program together with a 
proposed budget, a financing plan and a priority investment program, for the 
forthcoming fiscal year; and (ii) for its review, a report in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the implementation of the 
Project and the Program during the current year;
(e)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in 
the implementation of the Project and the Program, or to implement such measures as 
may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project and the Program; and
(f)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its 
part to organize, in conjunction with the Association, a workshop for the launching of 
the Project implementation which shall cover, inter alia, disbursement and procurement 
procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project.
4.
Midterm Review
(a)
Not later than March 30, 2000, or such other later date as the Borrower 
and the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with the 
Association a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project under 
terms of reference agreed with the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four (4) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), to (4), set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFAF 150,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of CFAF 
75,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  13
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
Page  14
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
