                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No:ICR0000425




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-31300 IDA-3130A)




                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.0 MILLION
                         (US$ 18.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                      FOR A

                 PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY REFORM

                        TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                    June 29, 2007




Financial and Private Sector Development
West Africa Country Department 3
Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective 4/23/2007)

         Currency Unit = Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc (FCFA)
                         FCFA 1.00 = US$ 0.00206619
                           US$ 1.00 = FCFA 483.896


                                FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 ­ December 31, 2007

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


Abattoir          Abattoir Frigorifique de Niamey (Slaughterhouse)
ARM               Autorité de Régulation Multisectorielle
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CCPP              Cellule de Coordination du Programme de Privatisation
                  (Privatization Agency)
CEM               Country Economic Memorandum
CNIP              Nigerien Private Investor Council
DCA               Development Credit Agreement
DMTP              Direction du Matériel des Travaux Publics
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
FIAS              Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FM                Financial Management
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GoN               Government of Niger
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA               Investment Climate Assessment
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ICR               Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT               Information and Communication Technologies
IDA               International Development Association
IMF               International Monetary Fund
IRR               Internal Rate of Return
ISR               Implementation Status and Results Report
MoF               Ministry of Finance, Economic Reforms and Privatization
MoP               Ministry of Privatization
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
NEPA              Nigerian Electric Power Authority
NIGELEC           Société Nigérienne d'Electricité (Power Utility)
NPV               Net Present Value
OFEDES            Office des Eaux du Sous-sol (Well Drilling Agency)
OLANI             Office du Lait du Niger (Dairy Products Company)
PAD               Project Appraisal Document

PE                  Public Enterprise
PPI                 Private Participation in Infrastructure
PPPs                Public Private Partnerships
PSAC                Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSD                  Private Sector Development
RINI                Société Le Riz du Niger (Rice Marketing Company)
SEEN                Société d'Exploitation des Eaux du Niger
SLMTP               Société de Location du Matériel des Travaux Publics
SMEs                Small- and Medium Size Enterprises
SNC                 Société Nigérienne de Cimenterie (Cement Company)
SNE                 Société Nationale des Eaux (Water Utility)
SOEs                State-Owned Enterprises
SONIDEP             Société Nigérienne de Produits Petroliers (Petroleum
                    Distribution Company)
SONITEL             Société Nigérienne de Télécommunications
                    (Télécommunications Utility))
SONITEXTIL         Société Nigérienne de Textiles (Textile Company)
SPEHG               Société Exploitante de l'Hôtel (Gaweye Hôtel)


SPEN                  Société de Patrimoine des Eaux du Niger


WB                    World Bank




          Vice President: Obiageli Ezekwesili
        Country Director: Madani M. Tall
   Acting Sector Manager: Dileep M. Wagle
    Project Team Leader: Michaela J. Weber
       ICR Team Leader: Mazen Bouri

                                        Republic of Niger
                     Privatization and Regulatory Reform Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 37
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 39
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 41
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 42
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 46
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 47
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     NE-Priv Reg Reform
Country:                Niger                  Project Name:
                                                                     (FY99)
Project ID:             P051272                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-31300,IDA-3130A
ICR Date:               06/03/2007             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:
Original Total
                        XDR 14.0M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 10.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Cellule de Coordination du Programme de Privatisation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/15/1997     Effectiveness:       01/28/1999        01/28/1999
Appraisal:             06/26/1998     Restructuring(s):                      03/03/2006
Approval:              09/15/1998     Mid-term Review:                       06/18/2001
                                      Closing:             12/31/2001        12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately                                   Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory         Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                QAG Assessments
       Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  74                 40
General energy sector                                                                   7
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                                 11
Other social services                                              26                 16
Telecommunications                                                                    26


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                             Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                                 Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization             Primary           Primary
E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katrya Ezekwesili          Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                      Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Dileep M. Wagle                     Thomas W. Allen
Project Team Leader:       Michaela J. Weber                   Heidi M. Mattila
ICR Team Leader:           Mazen Bouri
ICR Primary Author:        Mazen Bouri
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Privatization and Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project is to
increase the operational and financial performance of the public enterprise sector and selected
utilities through privatization of assets and private sector participation in infrastructure.
Achieving this objective will help Niger to improve access to and quality of services in
telecommunications, water, and electricity through the development of an effective policy and
regulatory framework. The project components include: 1) capacity building and support to the
implementation of the privatization program through the assistance of local and foreign experts, a

public information campaign, a staff retrenchment program, and project management; and 2)
privatization and regulatory reforms in the infrastructure sector (telecommunications, water, and
electricity).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Improved access to electricity, water and telecommunications by population.
                                                                              Global Teledensity:
                                                                              2.4/100 inhab.
                                                                              Fixed line
                                            Target: Global                    subscribers: 24,000.
                                            Teledensity: 1.25                 Mobile line

                Baseline Data:              lines per 100                     subscribers:
                                            inhab.                            300,000.
Value           Telecom : Global            Telecoms: fixed                   Access to water in
quantitative or teledensity is 0.16 lines   45000 lines;                      cities: 82%.
Qualitative)    per 100 inhab.
                Water:60,374 subscribers    Mobile 5,000 lines                Increase in urban

                Power: 74,393               Cities with Water:                water subscribers
                                            75%                               by 302,700.
                                            Electricity:                      Access to
                                            65%                               electricity: 8%
                                                                              (2002 data).Power
                                                                              subscribers:
                                                                              169,000.
Date achieved 10/26/1999                    10/26/1999                        12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Number of companies privatized.
                                                               Abbatoirs
                                                               Frigorifiques Of the original 8
                                                               was            enterprises, 3 were
                                                               withdrawn and privatized
                                                               two others     (SONITEL, SNE,
Value
quantitative or for privatization under the listed
                8 companies were listed     8 companies were
                                                  for          were added - and OFEDES) and
                                                               Ste Nigerienne 5 remain SOEs.
Qualitative)    Project                     privatization under
                                            the Project        de Transport   Two SOEs were
                                                               (SNTN) and     added to the list; of
                                                               Ste de         those, one was
                                                               Location de    privatized
                                                               Materiel de TP(SLMTP).
                                                               (SLMTP)
Date achieved 06/15/1998                    09/30/1998         07/19/2002     12/29/2006

Comments
(incl. %        4 enterprises were privatized out of a total 10 of SOEs to be privatized (original 8

achievement)    plus 2 additional).

Indicator 3 :   Reduced financial losses of the PE sector (Improvement in financial and
                operating results) and no transfers from GON to the privatized PEs.
                                                                              From the 4 SOEs
                                                                              that were
                                                                              privatized, there is
                                                                              no evidence that the
                                                                              GoN has made any

                SOEs were a burden to      Improved financial                 transfers following

Value           the GoN's Treasury and     and operating                      the transactions. Of

quantitative or were suffering from poor   results and no                     the remaining

Qualitative)    financial and operating    transfers from                     SOEs, there has

                performance                GoN to privatized                  been improved
                                           SOEs.                              performance at
                                                                              NIGELEC and
                                                                              SONIDEP. The
                                                                              remaining SOEs
                                                                              continue to
                                                                              struggle.
Date achieved 06/15/1998                   09/30/1998                         12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Improved average call completion rate, reduced ratio of unaccounted water, and
                reduced hours of electricity blackouts

                Rate of technical          Unaccounted-for-

Value           efficiency of the urban    water in urban                     Technical

(quantitative   water distribution         areas reduced from                 efficiency of urban

or Qualitative) networks (Reduction of     baseline values by                 water

                water losses): 80%         at least another 5%                distribution:85%
                                           to reach 85%
Date achieved 09/12/2001                   09/12/2001                         12/29/2006
Comments        There was no electricity or telecom data on average call completion rate and
(incl. %        reduced hours of electricity blackouts provided at appraisal. For electricity, the
achievement)    2006 ICA indicated average two-hour blackout occurring 20 times a month.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                         Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP               Disbursements
                                                                     (USD millions)
  1   01/28/1999        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      0.00
  2   11/17/1999        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      3.26
  3   05/25/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      5.24
  4   12/28/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      5.73
  5   06/29/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      6.12
  6   11/15/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      6.27
  7   05/09/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      6.89
  8   12/13/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      8.72
  9   06/18/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      9.12
  10  11/26/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      9.38
  11  05/26/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      9.84
  12  12/06/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    11.53
  13  12/09/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    11.68

  14  06/23/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                   13.44

  15  11/01/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             13.72

  16  12/20/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                   13.72

  17  06/29/2006   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                   13.85


H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)    Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
  03/03/2006        N        MS     MU         13.78    See section 1.3 & 2.2 for details

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design          (this section is descriptive, taken
from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)

In the mid 1990s, Niger's economy went through a difficult phase as a result of the
decline in the price of uranium, two prolonged droughts, loss of competitiveness
associated with a real appreciation of the FCFA franc, rapid population growth and
political instability. Over the period from 1975 to 1994, the real growth of GDP of 1.7
percent was lower than population growth rate of 3.3 percent. Parallel to that, there was a
substantial increase in the level of the country's indebtedness. Contributing to the general
economic malaise was the status of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) which were
characterized by low competitiveness due to overstaffing, accumulation of arrears, lack
of access to investment capital, management weakness, old and obsolete production tools,
poor quality of services, and political interference.

The Government of Niger (GoN) recognized that the SOE portfolio was a burden on
public finances and inhibiting the development of the private sector. In 1996, under the
framework of IMF Structural Adjustment program and a World Bank Public Sector
Adjustment Credit, the GoN passed the privatization law that provided the legal
framework for privatization and created the Privatization Agency (Cellule de
Coordination du Programme de Privatization- CCPP). The law established a list of 12
enterprises that the Government would privatize and included those operating in the
infrastructure sectors of telecommunication, water, and electricity. The project was to
provide technical assistance and capacity building for the GoN's privatization program.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The objectives of the Privatization and Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project
are: (i) to increase the operational and financial performance of the public enterprise
sector and selected utilities through privatization of assets and private sector participation
in infrastructure and (ii) to improve access and quality of services in selected
infrastructure sectors within an enhanced regulatory framework.

Key Performance Indicators as set out in the PAD:

    · Improved access to electricity, water and telecommunications by the population

    · Privatization of five commercial enterprises and three utilities

             o SONIDEP : Société Nigerienne de Produits Petroliers
             o Abattoir: Abattoir Frigorifique de Niamey
             o OFEDES : Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol



                                               1

            o RINI : Société Le Riz du Niger
            o SPEHG: Société Exploitante de l'Hotel Gaweye
            o SONITEL: Société Nigerienne de Telecommunications
            o NIGELEC: Société Nigerienne d'Electricite
            o SNE : Société Nationale des Eaux

    · Reduced financial losses of the Public Enterprise (PE) sector and no transfers
        from GoN to the privatized PEs.

    · Improved average call completion rate for telecommunications, reduced ratio of
        unaccounted water, and reduced hours of electricity blackouts.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The project's Overall PDOs was not revised. However, the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) was amended twice (once in January 2003 and the second time in June
2006) which changed the project's indicators. The first amendment reduced the number
of commercial enterprises to be privatized from five to three, dropping the Abbatoir and
RINI from the list at the request of the GoN which decided to remove these two
companies from its privatization program. The second amendment reallocated funds from
worker severance and equipment line items towards consultant costs and added new
activities. This resulted in the following revised set of indicators:

    · Privatization of SONITEL and SNE by December 31, 2000.
    · Revised sector policies adopted by June 30, 2000 for telecommunication,
        water and electricity sectors.
    · Autonomous multi-sectoral regulator established by December 31, 2000.
    · A portfolio management and corporate governance system for the
        Ministry of Privatization is in place.
    · Investment costs and investments options for NIGELEC are analyzed.
    · Improved doing business ratings.
    · A four year Business plan for at least one agricultural export product and the
        tourism sector is adopted by government and private sector.
    · The multi-sector regulator has clear indicators to regulate SONITEL.

As less than 5 percent of project spent funds were disbursed after the second amendment
and the remaining period represented six- months of an eight-year Project, the
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) will use, as a basis, the original
indicators and will draw on the final phase indicators primarily to highlight issues
encountered and lessons learned.




                                              2

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group"
identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and
organizations expected to benefit from the project)
Benefits                                          Target Population
Enhanced institutional capacity to implement a Ministry of Finance (MoF) and other GoN
privatization program                             officials
Greater access to and quality of infrastructure Population at large and in rural areas in
services    (telecommunications,    water   and Particular
electricity)
Enhanced fiscal capacity for essential social Children and the poor
services
Increased private sector employment               Working age population

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project consisted of two components: 1) Capacity building and support to the
implementation of the privatization program 2) Privatization and regulatory reforms in
the infrastructure sector. The following provides a brief description of the original
components along with the International Development Association (IDA) Allocated Cost.
The GoN was to contribute 10 percent to project costs. A US$1 million contingency was
also budgeted.

Component One: Capacity Building & Support to Privatization Program
Implementation: (US$ 9.8 million)

This component consisted of four sub-components as follows:

1.1. Institutional Strengthening of the CCPP (US$3.3 million): This sub-component
would ensure that the CCPP will have adequate capacity and expertise to coordinate the
privatization program. This sub-component would include funding for consultants
(accounting, privatization, legal, sectoral experts) to support the CCPP.

1.2. Public Information Campaign (US$ 0.50 million): Through this sub-component, the
project would assist with a comprehensive program of public outreach and consensus-
building activities designed to educate, inform and build consensus around privatization.

1.3. Retrenchment Program (US $4.8 million): The project was to finance the severance
payments of SOE employees who were laid off as a result of the privatization process, in
line with applicable GoN guidelines and laws. In addition, the project was to finance
specific schemes to facilitate the re-absorption of laid-off workers into the economy.


1.4. Project Management (US$ 1.2 million): The project counterpart was the Ministry of
Finance, Economic Reforms, and Privatization. The Project Implementing Agency
would be the CCPP which had already been created by the 1996 privatization law and
which would be responsible for the execution of all phases of the project, including
financial reporting, monitoring and evaluation, and procurement. The CCPP was housed
in the Ministry. In August 1999, the GoN created a new Ministry, the Ministry of
Privatization and Public Enterprise Restructuring, which became the GoN's counterpart


                                                3

for the duration of the project. The CCPP was from thereon located within the Ministry
of Privatization (MoP). The Prime Minister continued to chair the Inter-Ministerial
Committee on Privatization which would take key decisions in the privatization program.


Component Two: Privatization & Reform of Infrastructure Sectors (US$ 7.8 million)

This component consisted of three sub-components:

2.1. Telecommunications (US$ 2.80 million): This sub-component would provide
technical assistance in four inter-related areas: (i) privatization of SONITEL; (ii) revision
and development of the regulatory framework; (iii) preparation of a diagnostic study on
the postal sector and the postal savings institution; and (iv) establishment of a frequency
management system.

2.2. Water (US$ 2.80 million): This sub-component would fund the preparation of a lease
contract for private management of the urban water system, and provide funds for experts
to assist in the revision of the regulatory framework for the water sector.

2.3. Electricity (US$ 2.20 million): This component will support the Government's
electricity sector reform through: (i) the privatization of NIGELEC and (ii) the revision
and development of the regulatory framework for the sector.

1.6 Revised Components

The June 2006 Amendment added the following activities to Component One:
    · Preparing studies and providing capacity building support to private and public
        sector entities for broader Private Sector Development (PSD).
    · Restructuring audits (including corporate governance strengthening) for five
        public companies and the establishments of an SOE portfolio management system
        for the MoP.

1.7 Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations)

The project's closing date was extended four times, as follows:

Extension # 1: 24-month extension from December 2001 to December 2003: The
project had experienced delays in completing key privatization transactions. IDA had
received an Action Plan from GoN which set out revised timelines for completing the
remaining activities within two years which provided the rationale for this extension.

Extension # 2: 12-month extension from December 2003 to December 2004: Similar to
the first extension, this one was provided in order to allow enough time for the remaining
privatization transactions to be completed with a new timetable and detailed action plan.

Extension # 3: 6-month extension from December 2004 to June 2005: This extension
was provided to allow the completion of the installation of the frequency management



                                               4

equipment under the telecom sub-component. All other project activities ceased and the
CCPP unit was disbanded at that time.

Extension # 4: 18-month extension from July 2005 to December 2006: The project
continued to have significant un-disbursed funds and it was envisaged that those could be
used to consider new models for public-private partnerships (PPPs) for NIGELEC and
SONIDEP and to prepare for broader PSD support operation. This extension
necessitated the reconstituting of the CCPP unit.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project was designed in the context of IDA-IMF support to the GoN's economic
reform program. The project followed a one-year 1997-1998 Development Policy
Lending operation, the Public Sector Adjustment Credit. One of the goals of the
Adjustment Credit was to assist the GoN in launching its Privatization Program. The
lessons emerging from the Adjustment Operation's ICR were the need to link
privatization efforts with sector policy reforms, the importance of transparent and
competitive divestiture processes, and the requirement for communication and
information strategies to build consensus around the privatization program. The ICR also
emphasized the importance of a realistic implementation timetable.

The project design did take into consideration the need to build capacity to carry out
privatization transactions and the importance of creating appropriate regulatory
framework for key sectors. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) also provided a
detailed analysis of the main issues facing the key infrastructure sectors. However, the
project timetable was ambitious as all privatization transactions were to be completed
within two years. While it is the case that the GoN had agreed to this timetable, it may
have been the case that the Government had wanted to go along with IMF-IDA
requirements to ensure continued donor support. Further, there was little mention of how
international private investors could be convinced to come to Niger.

The PAD did recognize the major risks facing the project such as weakening Government
commitment, political and macroeconomic instability, and lack of interest on the part of
private investors and correctly judged those as Substantial risks. However, the mitigation
efforts put forward all revolved around maintaining good policy dialogue and did not
appear to be commensurate with the risks presented. Successful privatization often
hinges on factors outside a project's control such as political climate and international
market conditions. Therefore, a project dealing with such an issue would need to
elaborate on the risks faced and promulgate a thorough risk mitigation strategy.

2.2 Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at
Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable)




                                                5

During the first year of the project, a coup d'etat occurred against the ruling military
regime which resulted in a period of political transition. Even though the coup d'etat
gradually ushered in a more democratic form of Government, there were frequent
changes in Government and the project witnessed four Ministers of Privatizations and
five Secretary Generals (SGs). The changes at the Ministry had a direct impact on the
functioning of the CCPP, the Project Implementing Agency. The Ministry of Privatization
(MoP) was not very well resourced and the CCPP was its main activity. Therefore, the
CCPP received close attention and scrutiny from Ministry officials and the first two
CCPP coordinators were political appointees. Further, the turnover of Ministers and SGs
in turn led to turnovers at the CCPP with a total of four coordinators over the project life.
This turnover delayed project implementation.

The project was also impacted by international market trends in the energy markets,
which compounded the problem of attracting investors to Niger. Specifically, the Enron
collapse that occurred in 2001 resulted in a marked decline in global investor interest in
purchasing emerging markets energy companies. This likely contributed to the decrease
in interested bidders for the NIGELEC transaction. The project's effort in bringing in
private participation in the water sector was well-complemented by another IDA project
which was dedicated exclusively for the development of the water sector. The project
also benefited from the growing investor interest in the telecom markets in developing
economies, and in particular in the development of the mobile phone networks.

As indicated in Section 1.7, the project went through four extensions prolonging its life
from three-years to eight-years. The main privatization transactions related to SONITEL
and SNE were completed within the original project timeframe. At the time of the last
extension, the project continued to have 30 percent un-disbursed funds. A decision was
taken to extend the project by an additional eighteen months due to the perceived
reputation risk issues for IDA should support to the reform process be discontinued. It
was expected that GoN capacity for preparing, negotiating, and monitoring Public Private
Partnerships (PPPs) would be strengthened during that extension period with a view to
applying this approach to NIGELEC and SONIDEP. Additionally, it was envisaged that
project would take on PSD reforms following the Doing Business rankings and sources
of growth study. However, as the project was dealing with new stakeholders, the new
PSD activities for the extension period took almost a year to be agreed with the
authorities and were formalized in a project "restructuring" amendment in June 20061.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PAD set of indicators contained a mix of output-type indicators (completion of
privatization transactions and no GoN transfers to privatized SOEs) with indicators that
attempted to measure outcomes, especially for the infrastructure sectors (increased



1Technically, the June 2006 amendment did not reflect a board-approved project restructuring since the
PDOs remained the same. However, as mentioned in Section 1.3, this amendment did result in a
reallocation between lines items, addition of new activities, and a revised set of performance indicators.




                                                     6

performance and expansion of electricity, water, and telecom sectors). On the other hand,
the DCA contained mainly output-type indicators that were focused on privatization
transactions and adoption of sector policies, both of which are necessary but not
sufficient to measure the PDOs of improved enterprise performance and improved access
and quality of key infrastructure services. In terms of the measurement of the M&E
indicators, it was envisaged that privatization transaction progress would be monitored
through the CCPP Progress Reports and the status of the target enterprises would be
assessed periodically by the ARM and other regulatory agencies. The CCPP and ARM
reports did not reflect ongoing measurement of the outcome-level M&E indicators. In
the two sectors of water and telecom, there were periodic discussions of overall sector
achievements provided by the assigned technical experts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as
applicable)

Procurement: Due to the complexity of the privatization transactions and the high
turnover in the staff, the quality and timeliness of procurement documents submitted by
the CCPP was consistently poor. This was compounded by the fact that it was not easy to
attract experienced international consultants who could advice on and oversee
privatization transactions in the Nigerien environment. The World Bank attempted to
address these issues by providing training on procurement processes to CCPP staff. The
weaknesses in procurement resulted in delays in program implementation in the different
phases of the project.

Disbursement: Due to delays in procurement and lack of movement on key transactions,
the project disbursements were consistently less than forecasted. While consultants were
recruited to carry most transactions to the point of sale, the lack of completion meant that
funds allocated for worker retrenchment were under-utilized. For example, by June
2005, despite the 3.5 years extensions up to that date, the project had still undisbursed 30
percent of allocated funds. By project closing, approximately 25 percent of project funds
in SDR were still undisbursed. The remaining balance of the project were cancelled and
reallocated to finance Avian Flu activities under the Community Action Plan. The
reallocated credit funds were converted to IDA grants.

Financial Management (FM): The CCPP's accountants received extensive support from
the country resident Financial Management specialist. This was instrumental in ensuring
that the project complied with FM requirements and submitted financial reports in
conformity with World Bank guidelines. There were some delays in submissions though
these matters did not become serious FM issues.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-
completion operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance
arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation,
if applicable)

After the project closure, the GoN renamed the Ministry of Privatization to the Ministry
of Young Entrepreneurs and of Public Enterprise Reform. The mandate of the Ministry


                                               7

is still being developed. The CCPP Unit was disbanded at project closure. Over the life
of the project, there was a global shift in paradigm from a focus on privatization
transactions to a broader look at SOE reform and Private-Public Partnerships (PPPs).
This also resulted in considering new models to promote access, quality, and affordability
of infrastructure services provided by SOEs through strengthening corporate governance,
improving management and internal controls, and bringing in strategic investors. This
was the result of the lessons of the privatization experience from many developing
countries, including in sub-Saharan Africa. SOE reform and broader PSD development
remain central to the country's developmental goals creation and poverty reduction. The
Development Policy Loan (DPL) planned for FY08 will have as a focus promoting
growth through private sector development. Building on the analysis that was conducted
through the ICA and the dialogue with various stakeholders in the final extension phase,
IDA is planning new sources of growth project for FY09.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The GoN is in the process of finalizing it second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) 2008-2012. One of the strategic goals of the PRSP is accelerating growth
through rural development, improved competitiveness, economic diversification,
promoting exports, and promoting tourism sector. There is mention of the need to
continue the reform of the SOEs but with a focus on improving SOE management and
performance as opposed to outright privatization. The current CAS (2003) emphasizes
improving the macroeconomic framework, rural development, and promoting to access
social services. It did not envision future privatization projects or additional PSD lending
operations since it was prepared when the Privatization Project was ongoing. The 2006
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) highlights the paramount importance of
infrastructure development in opening the path for sustained economic development for
Niger. The next CAS, currently under discussion, is expected to include a broader
discussion of private sector development and support to SOE reform through PPPs.
Therefore, the relevance of the project's privatization approach to today's context is
diminished, but its broader goals of promoting private sector development and improving
access to infrastructure remain central to Niger's economic priorities and needs.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project had two overriding objectives:

         Increase operational and financial performance of the public enterprise sector
         and utilities through privatization and private sector participation

         Improve access and quality of services in selected infrastructure sectors (telecom,
         water, and electricity) within an enhanced regulatory framework.


                                                8

The following section will assess the project achievements firstly in relation to the
commercial public enterprise sector and secondly in relation to the utility sectors and will
include separate assessments of telecom, water and electricity sectors. The section will
conclude with overall conclusions and will comment on whether the project contributed
to the CAS goal of promoting broad- based, private-sector led recovery of the economy.

I- Increase Operational and Financial Performance of Public Enterprise Sector
through Privatization and Private Sector Participation

Besides being present in the utility sectors, the Government also owned a number of
"commercial" SOEs that were a legacy of state ownership and that had not been
privatized during the structural reforms of the 1980s2.
The project was to build the capacity of CCPP to implement the privatization of these
five SOEs3:
             o Abattoir: Abattoir Frigorifique de Niamey
             o OFEDES : Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol
             o RINI : Société Le Riz du Niger
             o SPEHG: Société Exploitante de l'Hotel Gaweye
             o SONIDEP Société Nigerienne de Produits Petroliers

The following is a synopsis of the status of the five SOEs (See Annex 2 for detailed analysis):

1-Abattoir Frigorifique de Niamey: Following a number of unsuccessful bids, the GoN
decided to drop the Abattoir from the privatization list.

2-OFEDES (Office des Eaux du Sous ­ Sol): Following a number of rounds, in January
2004, 51 percent of the company's shares were purchased by a Canadian investor in
association with a local company, with the remaining share held by the GoN. A dispute
emerged between the two new owners which resulted in no new investments as of the end
of 2005.

3-RINI (Société Le Riz du Niger): There was an ongoing dispute related to the ownership
rights of the company's real estate titles involving the inheritors of a former President.
Ultimately, the GoN decided to drop this firm from the privatization list.




2There were 54 SOEs in 1981 contributing to 24 percent of value added and 46 percent of formal
employment. Following a series of structural adjustment reforms supported by the IMF and IDA in the
1980s, the Government decided to retain 25 SOEs and divest the rest. (See pp. 16-17, Niger Country
Economic Memorandum: 2006, World Bank).

3From the list of 12 SOEs in the Privatization Program, three (SONITEL, NIGELEC, SNE) were utilities,
three were privatized before the project were started (SONITEXTEL, OLANI, SNC) and one (ONAHA)
was dropped from the list during project preparation.




                                                      9

4-SPEHG Société Propriétaire et Exploitante de l'Hôtel (Gawaye Hotel): Following
multiple bid rounds and the selection of an interested bidder, in late 2003, negotiations
between Government and the selected investor broke down over the treatment of cross
debts amount resulting from past management liabilities and hotel refurbishing bills.


5-SONIDEP: Société Nigerienne de Produits Petroliers: SONIDEP was one of the main
target enterprises of the Privatization Program. In 1998, its sales turnover of FCFA 36.6
billion was double that of NIGELEC and higher still from SONITEL and SNE, the three
main utility SOEs slated for privatization. The issue of SONIDEP's privatization was
also part of a broader IMF-IDA agenda to liberalize oil imports and allow competition.
The official monopoly on oil imports overseen by SONIDEP had resulted in unofficial
imports that avoided trade taxes which were estimated to be substantially more than the
official oil flows. For a variety of reasons discussed in Annex 2, the privatization of
SONIDEP was not concluded. However, SONIDEP's financial and commercial
performance continued to improve. This improvement (more than doubling of sales and
10 times in profits) can be explained by the: (i) presence of a strong General Manager
who launched a vast program of internal restructuring; (ii) high oil prices; and (iii) low
overhead costs for a company that runs on margin and had a total workforce of
approximately 150 workers. The larger issue of reform in the overall oil sector remains
unresolved with the 2006 CEM estimating that unofficial petroleum imports costs the
treasury FCFA 30 billion in 2003.

6- SLMTP: (The Société de Location du Matériel des Travaux Publics): was added to the
privatization list through an Inter-Ministerial Committee decision in 2002. SLMTP
stemmed from the transformation of the "Direction du matériel des travaux publics"
(DMTP) into an independent company equipment leasing company. The privatization
process was completed by December 2002 by transferring a majority of 51 percent to a
strategic investor along with the sale of 30 percent to the small national investors and
maintaining 19 percent shareholding by the Government. The Privatization Impact
Assessment Study of 2005 concluded that SMLTP was not yet able to offer adequate
service due the numerous breakdowns and that these problems were seriously affecting
company cash flow.

In summary, four out of the five original privatization transactions did not take place.
One SOE (SLMTP) was added to the list with 51 percent of shares sold but this has not
yet resulted in major new investments due to lack of financing. SONIDEP, which was
not privatized, continues to perform well largely due to favorable market conditions, a
protected monopoly, and the initiative of its general manager. Indications are that the
other non-privatized SOEs continue to struggle and face operational and financial
difficulties. The privatization program is currently inactive. Among the factors that
contributed to the lack of achievement of this objective were:

    -   Minimal investor interest in these sectors
    -   Restrictive investment climate
    -   Weak overall economic performance
    -   Shifting Government Priorities and changes in key personnel


                                             10

    -   Weak implementation capacity
    -   Resistance from SOE management and labor


II- Increase Operational and Financial Performance of Utility Enterprises through
Privatization and Private Sector Participation and Improve Access to Telecom, Water,
and Electricity within an enhanced Regulatory Framework

Telecommunication Sector

At project's beginning, the telecommunications sector in Niger was characterized by:

        (i) Poor access to services. SONITEL provided inadequate coverage of services
(1.6 lines per 100 inhabitants), with the vast majority of Nigeriens lacking access to
telephone services.

        (ii) Chronic lack of investment capital to expand the network and poor cashflow.

        (iii) Inadequate regulatory and institutional arrangements for the sector.

The project provided technical assistance in the development of the new
telecommunications law that passed in 1999. The law aimed to establish a pro-competitive
environment, to foster access, investment, and to reduce prices through competition. It
also established a framework for awarding mobile licenses. The new telecom law also
made references to the ARM and its regulatory role of the telecom sector. Following the
passage of the telecom law, with the project's assistance, the GoN issued two mobile
licenses for private sector operations in 2000 and a third license was issued in 2001 in
competitive bids.

SONITEL's Privatization took place on December 2001 with 51 percent of shares
awarded to a Libyan-Chinese Consortium; the GoN maintained 49 percent
ownership. This transaction led to the implementation of the worker retrenchment
scheme for 354 employees for a total cost of FCFA 4.27 billion. The current situation of
SONITEL remains unsatisfactory with ongoing disagreements between the Government
and the private investors over commitments undertaken during the privatization process.
Rather than making investments in land-lines, the new owners focused on the
development of Sahelcom, its mobile subsidiary. For the new owners, the
implementation of their business plan has been hampered by: the non ­ implementation
of new SONITEL tariffs rates, continued Government arrears of up to FCFA 15 billion,
unclear clear title to land which blocks ability to secure financing, and the lack of audited
financial statements.

The ongoing management problems did not permit the company to tackle the challenges
in the telecommunication sector. As a result, the public criticizes SONITEL's
privatization since service quality has not improved. Indeed, the 2006 ICA reports that 39


                                              11

percent of firms surveyed in manufacturing considered telecommunications to be a severe
or major constraint. There has been minimal growth in the number of line subscribers
from approximately 16,000 to 24,000, which contrasts with the rapid development of the
mobile sector. Furthermore, the financial performance of SONITEL continues to be
weak and erratic as demonstrated by the flat sales levels and the fluctuating profitability
from 1998 through 2004:


               SONITEL Financial Summary (In Millions of FCFAs)
                   1998       1999     2000    2001       2002     2003     2004
      Sales       14,921    13,329   12,691    14,302    15,676   15,140   15,300
   Net Profits      457       554     6,448   (19,310)   1,579     3,206   1,271


In terms of the mobile sub-sector, the entry of new operators in the mobile sector boosted
the penetration rate. Recent data indicate that there were 300,000 subscribers in 2005 and
this is slated to continue to grow substantially over the coming years. It is anticipated
that one of the main mobile companies is planning to invest FCFA 25 billion in 2007. It
is estimated that the telecom sector's contribution to GDP has increased from 1.4 percent
in 2002 to 2.3 percent in 2005, largely due to the mobile sub-sectors. The sector is likely
to be a main source of fiscal revenues (through VAT, Customs, fees) for the Government,
though no official figures are available. Mobile network coverage is expected to be
available throughout the country in the near term. Interconnectivity between the main
mobile networks was achieved in 2005. As a result of the increase in mobile usage, the
overall tele-density rate (number of lines / 100 inhabitants) has increased from 0.16
percent at project start to 2.4 percent in 2005, a significant increase though still lower
than the Sub-Saharan Africa average of 6.4 percent. By contrast, the increase in fixed
line density has been marginal going from 0.16 percent to 0.2 percent. The mobile sub-
sector still faces challenges with high call rates and a virtual duopoly between the two
dominant plays.

Water Sector

At the time of project preparation, SNE (The National Water Corporation) suffered from:
(i) management instability, (ii) tariffs that were not adequate for cost recovery, (iii) low
bill collection rates, (iv) significant government arrears, and (v) poor network coverage.
The combination of high connection fees, lengthy procedures for obtaining a service
connection and poor coverage forced households to use other sources of water and pay
very high prices. As a first step towards the policy goals of increasing quality and
quantity of water services, the GoN had decided to introduce private sector participation
in the management of SNE's urban sectors. The originally planned privatization option
for SNE was a lease-contract. Following discussions with GoN, the project proposed a
lease "affermage" (enhanced lease) contract as the most appropriate privatization option.

The institutional and contractual arrangements for the affermage contract involved four
participants: (a) the Government, responsible for defining sectoral policy, managing
water resources, and developing tariff policy; (b) ARM, responsible for developing a



                                              12

regulatory framework, monitoring water service and contractual arrangements among
stakeholders; (c) a public asset holding company, Société de Patrimoine des Eaux du
Niger (SPEN); and (d) a private operator, Société d 'Exploitation des Eaux du Niger
(SEEN). SPEN was created in August 2000 to take over functions of SNE related to
ownership of facilities, debt service, planning and control/supervision of rehabilitation,
renewal, and extension of infrastructure. SEEN, the newly created private-operator
would be responsible primarily for the production, transmission and distribution of
potable water in urban areas with basic infrastructure rehabilitation. The lease contract
gives the private operator exclusive rights to produce and distribute potable water in all
urban centers of the leased area for a 10-year period. These reforms were reflected in the
Water Sector Law 2000-12.

CCPP successfully awarded the affermage contract for SEEN in December 2000 to a
private investor. After this privatization, the planned reforms in the water sector were
carried forward through a US$48 million water sector investment program financed by
several institutions (IDA, BOAD, AFD) and implemented by SPEN. The water project ­
which is rated highly satisfactory- had improved the overall management of the sector in
terms of service quality, technical efficiency (reduction of water losses) and cost recovery
(bill collection). Specifically, nearly 300,000 additional urban residents had gained
access to improved water services. This represents a 20 percent increase of the level of
access to water in urban centers - from 62 percent in 2001 to 82 percent in 2006.
Financial equilibrium in the sector was achieved in December 2006 due to efficiency
gains from the sector reform (reduction of water losses by 5 percent improvement of the
bill collection ratio) and the application of the agreed tariff policy. All Government
arrears as of December 2006 (FCFA 2.2 billion) had been cleared by March 14, 2007. A
recent mid-term review of the implementation of the affermage contract confirmed that
the arrangements are still valid and appropriate, but some technical and institutional
aspects of the affermage contract could be improved. The water sector project is working
with ARM to review options for improving the affermage contract.

Water sector reform was not without challenges, as the relationship between ARM and
SPEN and SEEN faced some difficulties during the first years of the contract. There was
also some hostility to the privatization from the general public due to the gradual increase
in tariffs from 238 FCFA /m3 in 2001 to 309 FCFA /m3 in 2006, a 30 percent
increase. This though has to be compared against the low access that was present and the
fact that many households had to arrange for their own water provision and transport at
much higher cost. More importantly, the water tariff in Niger is still very low compared
to neighboring countries (half of the average tariff in the sub-region).

Electricity Sector

The main issues facing the electricity sector at the beginning of the Project were: (a)
limited access to electricity services (only 5 percent of the population had access); (b)
significant Government arrears of about FCFA 3.9 billion, high retail tariffs and low
quality of services; and (c) political interference in the day-to-day management of the
sector. To address these issues, the GoN agreed to transfer the management of the



                                               13

provision of electricity services to private sector operators as part of its 1997
Privatization Policy Framework.

The issue of NIGELEC privatization needs to be considered within the context of an
agreement made between the Governments of Niger and Nigeria dating back to 1977.
Under this agreement, NEPA, Nigeria's state electricity company, agreed to supply 90
percent of Niger's electricity needs through NIGELEC with a preferential pricing policy.
This preferential pricing guarantees comfortable margins for NIGELEC and a supply to
the country, though it acts as a disincentive to improve service quality.
Two rounds of privatization bids in 2001 and 2002 did not succeed in attracting sufficient
investor interest for several possible reasons. Firstly, the power supply agreement
between Niger and Nigeria which made investors wary of coming in. Secondly, the
situation of the global energy markets in 2001 and 2002 following the collapse of Enron
also dampened investor appetite to make new investments in the sector. Thirdly, an
Electricity Law 2003-04 was passed in January 2003 that stipulated that the production,
transport, and distribution of electricity be delegated through a concession agreement
thereby limiting other more creative options such as affermage. Following the new law,
the privatization process was then re-activated but was unsuccessful

Despite the fact that the privatization transaction was not concluded, the prospect of
privatization may have been an incentive for NIGELEC to improve its performance. A
program of internal restructuring was initiated which improved bill collection, reduced
costs and improved the financial situation of the company. In 2006, an agreement was
reached with the GoN for fixed monthly payments of FCFA 200 million to finance
Government's cost of energy. NIGELEC had also embarked on a FCFA 10 billion
investment program to expand its network in the country and extend the interconnection
with Nigeria. The number of subscribers also increased from 100,000 in the year 2000
to 169,000 in 2006. NIGELEC's financials show strong growth in profitability.

                               NIGELEC Financial Summary
                                    (in Millions of FCFAs)
                               2000        2001      2002     2003      2004
                  Sales        20,982     23,208    23,871   26,328    26,858
                Net Profits     152        525       797      1,218     1,144


Despite this, NIGELEC's investments needs remain substantial, since no new
investments were made in the sector during the period 2000-2005 as the privatization
process was being considered. Further, electricity reform remains an urgent need for
Niger. The 2006 ICA reports that 41 percent of manufacturers and 70 percent of hotel
establishments consider electricity as the most severe constraint facing them. Indeed,
electricity cuts averaged 2 hours and occurred an average of 20 times a month for the
period of ICA analysis. The 2006 CEM reported that access to electricity in Niger
averaged 8 percent in 2002 which, while higher than at project beginning, was two times
lower than the average for Sub-Saharan African countries.




                                              14

Enhanced Regulatory Framework for Telecommunication, Water, and Electricity

As part of the regulatory reform, ARM was created by Ordonnance 99-044 in October
1999 which gave it regulatory powers over water, energy, telecom, and transport sectors.
The electricity, telecom, and water laws (discussed in the previous sections) made
reference to ARM as the regulator in the future liberalized sectors. Even though ARM
was created by decree in 1999, it was not until 2003 that the ARM president and sector
directors were appointed.

As ARM was absent while private operators were coming onto the scene in the water and
telecom sectors, it experienced difficulties imposing its mandate. There were also
concerns that the senior appointments were politically motivated. In response, the project
provided significant capacity building support to ARM and the project also assisted ARM
in developing a 3-year business plan. ARM has recently gained credibility especially in
the telecommunication sector where it has been most active. It has a clearly defined role
in telecom in dispute resolution, frequency management, and licenses issuing. ARM has
also started recovering its costs from connection fees charged. Further, ARM benefited
from three project studies in the final project period on: issuing licenses, universal access,
and an organizational audit. Its role in the water sector has been through monitoring the
implementation of the affermage contract and it is expected that it would continue to play
this oversight in any future adjustment or extensions to the affermage contract.

In conclusion, there was progress in achieving the objective of improving the
performance of the infrastructure utilities and expansion of their networks in an enhanced
regulatory framework. Specifically, there was significant progress in water sector, in
terms of SOE performance and quality and quantity of access. The project, through the
affermage contract, laid the foundation for this which was then carried forward by a
water sector project. The achievements in the telecom sector are more mixed.
Undoubtedly, the expansion of the mobile network in Niger has brought new investments
and expanded access to telecom in the country. On the other hand, SONITEL's
performance continues to be disappointing. NIGELEC was not privatized and electricity
continues to be a major bottleneck notwithstanding recent investments. ARM is emerging
as a credible regulator for telecom and water.

III-Broader Impact on Private Sector Development

The project was to contribute to the 1997 CAS objective of broad-based and private
sector-led recovery of the economy. From 2000 to 2005, Niger's GDP grew an average
of 3.1 percent; though this was better than previous periods it was not sufficient to reduce
poverty due to a similar demographic growth rate. The country's private sector is
dominated by informal businesses which account for 75 percent of GDP. Telecom
reforms did bring in new investments with an estimated 2000 new jobs in the mobile sub-
sector. Following the ICA analysis that was done in 2006, the project added a number of
activities to improve the business environment in the final amendment. While these
activities were not implemented due to the limited time available, the close dialogue
during that period with stakeholders in the PSD agenda, such as the Ministry of



                                              15

Commerce and Trade, the Association for Export Promotion, and, the Investor Council
raised awareness of the need to address business environment constraints such as taxation,
business start-up, and the investment code. Niger's Doing Business ranking for 2006 was
160, marginally better than 2005 which was 170, but still denoting a restrictive business
environment.

3.3 Efficiency(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate
norms, least cost and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

During appraisal the economic rate of return was estimated at 28.7 percent in the base
case scenario over a fifteen year period starting from 1999. The calculated rate of return
attempted to capture the benefits of privatization (incremental wages, new employment in
the private sector, productivity gains, consumer surplus, lower treasury transfer,
additional investments). An ex-post cost benefit analysis has not been carried due to the
non-realization of some of the assumptions underlying the model (completion of all
privatization transactions) as well as the non-availability of data required for the model.
It is likely that the ex-post ERR would have been lower due to: (i) an implementation
timeframe longer than initially assumed; (ii) a GDP growth rate of 3.1 percent which is
lower than the 4.5 percent assumed; and (iii) the turnover at the CCPP which necessitated
additional expenses and training for the project management component. (See Annex 3
for fuller discussion of project efficiency.)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall outcome rating for the project is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project's
original approach is less relevant than at design, due to the shift away from outright
privatizations towards models of public-private partnerships. However, the broader
project goals of private sector development and improved access and quality for
infrastructure sectors remain a priority and are expected to be carried forward through
future DPLs, targeted interventions from the World Bank Group, and a sources of growth
operation. With regards to the privatization/ for the commercial SOEs, there was
limited progress as most of the target commercial SOEs were not privatized and, with the
exception of SONIDEP, continue to struggle with poor performance. With regards to
achievements on the infrastructure front, important reforms were realized in two of three
target SOEs. Specifically, there was significant progress in the water sector, with
increased efficiency, quality, access, and an enhanced regulatory framework. Much of
this is also the result the water sector project; however, the affermage contract provided a
basis for that operation. The telecom sector saw important advances in the mobile sub-
sector, though SONITEL continues to be hamstrung by post-privatization problems. In
terms of the regulatory framework, ARM is emerging as a credible regulator for water
and telecom and continues to partner with various donors to further strengthen its role.
For electricity, the NIGELEC transaction was not completed and access and quality of
electricity remain major bottlenecks.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


                                               16

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development-N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

While the CCPP unit was disbanded, many of the former CCPP staff have moved to the
ARM. The skills they acquired through the Project are being used as ARM plays in
regulatory role.      The project also provided significant institutional support to ARM
which continues to be applied.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)-N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops-N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is assessed to be Moderate. It is not expected that any
privatizations that took place during the project (SNE, SONITEL, OFEDES, SLMTP)
will be reversed. The achievements in the water sector are likely to endure and to
expand with the review of the affermage contract and the continued water sector project.
The mobile telecom sub-sector's growth is likely to be maintained and to continue to
accelerate. ARM's role as regulator of telecom and water is expected to be maintained.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

By linking privatization to wider sector reforms, the PAD reflected the lessons learned
from earlier privatization experiences. The PAD also emphasized the importance of
public support and the social dimension of privatization by articulating a communications
strategy and a comprehensive worker retrenchment program. The PAD also highlighted
the weak capacity and included significant allocations for strengthening the project's
implementing agencies. In developing project indicators, the PAD included not only
financial indicators for SOEs but also broader indicators of access, quality, and quantity
for infrastructure sectors. On the other hand, the project's timeline was ambitious. It
was planned that all transactions would be completed within two years. Privatization,
especially of large scale SOEs and those that operate in infrastructure, is a complex
endeavor that depends on unpredictable factors such as future government policies,
market conditions, the public's perception, and investor interest. These challenges are
compounded in a country with extremely weak capacity and still going through a period
of political instability and economic transition. Therefore, it was unlikely that the
transactions could be completed within two years as planned. The project's scope was
also ambitious, including a mix of commercial and utility SOEs, each with its unique



                                               17

problems and challenges. The PAD could have also elaborated on the risks that were
identified and the measure that could mitigate them. Finally, there was little discussion
on the collection and usage of monitoring and evaluation indicators and how these would
feed project's implementation strategy.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

This was a complex project that required continuous and close supervision. There were
on average two supervision missions per year. Even though the project started to
experience delays in the Implementation Schedule almost from the beginning, the
Implementation Progress rating was kept at Satisfactory for the first six years until June
2005 when it was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Development
Objective rating was also maintained at Satisfactory until June 2005 when it was
downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory. The Implementation and Status Results Reports
(ISRs) were perfunctory and did not reflect the depth of challenges facing the project.
Aide Memoires provided much more background on the issues faced yet did not reflect
on the core assumptions of the project such as the level of commitment by GoN to the
privatization program.

As mentioned, the project was extended four times. These extensions were driven in part
by a well-intentioned desire on the part of the World Bank to preserve IDA allocated
funds to one of the poorest countries in the world. There was also a concern of perceived
reputation risk issues should support to the reform process be discontinued prematurely.
However, rather than enhancing the effectiveness of the project, the repeated extensions
may have led to a loss of a momentum for the reform process. Some of the earlier
extensions continued to assume that key privatization transactions (such SONIDEP and
NIGELEC) would materialize, despite increasing evidence to the contrary. Additional
project activities to address broader PSD development issues were formalized six months
from the close date, thereby allowing little time for implementation.

The project had three Team Leaders (TTLs) over its eight years. The project benefited
from the presence of the telecom and water technical specialists who were there from the
outset until project closing and provided essential continuity and expertise for these two
sub-components. The project also commissioned a Privatization Impact Assessment in
2005 which could be used as an input for future activities in support of SOE reforms. The
project also advanced the PSD dialogue in the country which could now be carried
forward in future interventions. Extensive training and support was provided to CCPP
procurement staff which resulted in some marginal improvements but procurement
quality problems persisted through the project partially as a result of turnover.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall rating for Bank Performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The PAD
reflected the lessons of the privatization experiences in terms of the need for
strengthening local capacity and making the link with broader sector reforms and


                                             18

development goals. However, both the scope and the timetable were ambitious. Quality
of Supervision suffered from insufficient supervision inputs and ratings that did not
reflect the delays and challenges encountered. The project benefited from the expertise
of the telecom and water specialists. The repeated extensions did not improve the
project's performance and did not appear to reflect adequate local consultations.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Ministry of Privatization (MoP) was the main government counterpart. The high
level of turnover in Ministries and Senior Officials over the Project Life (four Ministers
and five Secretary-Generals) contributed to the delays faced by the project and the
instability of the CCPP which was housed in the Ministry. The MoP was often unable to
bring along the other line Ministries in carrying forward key privatization transactions
due to the lack of ownership on the part of the authorities to implement the entire
Privatization program. The Ministry's capacity to monitor and support SOEs in its
portfolio remains weak.

On the other hand, the GoN did contribute to the project through passing the ARM,
Telecommunication, Water, and Electricity Reform laws. With the exception of the
electricity law, the other laws did come to effect and provided the framework for
regulation of the liberalized sectors. The GoN also undertook the water reform and
SONITEL privatizations even though they were both politically sensitive The ARM has
recently began to play a more assertive and credible role in the telecom and water sectors
and this likely to continue.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory
Cellule de Coordination du The CCPP's performance was hampered by its lack of
Programme de Privatisation        autonomy and interference from the MoP where it was
                                  housed. The procurement capacity of CCPP was
                                  consistently weak despite significant capacity building
                                  support by the project. There were long periods without
                                  a procurement specialist. The first two CCPP
                                  coordinators were appointed by political decree. In total,
                                  there were four project coordinators. As the project was
                                  extended, there was an increase in staff turnover and a
                                  decrease in performance standards. The CCPP unit had
                                  to be reconstituted during the final extension phase and
                                  it took time for the new staff to be able to apply Bank
                                  policies. Poor relations between the CCPP and MoP in
                                  the final extension period contributed to the delays and
                                  difficulties in implementing the agreed activities. The
                                  CCPP unit was disbanded at project closure.




                                             19

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall rating for Borrower performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project
benefited from the laws that were passed in relation to telecom, water, and ARM.
However, key transactions such as those of SONIDEP and NIGELEC did not materialize
in part due to shifting government priorities and uncertain commitment. CCPP suffered
from high turnover, political interference, and weak capacity

6. Lessons Learned (both      project-specific and of wide general application)

The following lessons emerge from the project's experience:

        Privatization timetables should present a realistic and attainable schedule
        reflecting the fact that successful privatization hinges on a number of variables,
        such as political ownership, country economic situation, market trends, and public
        opinion support. In Niger's case, the lack of ownership, the political transition
        and the high turnover in Government officials contributed to the delays
        encountered by the project. In retrospect, strict conditions on privatization
        schedules did not prove effective.
        In situations where the privatization agenda is not advancing, other options for
        SOE reform should be considered in order to achieve the desired development
        outcome. Indeed, privatization is a means to an end with the goal being improved
        performance, access, affordability of essential services. SOE reform could
        include promoting private-public partnerships, improving operational and
        financial performance through capacity building, management training, and
        corporate governance strengthening. Given the changing political commitment to
        privatization and the impact it is perceived to have on jobs and costs of services,
        these other approaches should have been explored much earlier in the project
        lifetime.
        Besides dealing with sector-specific issues, privatization/reform of SOEs should
        be part of a broader PSD agenda which should include improving the business
        environment and removing the barriers that inhibit local investors and limit
        domestic financial markets.
        Project extensions should be well-planned and agreed with the counterparts before
        they are processed. Project extensions should not be driven by the availability of
        undisbursed funds or ambiguous rationales.
        Ratings should reflect the project achievements and challenges; early detection
        and flagging of issues ­ through ratings- provides the opportunity to act to address
        the underlying problems before it is too late. If the ISR periodic rating had
        reflected the delays and challenges faced, the project may have been restructured
        much earlier with a chance to improve its results.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                                20

The MoP (Now the Ministry of SOE Reform and Young Entrepreneurs) prepared two
completion reports on the project: a synthesis report which is attached in Annex 7 and a
detailed report (25 pages) which is available on file. The reports provide a brief historical
overview of the project but focus mostly on the final extension phase, highlighting the
delays in implementation that faced that period and presenting the MoP's perspective.

(b) Cofinanciers- N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society) - N/A




                                            21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

CAPACITY BUILDING &
SUPPORT TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE                    9.1                6.39             70

PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
PRIVATIZATION &
REGULATORY REFORMS IN
THE INFRASTRUCTURE                       7.8                6.43             82

SECTOR
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       0.70               1.24            177


            Total Baseline Cost        17.6                14.06            79.9

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      1.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs       18.6                14.06            75.6
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required         18.60               14.06




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        2.00         0.00         0.00
International Development
Association (IDA)                               18.60        14.06        75.6




                                           22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

I- Component One: Capacity Building and Support for the Implementation of the
Privatization Program (US$ 9.8 million PAD, US$ 7.63 million actual)


(i) Capacity Building of CCPP and Support of Privatization Program Implementation

This sub-component had two key activities:

    1- Support to Privatization of the following commercial companies

Abattoir Frigorifique de Niamey: A loss-making enterprise, the Abbatoir was brought to
a point of sale in 1999; however, there were no bidders. IDA and the GoN considered
options to revitalize the company to make it more appealing. Following an initial set of
TORs to carry out a study on privatization options for the Abbatoir that were not
approved by the Bank, a revised set of TORs for a consultant to carry out a study were re-
submitted by CCPP for Bank's approval April 2002. The study would have included two
options, as suggested by IDA, which were (i) refurbishment of the existing
slaughterhouse or (ii) building a brand new facility. "Expression of Interest" was to be
published in June 2002. While the two options were being considered, the Inter-
Ministerial Privatization Committee, estimating that the chances of a successful
privatization of the existing slaughterhouse were small, decided to drop this company
from the list.

OFEDES (Office des Eaux du Sous ­ Sol): After an initial round of bidding in November
2002 that was not fruitful, the GoN decided to change its privatization strategy to a direct
asset sale. Also, the Government decided to lower the shares for sale from 70 percent to
51 percent. In January 2004, the company's assets were purchased by a bid led by a
Canadian Firm (FORDEM) in association with a local company, Hama Kiota. It should
be noted that FORDEM was the only pre-qualified company to present a proposal.
Conditions of sale included a 25 percent increase in capital from FCFA 80 million to
FCFA 100 million, the payment of all salaries in arrears estimated at FCFA 753 million,
and a commitment by the new owners to give priority to recruit workers of the ex-
OFEDES in the new company which was renamed FORDEM-OFEDES. A dispute
emerged between the two new owners which resulted in no new investments as of the end
of 2005.

RINI (Société Le Riz du Niger) : A local consulting firm was recruited to assess the
company's value in May 2001. However, there was an ongoing dispute related to the
ownership rights of the company's real estate titles involving the inheritors of a former
President. Ultimately, the GoN decided to drop this firm from the privatization list.

SPEHG Société Propriétaire et Exploitante de l'Hôtel (Gawaye Hotel): The hotel was
built in 1981 to meet the standards of 4-star international hotels and the need of a
luxurious hotel in the capital. It had been historically managed by SOFITEL under the



                                            23

Accor Brand name. Once it was decided to place the company on the privatization list,
an accounting firm, KMC, was recruited to audit the financial statements. Based on the
audit report produced in May 2002, the GoN decided to proceed with a concession
agreement. The first bidding process resulted at the end of 2002 only one expression of
interest. With this weak result, the Government decided to re-bid in January 2003 to
broaden the scope of investors. This was more successful with three companies pre-
qualified. Eventually two of those (INGRA and Accor) presented proposals. Later,
INGRA withdraw its proposal. The Government continued the negotiations with Accor
Group. However, in late 2003, negotiations between Government and Accor broke down
on the treatment of cross debts amount resulting from past management liabilities and
hotel refurbishing bills. After the failure of negotiations with the Group Accor, the
Government launched a program of internal restructuring through the appointment of a
new General Manager.

SLMTP: (The Société de Location du Matériel des Travaux Publics): was added to the
privatization list through an Inter-Ministerial Committee decision in 2002. SLMTP stems
from the transformation of the "Direction du matériel des travaux publics" (DMTP) into
an independent company equipment leasing company. The business of the new company
is the maintenance, acquisition and the lease of public works equipment. The Project
assisted in preparing the Expression of Interest in February 2002 and the privatization
process was completed by December 2002. Maraba Trading Company was the preferred
bidder and was awarded the company on December 31, 2002. The privatization strategy
involved opening up the capital on the one hand by transferring a majority of 51 percent
to a strategic investor along with the sale of 30 percent to the small national investors and
maintaining 19 percent shareholding by the Government. The implementation of national
shareholding program remains difficult due to the weakness of the national financial
system and the non-existence of a local investment culture. The Privatization Impact
Assessment Study of 2005 concluded that SMLTP was not yet able to offer adequate
service due the numerous breakdowns and that these problems were seriously affecting
the cash flow of the company. Significant investment in the equipment upgrade remained
to be done.

Privatizations Prior to Project: There were two additional firms on the 1997 Privatization
list: SOLANI (Dairy Products) and SNC (Cement). These were not in the PAD indicators
since they had already been privatized by then but are worth discussing given that during
project preparation, advice was provided to assist in these transactions that were carried out
by the CCPP. IDA viewed these transactions as having been conducted in a transparent and
competitive manner. Following is a brief synopsis of these two transactions:

                OLANI (Office de Lait): SOLANI was sold in 1998 to the FAN Milk
                Niger ­ Fan Milk International Group as a total divestiture. The Group
                Fan Milk then renamed the enterprise SOLANI. The initial personnel was
                kept but reinforced with management from the private sector. Since return
                to normal activity following divestiture, the production capacity has
                almost doubled, after an internally financed investment program. The
                2005 Privatization Impact Study concluded that the investment needs



                                              24

                remain important (renewing and increasing production capacity). The lack
                of external financing had slowed down growth.

                SNC (Société Nigerienne de Cimenterie): SNC was sold to SCANCEM
                International in association with private Nigerien investors in August 1998
                This transaction was accompanied with an increase in capital of FCFA
                400 million. Investments reached a level of FCFA 1.063 billions at
                December 2004 - nearly four times the initial forecasted investment of 342
                million. These investments drastically increased the production capacity
                to 80 000 tons that doubled actual production in three years to reach the
                level of 54 763 tons in 2002. SNC was also able to clean up its financial
                situation such as arrears of more than FCFA 1.3 billion inherited before
                privatization. The employee shareholding scheme foreseen by the
                privatization agreement has not been implemented yet but is still an
                objective. SNC suffers from irregularity and insufficiency of electric
                energy supply. The company has been obliged to invest into alternate
                solutions, burdening its profitability and lowering actual production in
                recent years.

SONIDEP: Société Nigerienne de Produits Petroliers (Petroleum Distribution
Company): SONIDEP was one of the main target enterprises of the Privatization
Program. Indeed, in 1998, its sales turnover of FCFA 36.6 billion was double that of
NIGELEC and higher still from SONITEL and SNE, the three main utility SOEs slated
for privatization. SONIDEP holds an official monopoly on the import and resale of oil
products and is mandated to ensure the regular supply and the safe storage of
hydrocarbons and derivative products in Niger. The issue of SONIDEP's privatization
was also part of a broader IMF-IDA agenda to liberalize oil imports and allow
competition. The official monopoly on oil imports from Benin had resulted in unofficial
imports that avoided trade taxes from Nigeria which were estimated to be substantially
more than the official oil flows. This had significant budgetary implications through the
uncollected trade taxes.


It was envisaged that by March 1999 a contract of the private management of
SONIDEP's stocks would be completed. Similar to the other transactions discussed, the
calendar for the preparation of the bid documents and the sale were delayed for a number
of years due to changing governmental priorities and strong internal resistance to
SONIDEP privatization. Finally, following protracted discussions in February 2002, the
privatization process was launched under a complex formula that would award the
majority of shares to a private investors (includes international oil companies and
independent distributors), non-oil private investors, a share for SONIDEP workers, and
about a third for the state. A bidding process was launched under this framework which
was to be completed by mid-2003. Six months later, the bidding finally took place and
two international firms expressed interest. However no financial offers were made due to
what was perceived as a lack of sufficient financial and technical information.
Subsequent to this, IDA tried to arrange an acceptable agreement between the interested



                                             25

investors, the GoN, and SONIDEP's management. However, the negotiations faced a
number of stumbling blocks covering variety of sensitive areas, including:

    · Control of management of SONIDEP

    ·   Access to required technical and financial information to make the necessary
        projections

    ·   Determination of the oil price margin

    ·   Treatment of Government debt to the company

    ·   Transfer of assets at the end of the concession contract

Eventually at the end of 2004, the negotiations were discontinued. Even though
SONIDEP was not formally dropped from the privatization list, it was clear that, for a
variety of reasons, this transaction would not proceed and this was acknowledged by IDA
in the final extension period which dropped SONIDEP privatization as an indicator.
Instead, Quality Management training was provided to SONIDEP in that period to
prepare the company for eventual ISO certification.

Although it was not been privatized, SONIDEP's financial and commercial performance
continued to improve as can be viewed with the following figures:

                               SONIDEP Financial Summary

                                   (In Millions of FCFAs)

                  1998        1999        2000       2001         2002       2003       2004

 Sales          36,615.84 37,781.10 50,853.51 45,017.59 48,187.93 55,258.76 64,428.60

 Net Profits     162.92      527.44       91.49      94.33       515.99    1,044.83    1,620.75



This outstanding performance (more than doubling of sales and 10 times in profits) can
be explained by the:

    · Presence of strong General Manager who launched a vast program of internal
        restructuring.

    · High Oil Prices During that Period

    · Low Overhead Costs for a company that runs on margin and had a total workforce
        of approximately 150 workers

However, these same factors do not provide a stable basis for the company's long-term
profitability. And the larger issue of reform in the overall oil sector remains unresolved
with the CEM estimating that unofficial petroleum imports costs the treasury FCFA 30
billion in 2003.



                                              26

    2- Capacity Building of CCPP:

The second activity under this sub-component was the capacity building for the CCPP to
implement the privatization program. Through the Project, the CCPP had benefited from
several training programs in privatization issues as well as consultants who had advised
on what is entailed in a privatization process such as: TORs preparation, preparing
requests for proposal, organizing investor conference, evaluating bids, ensuring
transparency in transactions, the roles of accountants, lawyers, financial advisors, etc.
The Project also provided training to general staff of the MoP and the MoF. There is
recognition that the privatization transactions handled by CCPP were much more
professional and transparent than earlier transactions before the Project preparation
commenced. However, there were a number of factors that hampered the sustainability
of the capacity realized and the effectiveness of CCPP:

            -  The first two CCPP coordinators were selected through political
               appointments which made them subject to political influences and changes
               at the Ministry and this contributed to turnover in CCPP staff in parallel
               with turnovers in the MoP officials. At IDA's insistence, the CCPP
               selection process for the final two coordinators (from 2002) was done
               competitively.
            -  The complexity of the privatization process itself and the variety of sectors
               involved demanded highly qualified staff which was difficult to find.
            -  New staff required extensive training and support. The high turnover at
               CCPP at all levels (Coordinator, Procurement, Accounting, Office
               Administration) meant that the Project had to re-train new staff in complex
               subject matters.
            -  As the Project progressed with the additional extensions and the
               uncertainty about the future, there was a loss of a momentum and CCPP's
               performance and effectiveness declined correspondingly. For example,
               CCPP was disbanded in December 2004 in preparation for Project closing.
               After the fourth extension was approved in June 2005, it took until the end
               of 2005 to reconstitute the CCPP team

At the end of the Project, the CCPP Unit was disbanded. Given that the MoP has been
renamed to reflect a focus on Enterprise Reforms, there are no plans to reconstitute a
similar unit. However, several former CCPP members transferred to ARM, including the
former project coordinator who now works as Director of Regulation, applying the skills
gained and managing donor support programs for ARM.

The MoP has a Directorate for SOE Portfolio Management and Restructuring, Direction
du Portefeuille de l'Etat et de la Restructuration. The Directorate was in charge of
collecting data on SOE performance, suggesting action plans for improved performance,
and liaising with line Ministries. It was to receive capacity building support in the area of
corporate governance strengthening and portfolio management of SOEs in the final
extension phase though this did not materialize due to disagreements with the Bank on
the scope of the technical assistance. The Directorate continues to be under-staffed with



                                             27

minimal information systems and capacity to carry out its mandate. It is currently
awaiting the outcome of the new Ministry Organization to receive its future mandate.

(ii) Communications Strategy

This sub-component had as its goal the launching of a communications and public
information campaign by December 1999. This was drawing on the lessons learned from
previous privatization efforts of the late 80s where it was perceived that one of the
reasons the effort did not succeed was due to lack of proper information and
communication with the public at large. The Communication work involved developing
a national Communication Strategy for different types of media in both French and local
languages. The Strategy was officially launched in May 1999. The Communication
Strategy was endorsed at the highest political levels and was aimed to reach out at
various interested groups including local investors, labor unions, and the overall general
public. Despite these efforts, the 2005 Privatization Impact Assessment Report
concluded that public opinion in Niger was divided and unconvinced of the privatization
effort. To be sure, communication strategy alone cannot resolve intractable issues such
affordability of service vs. profitability of enterprise, desire for national ownership vs.
need for foreign investment. Nor could a communication strategy overcome the
opposition of powerful vested interests.

(iii) Worker Retrenchment Program

The only retrenchment program supported by the Project was in the case of SONITEL
privatization (discussed in detail in the next section). The Retrenchment scheme of 354
out of 1,335 employees was completed successfully for a total cost of US$ 2.1 million. It
is not clear the workers affected received supervision or support afterwards.

(iv) Business Environment Strengthening Activities

As mentioned earlier, the Project's second amendment added the following business
environment activities under this Component:

    1. Preparing studies and providing support to activities designed to develop the
        private sector

    2. Strengthening the capacity of the export promotion agency (ANIPEX), the
        Nigerien Private Investor Council (CNIP), the Chamber of Commerce, and the
        Centre for Formalization

The Project developed the workprogram for this activity in partnership with the Ministry
of Commerce and Trade. The Project funded the recruitment of a facilitator by the
Ministry of Commerce to assist in these studies. TORs were developed by the two
committees. FIAS provided technical advice on the taxation and investment code studies
TORs. However, due to the delay in the launching of the activities and the uncertainty of




                                               28

future extensions, the Bank did not issue any non-objections for these activities and none
materialized before project closing.

Component Rating

The overall rating for this Component is Unsatisfactory. From the original list of five
commercial SOEs, four were not privatized and the one that was privatized has been
plagued with a dispute among the new owners. One new SOE was added to the list and
was privatized though its growth has been hampered by lack of adequate investment.
The capacity built at CCPP is lost with the unit disbanding, though some staff transferred
to the ARM. The MoP remains weak and under-staffed and its status is yet to be clarified
under the new Ministry name. The communications strategy though well-designed did
not appear to make a perceptible difference in public's perception of privatization. The
worker retrenchment program was largely un-disbursed since the majority of target SOEs
were not privatized. The activities envisaged in the final 18-month extension for business
environment improvement did not materialize.

Component Two: Privatization and Reform of Infrastructure Sectors (US$ 7.8
million PAD, US$ 6.43 million actual)

(i) Telecommunications Sector

The Telecom Sector Sub-Component had the following three goals:

    · Define sector strategy and establish regulatory framework
    · Implement sale of majority shareholding of SONITEL to a strategic investor.
    · Complete strategic study on the postal sector and the postal savings institution.

Background

At the beginning of the Project, the telecommunications sector in Niger suffered from:

(i) Poor access to services, in particular in rural areas. SONITEL, the public
telecommunications company, provided inadequate coverage of services (1.6 lines per
100 inhabitants), with the vast majority of Nigeriens lacking access to telephone services.

(ii) Chronic lack of investment capital to expand the network and poor cash flow
SONITEL had lost money every year since 1991 despite its monopolistic position.
Approximately one-third of the SONITEL lines in service are used by the GoN and the
Government frequently did not pay for telephone services.

(iii) Inadequate regulatory and institutional arrangements for the sector. Detailed
regulations on tariffs and price adjustments, interconnection, service quality and roll-out
requirements, competitive safeguards, spectrum management, consumer protection and




                                              29

universal service obligations were all lacking and needed to be elaborated as part of the
reform process.

The GoN introduced an updated telecom policy in 1997 which called for market
liberalization and introduction of private participation in the sector. According to the
SONITEL privatization strategy, 51 percent of SONITEL shares would go to a strategic
investor, 11 percent of the shares would be sold to Nigerien institutional investors, 3
percent to SONITEL employees, and the remainder would be retained by the Government.
The Government also intended to introduce two mobile licenses and complete its strategy
for rural telecommunications. The new telecom law also made references to the ARM and
its regulatory role of the telecom sector.

The project provided technical assistance in the development of the new
telecommunications law that passed in 1999. The law aimed to establish a proc-
competitive environment, to foster access, investment, and reducing prices through
competition. It also established a framework for awarding mobile licenses. The GoN
launched the mobile licensing earlier than the SONITEL Privatization. With the Project's
assistance, CCPP supervised the competitive awarding of two the mobile licenses to
Telecel and MSI on August 12, 2000. CCPP also oversaw the awarding of a third license
to Celtel in 2001.

SONITEL Privatization

SONITEL's Privatization took place on December 2001 and was awarded to Libyan-
Chinese Consortium ZTE (51 percent of shares), with the GoN maintaining 47.61 percent
and employees holding 3 percent. This transaction led to the implementation of the
worker retrenchment scheme with 354 retrenchees (105 early retirees and 249 departures)
out of 1,335 employees for a total cost of FCFA 4.27 billions.

The current situation of the company remains unsatisfactory. For the new owners, the
implementation of their business plan has been hampered by:

        The non ­ implementation of new SONITEL tariffs rates

        SONITEL arrears by Government: up to 15 billion FCFA;

        The non ­ availability of an Opening Balance Sheet for SONITEL that makes
     the finalization of SONITEL financial statements impossible;

        Unclear clear title to land which blocks ability to secure financing

        The lack of maintenance during the privatization process for conservation reasons
     has worsened the condition of equipment.

        Human Resources management challenges between the new expatriate
     management and the existing personnel.



                                             30

The ongoing management problems did not permit the company to tackle the challenges
in the telecommunication sector with the result that public opinion is critical regarding
the performance since service quality has not improved. The company has not increased
the level of service in telecommunications. There has been minimal growth in the number
of line subscribers from approximately 16,000 to 24,000, which contrasts with the rapid
development of the mobile sector. The financial performance of SONITEL continues to
be weak and erratic as demonstrated by the flat sales levels and the fluctuating
profitability from 1998 through 2004:

                           SONITEL Financial Summary

                              (In Millions of FCFAs)
                 1998       1999      2000      2001        2002      2003    2004
  Sales          14,921 13,329 12,691 14,302                15,676 15,140 15,300
  Net Profits    457        554       6,448     (19,310) 1,579        3,206   1,271


During the final extension period of the Project, it was planned that the project would
finance the services of a mediator to resolve the dispute between the new owners and the
GoN. However this did not materialize.

Mobile Sector

The arrival of new operators in the mobile sector boosted the newly liberalized sector, as
shown by the increase in the number of new subscribers from 2000-2004.

                               Increase in Mobile Subscribers

                  140.000,00

                  120.000,00                                      117.831,00

                  100.000,00
                                                         78.510,00
                   80.000,00

                   60.000,00                   57.541,00

                   40.000,00  19.991,0027.409,00
                   20.000,00

                        0,00
                               2000       2001       2002      2003      2004


                            SONITEL                    SAHELCOM
                            CELTEL                     TELECEL
                            TOTAL MOBILE               TOTAL




Recent data indicate that there are 300,000 subscribers in 2005 and this is slated to
continue to grow substantially over the coming years. It is anticipated that one of the



                                                31

main mobile companies is planning a FCFA 25 billion investment in 2007. Mobile
network coverage is expected to be available throughout the country in the near
term. As a result of the increase in mobile usage, the overall tele-density rate (number of
lines / 100 inhabitants) has increased from 0.16 percent at project start to 2.4 percent in
2005. By contrast, the increase in fixed line density has been marginal going from 0.16
percent to 0.2 percent. The mobile sub-sector is not without its challenges, however, with
call rates still high, a virtual duopoly between the two dominant plays, and the fact that
calling between networks is not possible, necessitating multiple phones per user.

Access to Information Communication in Rural Areas

The project was to support a strategy for promoting access to telecommunications in rural
areas. The selection process for consultants to assist in this task was under way in 2002
when the GoN requested to freeze this undertaking. Most recently, during the final
extension phase, the Project prepared a Universal Access Study for ARM proposing a
national strategy for access to telecom. The Study is being reviewed by ARM for further
consideration.

Postal Sector

The Project was to support preparation of a diagnostic study on the postal sector and the
postal savings institution as these were under the Ministry of Telecommunications. While
no activities in the postal sector were undertaken under the Project, the postal study was
undertaken by the Financial Sector Development Project. This led to a major
restructuring of the post office and postal financial services.

The Frequency Management System

The frequency management system for telecommunications was delivered and installed
with a cost of US$ 1.28 million in 2005. It is functioning and generating income for
ARM.

(ii)    Water Sector

The Water Sector Sub-Component had the following goals:

                   ·     Finalize sector strategy
                   ·     Implement the lease-contract for water urban services
                   ·     Finalize sector investment program

The Société Nationale de I 'Eau (SNE - National Water Corporation) was created in 1987
as an autonomous and self-supporting public enterprise, responsible for developing the
urban water sub-sector, improving water service coverage and ensuring resource
management. However, management instability was a major constraint in the continuity
of policies and strategies within the SOE and had a negative impact on the performance.


                                               32

At the time of project preparation, the tariff was far from achieving target of covering all
SNE costs related to operations, depreciation and renewal, as well as new investments.
SNE charged high connection fees for new customers (between 50,000 and 200,000
FCFA). The combination of high fees, lengthy procedures for obtaining a service
connection and the poor coverage of the network limited development of new
connections and forced households to use other sources of water and pay very high
prices.

The privatization of SNE was part of an overall urban water sector reform that sought to:
(a) improve the technical and financial performance of the sector, with a view to reducing
operating costs; (b) introduce private sector commercial management; (c) increase water
coverage through development of production and distribution systems and quality
improvements; and (d) attain financial autonomy in the medium term to support
implementation of investment programs without resorting to Government subsidies The
originally planned privatization option for SNE was a lease-contract. After discussion
with GoN, a lease "affermage" contract was selected as the appropriate privatization
option .

The institutional and contractual for the affermage contract involved four participants: (a)
the Government, responsible for defining sectoral policy, managing water resources, and
developing tariff policy (taking into account socio-economic constraints and the need for
financial equilibrium in the sector); (b) the Multi-sectoral Regulatory Agency, ARM,
responsible for developing a regulatory framework, monitoring water service and
contractual arrangements among stakeholders; (c) a public asset holding company,
Société de Patrimoine des Eaux du Niger (SPEN); and (d) a private operator, Société d
'Exploitation des Eaux du Niger (SEEN). SPEN was created as an SOE in August 2000 to
take over functions related to ownership of facilities, debt service, planning and
control/supervision of rehabilitation, renewal, and extension of infrastructure. It is also
responsible for controlling the quality of water services and developing public awareness.

SEEN would be responsible for (a) production, transmission and distribution of potable
water in urban areas; (b) funding and implementation of an infrastructure rehabilitation
and renewal program under a specific contract (on an annual basis); and (c)
implementation of some rehabilitation and extension works funded by the asset holding
company. The lease contract gives the private operator exclusive rights to produce and
distribute potable water in all urban centers of the leased area for a 10-year period. 51
percent of SEEN would be held by an international operator, 34 percent by Nigerien
investors, 10 percent by employees, and 5 percent by the state. These reforms were
reflected in the Water Sector Law 2000-12 which was passed.

CCPP successfully managed the award of the affermage contract for SEEN in December
2000 to Veolia (formerly Vivendi) with water sale price at FCFA 190/m3 and FCFA 3.4
billion investment. The contract was signed on March 20, 2001. After this privatization,
the planned reforms in the water sector were carried forward through a US$ 48 million
water sector investment program financed by several institutions (IDA, BOAD, AFD)
and implemented by SPEN. This project had improved the overall management of the



                                              33

sector in terms of service quality, technical efficiency (reduction of water losses) and cost
recovery (bill collection). The following table provides a synopsis of the results
achieved over the past five years.

Performance Indicators for the Water sector, Water Sector Project, December 2006

Indicators                             Dec-02   Dec-03      Dec-04      Dec-05     Dec-06
Impact indicator

Increase in urban
population with access to
improved water supplies                35 850   142 630     223 810     248 300    302 700

Financial equilibrium of
urban water (positive                                                              Equilibrium
operating cash flow)        In progress                                            achieved
Output indicators

Installation of 11 200 new
« social connections » in
urban area                             700      11 220      11 220      11 688     11 688

Installation of 556 new
public fountains                                            244         261        261
Reduce unaccounted-for-
water by 5 points (i.e.
Technical efficiency of the
urban water distribution
networks increased from
80% in 2001 to 85% in
2006.                                  80%      82%         83%         84%        85%



As can be seen, nearly 300,000 additional urban residents gained access to improved
water services. Financial equilibrium was achieved in December 2006 thanks to
efficiency gains from the sector reform (reduction of water losses, improvement of the
bill collection ratio) and the application of the agreed tariff policy. The only one critical
issue that could affect the reform is associated with the payment of Government agencies
water bills. All payment arrears as of December 2006 (FCFA 2.2 billion) had been
cleared by the Government on March 14, 2007 as a condition of effectiveness of the
Additional Financing for the Water Sector Project. Moving forward, the Water Project is
working with the GoN on a schedule for agreed fixed monthly payments for government
use of water.

However, this sub-component was not without its challenges, as the relationship between
ARM and SPEN and SEEN faced some difficulties during the first years of the contract.
Furthermore, there was also some hostility to the privatization from the general public
due to the gradual increase in tariffs from 238 FCFA /m3 in 2001 to 309 FCFA /m3 in
2006, a 30 percent increase. This though needed to be compared against the low access
that was present and the fact that many households had to arrange for their own water
provision and transport at much higher cost. More importantly, the water tariff in Niger is
still very low compared to neighboring countries (half of the average tariff in the sub-
region). In the final analysis the water privatization can be judged as successful. One
critical factor in this was that the technical specialist in charge of the water privatization


                                               34

was also the task team leader for the water sector project; this provided for seamless
integration.

(iii) Electricity Sector

The Electricity Sector Sub-Component had the following goals:

    · Finalize sector strategy
    · Prepare regulatory framework including tariff regimes, service quality targets and
        investment obligations for the private sector,
    · Conclude concession agreement for NIGELEC

The issue of NIGELEC privatization in Niger needs to be considered with reference to
the state-to-state agreement between Niger and Nigeria dating back to 1977, under which
NEPA, Nigeria's state electricity company, supplies 90 percent of Niger's electricity
needs through NIGELEC at preferential pricing. This preferential pricing guarantees
comfortable margins for NIGELEC and a supply to the country, though it acts as a
disincentive to improve service quality.

The first two rounds of attempted NIGELEC privatizations (in 2002) yielded
disappointing results as only two investors expressed interest, one being NEPA itself and
the other a French investor. There were a number of reasons for lack of investor interest.
First was the power supply agreement between Niger and Nigeria which made investors
wary of coming in. The second was the situation of the global energy markets in 2001
and 2002 following the collapse of Enron which dampened investor appetite to make new
investments in the sector.

The privatization process was then put on hold pending the introduction of a new
electricity law. The Law 2003-04 was passed in January 2003, stipulating that the
production, transport, and distribution of electricity will be delegated through a
concession. The privatization process was then re-activated but did not come to fruition
as the bids put forward were not considered valid due to lack of information from the
bidders. Following this breakdown, the Bank tried to propose an "affermage" type of
arrangement to make the deal more palatable to foreign investors, but the authorities did
not agree as the electricity law stipulated a concession.

By 2004, it was becoming clear that the authorities were unlikely to proceed with the
privatization of NIGELEC and this was acknowledged by the Bank. In the final extension
phase, one indicator was that investment costs and investments options for NIGELEC are
analyzed through a comprehensive study that would also explore options for attracting
new investment in the sector. However, these studies did not materialize before project
closing.


ARM: Regulatory Framework for Water, Electricity, Telecom, and Transportation




                                              35

As part of the regulatory reform, ARM was created by Ordonnance 99-044 in October
1999 which gave it regulatory powers over water, energy, telecom, and transport sectors.
Future electricity, telecom, and water laws (discussed in the previous sections) made
reference to ARM as the regulator in the future liberalized sectors. The idea was the
ARM would be an arm's length regulator who can act independently. The project
provided significant capacity building support to ARM (equipment, training, studies).
The Project also assisted ARM in developing a 3-year business plan. Many of the former
CCPP staff moved to ARM and worked in related sectors.

ARM's establishment was resisted by the other line ministries of Energy and Mining,
Hydraulic and Water, and Communication. Also, even through ARM was created by
decree in 1999 it took nearly four years for the President of ARM to be appointed along
with the sector directors. Due to the fact that the NIGELEC transaction did not
materialize, ARM does not exercise any authority over the energy sector. Likewise,
ARM is not involved in the transport sector.

As ARM was absent while private operators were coming onto the scene in the water and
telecom sectors, it experienced difficulties imposing its mandate. There were also
concerns that the senior appointments were politically motivated. In response, the Project
provided significant capacity building support to ARM and the Project also assisted ARM
in developing a 3-year business plan. ARM has recently gained credibility especially in
the telecommunication sector where it has been most active. It has a clearly defined role
in telecom in dispute resolution, frequency management, and licenses issuing. ARM has
also started recovering its costs from connection fees charged. Further, ARM benefited
from three project studies in the final project period on: issuing licenses, universal access,
and an organizational audit. Its role in the water sector has been through monitoring the
implementation of the affermage contract and it is expected that it would continue to play
this oversight in any future adjustment or extensions to the affermage contract. ARM
continues to work with various donor to enhance its capacity; for example, in March
2007, ARM participated in Public-Private Infrastructure Support Facility-sponsored
training in Niger on economic and financial models for the water and energy sectors.

Component Rating

The overall rating for this component is Moderately Satisfactory. The water sector
witnessed significant improvements which was triggered by the "affermage" contract and
carried forward by a sister bank water sector project. The telecom sector's results are
mixed with the mobile sub-sector growth and new investments on the one hand and the
continued stagnation of SONITEL's performance on the other hand. NIGELEC's
privatization did not materialize despite long efforts in this area. ARM is emerging as a
credible regulator for telecom and water whose role is likely to be sustained.




                                              36

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

The PAD forecasted the NPV and rate of return by analyzing the expected Project costs
and benefits. The total Project costs, including the GoN contribution, were estimated to
be US$ 20 million. The expected benefits were to arise from:

 a) Newly Created Employment Opportunities in the private sector: With privatization,
     the private sector employment share was expected to increase and has been estimated on
     the basis of expected additional job creation due to new investment and increased
     demand for services.
 b) Benefits in Productivity and Output: Gains were expected from higher total factor
     productivity, resulting from expected changes in work ethics, training, better
     management, better equipment and new technology.
 c) Consumer Surplus (Gains in Price and Tariff): Benefits to the consumer were
     expected in the form of adjusted price/tariffs and improved service quality, wider
     coverage due to competition and private sector involvement.
 d) Benefits from the Retrenchment Program: include the additional contribution to the
     economy that the workers would be able to make (a) by working where there is an
     effective demand for their services, and or (b) by developing their own economic
     activities.

Based on these various benefits and assumptions related to completion of all
privatization transactions, improved company performance, increased private sector
investment and employment, and enhanced access and quality of utility services, the
PAD forecasted an internal rate of return of 28.7 percent with an NPV ranging from US$
13.2 million to US$ 30.3, depending on the discount rate used.

For the ICR purposes, it has been difficult to reconstruct the NPV/IRR model used due to
lack of data and the non-realization of most of the underlying assumptions. Therefore, the
next section will briefly touch on the project's benefits and costs from a mainly
qualitative point of view.

For the newly created employment opportunities, estimates are that there are up to 2000
direct and indirect jobs generated in the mobile sub-sector. There is no evidence or data
to suggest that new jobs were generated in other private sector entities (such as SMEs) as
a result of the project's intervention. This is partially the result of the limited number of
privatizations that had taken place and the limited investment that did occur in the
privatized companies ­ apart from the mobile sub-sector. For benefits in productivity
and output, it is difficult to quantify those for the privatized enterprises and for the
remaining SOEs. The consumer surplus was to come from improved service quality and
affordability. In the telecom sector, the tariffs remain high for both fixed and mobile
lines, while the service quality, especially for fixed lines, remains poor. In the water
sector, there has been improved service quality though at a higher price. There has been
little change in electricity tariffs while service remains poor due to electricity cuts.
Finally, the retrenchment program benefits were likely not realized for two reasons: first,
the program itself was only used in the SONITEL for 354 employees and second, there



                                               37

was no tracking of what happened to those workers. On the cost side, the project
expended significant resources on trying to complete the SONIDEP and NIGELEC
transactions which did not materialize. Also, the costs of project management were
much higher than forecasted due to the repeated extensions and the high turnover,
necessitating re-training of new staff.

In conclusion, while no NPV or IRR is being calculated, it is unlikely that the project met
the appraisal NPV/IRR.




                                            38

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Heidi Mattila              Adviser                             LCSPF TTL (1998-2001)
Herve Assah                Senior Private Sector Development   AFTPS TTL (2001-2005)
Michaela Weber             Private Sector Development          AFTPS TTL (2005-2006)
Mazen Bouri               Young Professional                   AFTPS ICR

Matar Fall                Lead Water and Sanitation
                          Specialist                         ETWWA Water

Fatiha Amar               Program Assistant                    ECSPF
Mourad Belguedj           Lead Energy Specialist              COCPO Energy
Philippe Charles Benoit   Lead Specialist                     AFTEG
Barbara Weber              Senior Operations Officer          AFTRL QK
Eric Jean Yoboue           Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC Procurement
Ivan Rossingol            Senior Private Sector Development    AFTPS Cluster Leader
Henri A. Aka               Procurement Spec.                   AFTPC Procurement
Jean Paul Gauthier        ET Consultant                        FIAS Investment Climate
Yann Burtin               Senior Operations Officer            CITPO Telecom
Jean Michel Marchat        Private Sector Development          AFTPS Investment Climate
Wolfgang Chadab           Finance Officer                     LOAG2 Disbursement
Mariama Daifour Ba        Program Assistant                   AFMNE
Veronique Gorce Devincenti E T Temporary                       AFTPS
Amadou Ibrahim            Economist                            AFTP4 Public Sector
Michel E. Layec            Lead Energy Economist              AFTEG Energy
Isselmou Ould Louleid     Junior Professional Associate        AFTPS
Rekiatou Oumarou Idrissa   Temporary                          AFMNE
Yao Wottor                Procurement Spec.                    LCSPT Procurement
Mamadou Yaro              Sr Financial Management Specia      AFTFM Financial Mgmt



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                   233.55
  FY99                                                                    56.35
  FY00                                          6                         50.62
  FY01                                                                     0.00



                                           39

 FY02                                  0.00
 FY03                                  0.00
 FY04                                  0.00
 FY05                                  0.00
 FY06                                  0.00
 FY07                                  0.00
                   Total:      6    340.52
Supervision/ICR
 FY98                                 10.80
 FY99                                162.67
 FY00                         65    206.85
 FY01                         36    104.74
 FY02                         41    106.53
 FY03                         35    154.85
 FY04                         33      96.99
 FY05                         27    111.72
 FY06                         37    181.68
 FY07                         18      67.61
                   Total:    292    1204.44




                            40

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
N/A

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
N/A




                                    41

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

        REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
               ***************
      FRATERNITE TRAVAIL PROGRES
               ****************
MINISTERE DE LA PROMOTION DES JEUNES
ENTREPRENEURS ET DE LA REFORME DES
        ENTREPRISES PUBLIQUES
               ***************
           SECRETARIAT GENERAL



                                   CREDIT 3130 NIR
    PROJET D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE A LA PRIVATISATION ET A LA
                            REFORME REGLEMENTAIRE
                      RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
                                  (Rapport de Synthèse)




                                      Avril 2007

    I. Rappel

      Depuis 1996, le Niger s'est engagé dans un vaste programme visant au retrait
progressif de l'Etat des secteurs marchands au profit du Privé. Ainsi donc, douze (12)
entreprises ont été inscrites au Programme de Privatisation, composante essentielle du
programme économique et financier conclu avec les Institutions de Bretoon Woods.

      Pour la mise en oeuvre de ce programme, le Programme d'Assistance Technique à
la Privatisation et à la Réforme réglementaire a été initié, conclu et signé avec la Banque
Mondiale, le 30 septembre 1998. Il est entré en vigueur le 28 janvier 1999.

      La Cellule de Coordination du Programme de Privatisation, chargée de la mise en
oeuvre de ce programme, est arrivée à la fin de ses missions avec la clôture du projet le 31
décembre 2004.

      Cependant, beaucoup restait à faire car sur les douze (12) Entreprises inscrites
initialement au programme, sept (7) dossiers ont été bouclés : Société Nigérienne de
Cimenterie (SNC), Office du Lait du Niger (OLANI), Société Nigérienne de Textiles
(ENITEX), Société Nigérienne de Télécommunications (SONITEL), Société Nigérienne
des Eaux (SNE), Société de Location du Matériel des Travaux Publics (SLMTP) et
Office des Eaux du Sous-sol (OFEDES). Des dossiers importants et sensibles étaient
encore à relancer ou à poursuivre à fin 2004 comme la Société Nigérienne d'Electricité



                                            42

(NIGELEC), la Société Nigérienne des Produits Pétroliers (SONIDEP), l'HÔTEL
GAWEYE, la Société le Riz du Niger (RINI).

     C'est ainsi que le Projet d'Assistance Technique à la Privatisation et de la Réforme
Réglementaire a fait l'objet d'une prorogation exceptionnelle en 2005 pour une période
de dix huit (18) mois, soit du 01/07/05 au 31/12/06, pour permettre le parachèvement du
processus de Privatisation en cours.

     Une nouvelle Cellule a été installée en vue de la gestion des dossiers restants et par
la même occasion le Projet a fait l'objet de restructurations en 2006 pour prendre en
compte les préoccupations du secteur privé. Un plan d'activités détaillé a été établi.

     Le projet restructuré comporte deux (02) composantes : la composante « Gestion du
Projet » et la composante « Privatisation et Gouvernance d'Entreprise».

     Les deux composantes ont été structurées de la manière suivante :

            Gestion du Projet :

                · Sous composante Gestion du Projet ;
                · Sous composante Amélioration des Investissements ;
                · Sous composante Exportations.

            Privatisation et Gouvernance d'Entreprise :

                · Sous composante Gouvernance d'Entreprise ;
                · Sous composante Régulation.

A l'heure du bilan, certaines situations méritent d'être relevées :

   La mise en oeuvre de la restructuration du projet a été très difficile en raison de
   plusieurs rectifications au niveau du réaménagement des composantes. La célérité
   nécessaire dans l'examen des dossiers a fait également défaut, malgré les multitudes
   de réunions de mise au point dont celle de Washington tenue du 6 au 12 juin 2006 et
   qui autorisait l'exécution de toute demande de non objection dont la réponse ne
   parvenait pas dans un délai de 5 jours.

   Au vu du volume des tâches à exécuter, l'équipe de la Cellule avait réellement des
   difficultés pour coordonner les activités du Projet, ce qui a été ressenti à maintes
   occasions. Sur les six (06) cadres de départ, il n'y avait ni expert en passation de
   marchés ni comptable titulaires et le travail correspondant revenait dans les faits à la
   Responsable Administrative et Financière (RAF). Entre temps le projet a enregistré le
   départ de l'analyste financier, ce qui a justifié le recrutement d'un expert international
   en passation de marché, à temps partiel, pour appuyer la Cellule. Vers la fin du projet,
   un comptable a été recruté pour les besoins des opérations de clôture.




                                             43

Après la restructuration du projet, en plus du volet Privatisation et Gouvernance
d'Entreprises, les secteurs concernés ont été diversifiés : trois Ministères (Ministère
de la Privatisation et de la Restructuration des Entreprises (MP/RE) ; Ministère du
Commerce, de l'Industrie et de la Promotion du Secteur Privé (MCI/P/SP) ; Ministère
du Tourisme et de l'Artisanat (MT/A) ), l'Autorité de Régulation Multisectorielle
(A.R.M.), la Chambre de Commerce avec l'Agence Nigérienne pour la Promotion des
Exportations (ANIPEX), le Centre de Promotion des Investissements (CPI) et le
Centre de Formalités des Entreprises (CFE) ont constitué les différentes composantes
du Projet. Cette multitude d'interlocuteurs n'a pas facilité la coordination et la
conduite des activités.

A la réunion de juin 2006 à Washington, de nombreuses études ont été planifiées sur
une période courte. Environ, une vingtaine d'études ont été retenues, après la
restructuration, pour être conduites sur une période de 10 mois qui restaient à courir,
soit une moyenne de deux (02) études par mois. Certaines non objections ont été
accordées en septembre voire octobre 2006, ce qui             a rendu très difficile la
finalisation de ce qui a été programmé.

Le traitement des dossiers suit un cheminement qui s'étale sur plusieurs semaines :
demande de non objection, travaux en commissions d'analyse et d'évaluations des
offres. Cette procédure a souvent alourdi le traitement des dossiers.

II. Résultats du Projet et évaluation

    L'exécution financière du Projet a été faite conformément aux procédures de
    l'IDA en matière de gestion financière et de passation de marchés. Avec un
    reliquat total de crédit de 3.200.000.000 FCFA, qui a permis la continuation du
    Projet, un montant de 502.225.878 FCFA a été consommé, soit un taux de
    décaissement de 16 pourcent

    Des dispositions pratiques sont d'ores et déjà prises pour que la certification des
    comptes intervienne dans les délais et selon les règles en la matière.

    L'exécution du Projet a été confrontée à quelques difficultés et incompréhensions
    qui ont, quelques fois, émaillé le déroulement du processus :

        · Un traitement des dossiers en vase clos (par mails) entre la Coordonnatrice
            du projet et la Responsable à Washington sans que le Ministère de la
            Privatisation et de la Restructuration des Entreprises ou la Mission
            Résidente de la Banque Mondiale n'en soient informés, ne serait ce que
            pour des besoins de relance et suivi des dossiers ;

        · Une réaction quasi inexistante ou lente de la responsable du Projet à
            Washington sur la plupart des demandes de non objections. Sur une
            vingtaine d'études, seules quatre (04) ont pu aboutir ;




                                         44

           · Des tentatives de remise en cause des procédures arrêtées d'accord-parties.
                Il a été convenu, lors des missions de restructuration, de simplifier et
                d'accélérer les procédures pour tenir compte des contraintes de la clôture
                du Projet, ce qui a justifié le recrutement d'un consultant international,
                spécialiste de passation de marchés, le 15 août 2006, pour renforcer
                l'équipe du Projet.

        Les quatre (04) études réalisées sont :
           · Au niveau de l'A.R.M. :

                        Audit du fonctionnement et de l'organisation de l'ARM.
                        Etude sur la stratégie d'accès à l'universel ;
                        Etude sur l'octroi de nouvelles licences.

           · Au niveau de la SONIDEP

                        Etude sur la démarche qualité à travers le référentiel ISO 9001.

  III. Responsabilités et leçons à tirer de l'exécution du Projet

Les responsabilités respectives de l'Emprunteur et de la Banque dans la faiblesse des
résultats doivent évidemment être élucidées.

    Au niveau du Pays :

        · L'acceptation d'une restructuration du projet avec des activités relevant de
           plusieurs Ministères ou Structures qui a rendu difficile la gestion du Projet ;
        · Une équipe en sous-effectif pour des tâches urgentes à exécuter dans un délai
           court ;
        · Le nombre d'études à réaliser est très important par rapport au délai imparti.

    Au niveau du Prêteur :

        · Les réactions aux demandes de non objection ont été, dans la plupart des cas,
           très lentes et souvent inexistantes ;
        · Les procédures convenues, pour tenir compte de la contrainte du délai, n'ont
           pas été respectées ;
        · Des procédures irrégulières ont été privilégiées au détriment des contacts
           officiels ; les problèmes du Projet ont été gérés dans la plupart des cas, par
           courriel entre la responsable du Projet à Washington et la Coordonnatrice à
           l'insu de la tutelle et de la Représentation Résidente de la Banque Mondiale à
           Niamey.

Les comportements de ces deux (02) responsables n'ont pas permis d'apprécier, à leurs
justes valeurs, les performances du projet dans son ensemble.




                                              45

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                    46

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Aide Mémoires, Back to Office Reports, Project Supervision Reports,
      Implementation Status and Results Reports.

  2. Project Appraisal Document, Niger Privatization and Regulatory Reform
      Technical Assistance Project, August 14, 1998

  3. Development Credit Agreement, Niger Privatization and Regulatory Reform
      Technical Assistance Project, September 30, 1998

  4. Privatization Impact Assessment in Niger, September 2005

  5. Project d'Assistance technique a la privatisation et la reforme réglementaire:
      Rapport d'achèvement du projet, Ministère de la promotion des jeunes
      entrepreneurs et de la reforme des entreprise publiques, Avril 2007

  6. Implementation Completion Report, Niger Public Sector Adjustment Credit,
      August 26, 1998.

  7. Niger Country Assistance Strategy for 1998-2000, October 16, 1997

  8. Niger Country Assistance Strategy for 2003-2005, January 21, 2003

  9. Niger Country Economic Memorandum: Accelerating Growth and Achieving the
      Millennium Development Goals: Diagnosis and the Policy Agenda, June 30, 2006

  10. Niger: Une évaluation du Climat des Investissements, March 2007

  11. Project Appraisal Document, Niger Water Sector Project, April 9, 2001

  12. Project Paper for Additional Financing of the Niger Water Sector Project, May 30,
      2006




                                          47

