Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3156-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
November 17, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of ]
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. j



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit: Won
US$1.00        =  W 685
US$ 1 million  =  W 685 million
Won 1           =  US$0.00146
Won 1 million  =  US$1,460
Won I billion  =  US$1.46 million
Abbreviations
EPB      -   Economic Planning Board
FF       -   Fertilizer Fund
GMF      -   Grain Management Fund
KECO     -   Korea Electric Company
KEMCO    -   Korea Energy Management Corporation
KIER     -   Korea Institute of Energy and Resources
MER      -   Ministry of Energy and Resources
NACF     -   National Agricultutal Cooperative Federation
NIF      -   National Investment Fund
PEB      -   Project Evaluation Bureau
ERP      -   Effective Rate of Protection
LNG      -   Liquified Natural Gas
REU Law  -   Rationalization of Energy Law
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No,.
LOAN SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I - THE ECONOMY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A.  Past Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Adjustment to the First Oil Crisis . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C.  Developments in 1979 and 1980 ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    3
PART II -THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
A.  Initial Policy Adjustments. ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    5
B.  Medium-Term Program ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    6
C.  Improving Energy Efficiency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
D.  Improving Industrial Efficiency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
(i)  The Automobile Industry  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   16
(ii)  Restructuring the Heavy Machinery Sector ... . . . . . .   19
(iii) The Industrial Incentives System and Project
Appraisal Procedures ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   20
E.  Domestic Resource Mobilization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
PART III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
A. Loan History ........................ . 26
B.  Relationship Betweeen the Proposed Loan and Policy Reforms. .   27
C.  Benefits and Risks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
D.  Loan Amount . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .   34
E.  Categories of Goods to be Financed.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
F. Counterpart Funds .34
G.  Procurement and Disbursement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
H.  Relationship with IMF Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE
PROPOSED LOAN .....  .         ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   .   36
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
PART VI -RECOMMENDATION  ....  .           .  .    . ......  .   .  .  .  .  .    .   38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  1
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization._J



- ii. -
Page No.
ANNEXES
I.  Country Data ........................ .  39
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
III.  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  56
IV.  Government Letter of Development Policy  . . . . . . . . . . .  57
V.  Use of IMF Resources .  . .................. .  68
MAP IBRD 1235 IRI



KOREA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Korea
Amount:             $250 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 15 years including three years grace at
11.6% interest per annum.
Loan
Description:      The proposed loan would support the implementation of the
Government's comprehensive structural adjustment program
outlined in a Letter of Development Policy submitted to
the Bank. The principal aim of the program is to keep
the balance of payments manageable while restoring the
growth momentum of the economy. To achieve these medium-
term objectives, specific actions would be taken (i) to
save imports (particularly energy-related imports), (ii)
to promote exports and improve industrial efficiency
through consolidation of investment, further opening of
the economy and reducing government intervention and
(iii) to strengthen domestic resource mobilization
efforts. The foreign exchange provided by the loan would
be used to finance essential imports. The main risk
arises from uncertainties in the external environment
which could affect export prospects and borrowing costs.
Estimated
Disbursements:   The entire loan is expected to be disbursed by the end
of calendar year 1982.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           This is a combined Staff Appraisal and President's
Report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $250 million to support
its structural adjustment program. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Current Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of Sec M80-449, dated May 20,
1980. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
A. Past Performance
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, with heavy dependence on agriculture and a weak balance!
of payments, financed almost entirely by foreign grants. By the late 1970s it
had become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a strong external
payments position. During 1960-1978, GNP grew by 9% p.a., and per capita
income more than tripled in real terms. The manufacturing sector grew at
18% a year in constant prices, increasing its share in GNP from 14 to 27%.
At the same time the share of agriculture fell from 36 to 22%. Merchandise
exports, principally manufactured goods, rose from $33 million in 1960 to
$13 billion in 1978. The growth of exports was 27% p.a. in real terms and
exports in 1978 constituted 34% of GNP, as against a mere 4% in 1960.
4.        Rapid industrial growth, based on the expansion of export-oriented
manufactured goods, contributed to high rates of growth of employment. More
than 2 million jobs, constituting more than 40% of total additional employ-
ment, were created in manufacturing during 1962-76, the years corresponding
to the first three Five-Year Development Plans. Unemployment during these
years declined from 8 to 4%, while real wages increased by more than 7% p.a.
The rising demand for labor in the industrial and urban sectors caused heavy
out-migration from the rural areas. Nevertheless, value-added in agriculture
grew at 4% a year, indicating a fairly good rate of productivity growth in
this important sector, which still employs more than a third of the labor
force. This performance, combined with deliberate government policies after
1968 to improve the agricultural terms of trade, tended to ensure growth in



- 2 -
per capita rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy.
While there has been some worsening of income distribution in Korea during
the seventies, it compares favorably with most developing countries and the
ratio of population below the poverty line is estimated to be under 15%.
B. Adjustment to the First Oil Crisis
5.        Between 1973 and 1978, Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of
growth (10% p.a.) and substantial adjustment to external circumstances,
despite a total dependency on imports for its petroleum needs and the
quadrupling of oil import prices between 1972 and 1974. Among the policy
instruments which contributed to Korea's success in rapidly overcoming the
effects of the first oil crisis were: (a) devaluation in 1974; (b) continued
emphasis on export diversification in products as well as markets; (c)
restraint in wage increases; and (d) an increase in public sector savings,
mainly reflecting a strong tax effort.  Notwithstanding the recession in
developed countries and growing protectionism, the growth in export volume
averaged 23% p.a. during 1974-78, thereby contributing to the high growth
momentum. In addition, increased borrowing from abroad helped to maintain
the momentum of growth. The Korean economy also gained from an improvement
in terms of trade during 1976-78 (reflecting in part a decline in the real
price of oil from the peak of 1974-75), and a spectacular growth in overseas
construction contracts.
6.        However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the economy. With export volume
doubling, the level of real fixed investment also doubling, and the terms of
trade improving by 28% between 1975 and 1978, aggregate demand (consumption,
investment and exports) grew by an unprecedented 57%. This rapid expansion
understandably created bottlenecks in the economy and created inflationary
pressures. In addition, aided by subsidized credit directed by the Govern-
ment through the financial system, the sharp growth in investment was
focused on the heavy and chemical industries. While this trend was in line
with the Government's view of the changing comparative advantage of Korean
industry, the investment in some key areas was excessive, leading to poor
capacity utilization, while in some other areas investment lagged.  Also,
labor markets witnessed a major transformation in this period. Nonagricul-
tural employment expanded by 30% and employment in the construction sector
increased by 61%. At the same time, a significant part of the existing
construction work force went abroad to work on overseas construction con-
tracts. Reflecting the tightening of the labor market, money wages in
manufacturing increased by 33% p.a. during 1975-78, and real wages growth
(at around 18% p.a.) clearly outstripped the 10% annual growth in produc-
tivity. The rate of growth of money supply and domestic credit also
accelerated. The resulting sharp rise in Korea's price level, compared with
its major trading partners, combined with exchange rate rigidity after 1974,
eroded export competitiveness. By the end of 1978, export volume was
showing signs of stagnating.



- 3-
C. Developments in 1979 and 1980
7.        In order to tackle the problem of inflation and structural imbal-
ances, the Government announced in April 1979 a far-reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring. The general strategy was to follow tight
monetary and fiscal policies while initiating basic structural changes aimed
at giving greater play to market forces, further opening up the economy to
international competition, and providing direct assistance to the poor.
Specific measures included a reduction in the government program of construc-
tion and rural housing, lower fiscal deficits, a sharp reduction in the
growth of domestic credit, a review of investment projects in heavy and
chemical industries, decontrol of prices of a large number of commodities,
vigorous pursuit of import liberalization, lowering of tariff rates on
necessities, and a program of direct assistance to the poor in order to soften
the impact of price decontrol. In the light of the above stabilization
program, the Government prepared a new Economic Management Plan for 1979-81,
scaling down the targets for growth, exports, and investment in the original
Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81) for these years, and allowing for a higher
level of fdreign capital inflows than envisaged in the Plan.
8.        Unfortunately, however, the economic program embodied in the
Economic Management Plan was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks;
and during 1979 and 1980, the Korean economy experienced the most difficult
period in'its recent history. The oil price hikes in 1979 and 1980 raised
Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in 1978 to $6.2
billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly 6% of GNP in
1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief architect of
Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties was assassinated. This was
followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and social unrest
in twenty years (with the situation returning to normal only after the
ascendancy of a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan in September
1980). On top of these developments, the weather turned out to be unfavor-
able, resulting in a drop in agricultural output of about 22% in 1980, or
over 4% of GNP. Compared to the first oil crisis in 1974, the external
shocks during 1979/80 were significantly larger, and this made adjustment
considerably more difficult compared to 1974-75. The deflationary effects
of these developments on the economy were exacerbated by the effects of
tight financial policies during 1979-80, and by the weakened competitive
position of exports owing mainly to rising wage rates and (through 1979)
exchange rate rigidity.
9.        As a combined result of the various adverse factors, the economy
went into a recession in the second half of 1979, which further deepened
during 1980. The real GNP growth was reduced by half to 6% in 1979, xith
the seasonally adjusted GNP declining during the last two quarters of 1979.
GNP continued to decline during 1980, falling almost 6% for the full year.
While the slowing of real growth in 1979 mainly reflected a decline in real
exports (by about 4%), the contraction of real economic activity in 1980



- 4 -
reflected the fall in fixed capital formation (-15%) and in inventories and
consumption (-1%), which offset an improvement in exports (+10%). The
unemployment rate increased from 3.2% in 1978 to 5.2% in 1980.
10.       The rate of increase of wholesale and consumer prices accelerated
from 12% and 14% respectively in 1978 to 39% and 29% in 1980. A large part
of the price increase in 1980 was due to external factors, particularly oil
prices and devaluation of the won (see below). The inflation resulting from
domestic factors reflected in part the reduction of government price controls
in 1979 and increases in the administered prices of some food grains. To
some extent, the cost push pressures were accentuated by the tight credit
policy which raised interest costs to producers. Balance of payments
developments in 1979-80 were heavily influenced by the already-mentioned
sharp increases in oil prices and slowdown in growth of exports. The
current account deficit rose from US$1.1 billion (2.3% of GNP) in 1978 to
US$ 4.2 billion (6.9% of GNP) in 1979, and reached US$5.7 billion (10% of
GNP) in 1980, a level that could not be sustained on a long-term basis.
11.       During the years 1979-81, the Bank has had a continuous and close
dialogue with the Korean authorities through which it has contributed to the
development of the Government's policies and programs to adjust to the
changed circumstances faced by the Korean economy as a result of the events
of the last few years. In late 1979, a Bank review of the financial sector
highlighted the problems caused by excessive government intervention in the
sector and endorsed the Korean authorities' intention to reduce the scope of
directed credit, to maintain real positive interest rates and to strengthen
the project appraisal role and capabilities of long-term lending institu-
tions. In February 1980 the then Deputy Prime Minister requested Bank con-
sideration of a possible structural adjustment loan during a visit to
Washington, D.C. A Bank economic mission which was in the field at that
time reviewed the problems of structural imbalances in the economy and in
its May 1980 report suggested broad directions for adjustment in the areas
of industry, energy, and rural income support, as well as the financial
sector. The Government presented to the Bank a preliminary proposal for
structural adjustment at the time of the Consultative Group meeting for
Korea held in Paris in June 1980, and this proposal reflected the dialogue
the Bank had had with the Government on economic and sector issues. Follor-
ing discussions during the meeting, the Government developed and broadened
these proposals and submitted them to the Bank for consideration at the time
of the Bank-Fund Annual Meetings in the fall of 1980. The proposals have
been further refined in the intervening months, and take into account the
results of Bank missions in November/December 1980 and March/April 1981 as
well as a review of the Government's draft Fifth Five-Year Plan held at the
Bank during the last week of June, 1981.



PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Initial Policy Adjustments
12.       Although mid-1979 through 1980 was a most difficult period for the
Korean economy and the political situation was marked by considerable uncer-
tainty, the Government nevertheless succeeded in taking a number of major
policy initiatives which gave substantial impetus to the adjustment process.
Among these, the most important steps were the January 1980 devaluation of
the won and the adoption, in February 1980, of a flexible exchange rate
policy. The new policy involves adjustment of the value of the won from time
to time on the basis of a multicurrency basket, with other factors affecting
Korea's external position also taken into account. The won depreciated
vis-a-vis the US dollar by a total of 26.7% during the course of 1980 and
the real effective exchange rate in the fourth quarter of 1980 was 11% lower
than that in the corresponding quarter of 1979.  Partly due to the exchange
rate depreciation, export volume which was stagnant in 1979 rose by 10% in
1980 and import volume, which rose by 9% in 1979, declined by 7%. The
reduction in imports in 1980 can also be traced to the fall in consumption
expenditure (due to a decline in agricultural incomes following the poor crop
and to a decline in real wages in the manufacturing sector) as well as a
decline in gross fixed investment (due to the slowdown in economic activity).
13.       With continued exchange rate flexibility, the process of adjustment
is being carried further in 1981. The export volume is projected to increase
by 15% and import volume 10%, including extra-ordinary and temporary rice
imports costing about $1 billion (4% of imports). The non-oil trade surplus
is expected to improve further to $2.8 billion, and excluding special rice
imports, to $3.7 billion. However, because of an increase in interest
payments by about $1 billion (rising to $3.2 billion), the current account
deficit in 1981 is projected to remain high at $5.4 billion, or about 8.5% of
GNP, of which 1.5 percentage points is due to the special rice imports due
to abnormal weather conditions in 1980. Adjusting for the special rice
imports, the current account deficit in 1981,would be about 7% of GNP.
14.       During 1980 and 1981, the Government has been following a policy of
wage restraint. As a result wages, adjusted by the consumer price index,
declined by about 5% in 1980 and are projected to decline by another 3% in
1981. Another of the major initial adjustments was in domestic energy prices.
The average price of petroleum products was increased by 225% between
March 1979 and December 1980. In addition, as discussed further below, the
Government adopted a series of measures in 1980 for the consolidation of
investment programs, reduction in agricultural subsidies, improvement in
energy efficiency and improvement in trade and foreign investment policies.
The balance of payments impact of these adjustments will, as analyzed below,
be largely felt over the medium term.
15.       While substantial external adjustment has been obtained in 1980-81,
this has been associated with stagnation in the economy and a continuing



large current account deficit. There are signs of slow recovery in 1981,
and GNP is likely to grow by about 6%; but that would only offset the 6%
decline experienced in 1980. This situation indicates the need for
longer-term structural adjustment so that the external balance can be
improved consistent with restoration of growth momentum.  The need for such
a program is heightened by the possibility that international interest rates
might remain high for some time and that real energy prices during the 1980s
may not decline as they did after the first oil crisis.
B. Medium-Term Program
16.       The medium-term program described in the following paragraphs has
taken shape over a period of two years and includes a number of important
measures which, as discussed above, have already been adopted. The program
has been incorporated in the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan, covering the
years 1982-86, which is now being finalized in Korea. The overall objective
of the program is to achieve a manageable balance of payments while restor-
ing the growth momentum of the economy. More specifically, the program's
objective is to reduce the current account deficit in the balance of pay-
ments from $5.7 billion (10% of GNP) in 1980 to a more easily sustainable
level of about $3.6 billion (3% of GNP) by 1986 while reviving the GNP
growth rate to 7.6% p.a. In order to attain these objectives, the Govern-
ment will pursue a development strategy that will continue to be outward
looking but will involve a further opening up of the economy and a shift in
the direction and management of industrial policy.
17.       Exports will continue to be the major engine of growth, and are
planned to increase at 11% p.a. in volume terms. As stated in the letter
of intent to the IMF relating to the current standby arrangement (see
para. 94 below) the Government intends to maintain external competitiveness
by pursuing a flexible exchange rate policy. The medium-term program also
involves reducing unit labor costs by slowing down wage increases, improving
productivity and expanding the availability of export financing. To enhance
the competitiveness of Korean industry the Government will emphasize quality
improvement and product innovation. To this end the Government will expose
domestic producers to foreign competition through import liberalization,
will encourage the- inflow of foreign investment and technologies, and will
upgrade technical manpower.
18.       The above measures for improving the competitiveness of Korean
industry form only one part of the Government's strategy for assuring that
industry fulfills its vital role in the achievement of both balance of
payments and growth targets. As noted in paragraph 6 above, government
policies in the past few years have tended to favor the heavy and chemical
industries. This emphasis grew out of the fact that the light industries
which were the basis for the successful export growth of earlier years were
facing increasingly stiff competition in world markets and that continued
economic growth must be achieved through a deepening of the industrial
sector and improvements in productivity.  In retrospect, however, it appears
that government policies led to a lopsided distribution of limited resources



- 7 -
in favor of large enterprises in the heavy and chemical industrles
expense of a broad spectrum of medium and light industries which l
funds necessary to improve their cost competitiveness and upgrade quality,
skill and technology levels. These policies also led to duplication, over-
investment and low utilization and efficiency in certain heavy machinery and
chemical enterprises.  Under the medium-term program, the Government will
(in fact has already begun) moving away from this earlier strategy. The
incentive system is planned to be redesigned in a more neutral way, i.e., it
will not be limited to specified industries but will be given to private
investment activities in general, based on a showing of economic viability
with priority being given to investments contributing to technology and
manpower development, efficiency in energy use, and development of small and
medium enterprises. In those heavy industries where major investment has
already taken place and capacity utilization is very low, the medium-term
program involves consolidation and rationalization of the existing
investments together with appropriate support for the expansion of export
markets. In the case of proposals for major new industrial investments
which, because of their size or major externalities, require government
financial support, special care will be taken in their review to assure that
they are soundly based, and to this end, measures will be taken to
strengthen the mechanisms for project evaluation.
19.       A major element of the Government's new industrial strategy involves
a change in its management approach. As stated in the draft Five-Year Plan,
part of the difficulties experienced by the industrial sector in the last
two to three years is attributable to excessive government intervention in
the decision-making process. This intervention was effected in large measure
through the system of directed credit operated through the financial system
(see para. 6 above). This system served the country well during the early
years of rapid growth, but has become increasingly inappropriate as the
economy has grown more and more complex and sophisticated. The Government
is now moving to give greater autonomy to financial institutions in their
management and credit allocation.
20.       While major emphasis in the medium-term program is on promoting
exports, efforts will also be directed toward restraining import growth.
During 1982-86, imports are projected to grow at 8% p.a. in volume terms and
17% p.a. in value terms. Measures to reduce imports will include improv-
ing efficiency in energy use through incentives for investment in energy-
saving facilities, for industrial restructuring away from overly energy-
intensive industry, and for selective import substitution of intermediate
inputs and capital goods on the basis of comparative advantage. In line
with the goals of the Five-Year Plan, the medium-term balance of payments
and growth objectives are to be achieved while reducing the rate of infla-
tion to less than 10% and strengthening efforts to achieve social equity.
Slowing down the rate of growth of the money supply will be the priinc1pal
instrument for controlling inflation and increased emphasis on socia.1
development expenditures (e.g., education, housing and health) the prl ciDal
instrument for achieving greater social equity.  The principal macroe-,.3i4o
indicators are presented in Table 1.



- 8 -
Table 1: KOREA: MAJOR ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Five Year Plans
1972-76   1977-81  1982-86    1980    1981    1986
(Actual)   (Est)  (Projec-  (Actual)  (Est)  (Projec-
tions)                       tions)
(Annual Real Growth Rate (%))
GNP                            10.1       5.5      7.6      -5.7       6.2       7.5
Industry                      18.0       9.2      10.8      -1.2       4.8      10.6
Investment                      9.7     10.3       8.6    -24.3        8.7      10.1
Exports (goods & services)  26.8         12.6     10.9        7.5     14.8      10.5
Imports (goods & services)  15.7        13.2       7.9      -3.6       9.4       8.9
(% of GNP in current prices)
Investment                    27.8      31.5      31.6      31.0      31.2      32.5
Domestic savings               20.3      23.9     27.4      21.2      22.3      29.6
Foreign savings /a              6.8       7.1       4.2       9.8      8.9       2.9
(In US$ Billion)
Exports                                                     17.2      21.0      52.0
Imports                                                     22.0      25.2      55.5
Current account balance                                     -5.7      -5.4      -3.6
(Annual Growth Rate (%))
GNP deflator                  20.7      20.7      10.8      27.7      20.0       9.5
Broad money (M2)               31.1     30.1      22.0      26.9      25.0      20.0
(Percentages)
Unemployment rate
(end of the period)          4.1       4.2       4.2       5.2       4.8       4.0
/a Defined as current account deficit plus net transfers from abroad.
Source: EPB
21.        While the Plan and the investment program in it are being reviewed
further by a Bank economic mission now in progress, the Bank staff is in
broad agreement with the general thrust of the draft Fifth Plan, which aims
at reducing Government intervention in the economy and channelling a greater
proportion of Government resources to social development (e.g., education
and housing) and less to heavy and chemical industries. The GNP growth
target of 7.6% p.a. for 1982-86 is significantly below the growth rate since
1962 (9% p.a.). However, under the changed circumstances due to rising oil
prices and the increased protectionism in developed countries, the lower
growth target for 1982-86 seems reasonable and would represent an improvement



- 9 -
over the actual growth rate during the Fourth Plan period (5.5% p.a.).  Such
a growth rate would be adequate to prevent a worsening of the unemployment
situation.
22.       The target of a current account deficit of $3.6 billion by 1986 (3%
of GNP) is well within the level of a manageable deficit for Korea. However,
there are uncertainties regarding the export prospects and the available
volume and cost of borrowing from international money markets during the
1980s. Total world exports, which grew at 8% p.a. in constant dollars during
the 1970s, are expected to slow perceptibly to 4-6% p.a. in the 1980s under
the combined pressures of energy constraints, problems of financing balance oi.
payments deficits and protectionism. The export demand constraints may apply
particularly to textiles and footwear. However, the debt service ratio for
medium- and long-term debt is not likely to rise much above its current
figure of 14% of the value of exports of goods and nonfactor services. The
higher debt burden will still be manageable.
23.       While the target for foreign capital inflows of 3% of GNP in 1986
thus appears appropriate, the expected export demand constraints mean that
special efforts are required to achieve it. On the export side, it is
necessary to implement the policies on exchange rate, wages, export diversi-
fication and export credits noted above (paras. 17-18). For import saving,
there is a need for particular emphasis on policies in the areas of: (a)
improvement in efficiency of energy use and (b) improving the efficiency of
industrial investment. Furthermore, in order that export promotion and/or
import saving can be achieved without accentuating inflationary pressures,
it is necessary to strengthen domestic resource mobilization efforts. The
issues and action programs in three major areas -- energy, industry and
domestic resource mobilization -- are discussed in the sections that follow.
The emerging government programs reflect the discussions that have taken
place between the Government and the Bank over the last two years in the
course of the Bank's economic and sector work and that have been further
deepened since the dialogue started on the proposed structural adjustment
loan.
C. Improving Energy Efficiency
24.       Relative to other middle-income countries, Korea is a highly
energy-intensive economy, almost totally dependent on imports for its incre-
mental energy needs. Estimates of the total use of kilo-calories per unit of
GDP show Korea in 1978 using 70% more energy than Japan in 1961 and 64% more
than the average of middle-income countries in 1978./I Among the reasons for
relatively high energy intensity, the Government has highlighted three
/1 World Bank, World Development Report, 1980, p. 123.



factors:  (a) relatively high 2ecergyv corsuption in the residential and
commercial sector, () a h        :,)h ratio oF' energy-intensive industries in total
output, and (c) large energy Losses  "n zome major areas in the i-ndustrial
sector.  In 1979, abo..t 3i o    Kofea-s total energy consumption was used for
the residential ar. cae!  secor as against 19% for Japan, and the
consumption of energy rar househ'old pe-  ear fis significantly higher in
Korea than in Japan- Lhis stems  o be connected with the techlniques of space
heating used ln Korea, .-he voeatnldiir corions and the relatively low price
of co-l.  During 1962-799  nr  .-rgTnre-ensive Industries grew more rapidly than
other industries.  Moreove-r inuch of rhe rapi d industrial growth took place
in an era of chean and abundant energy aca energy efficilency was not given
high priority In the design of    nss
25.        The preliminary draft Fifth Plan projections sucggested that, in
the absence of strong actions, t.he relatively high energy intensity of the
Korean economy would increase even furt'nher over the medium term and import
dependence would grow.  While, as discussed below, the energy sector was far
from neglected in governmLent policy-making in recenL years, the Government
recognizes that it needs to undertake even more intensive efforts to reduce
energy demand. The objective is to reduce the elastic1£ty of energy use to
GNP to 0.9 during the 1980s, compared to 1.1 during 1974-80. For this
purpose the government policy is to pass on the full marginal cost of energy
to consumers, strengthen the institutional and legal set-up for increasing
efficiency in energy use, give financial and fiscal incentives for energy
saving and defer, in suitable cases, energy-intensive expenditures.  In this
latter connection, several important decisions have been made:  a third
petrochemical complex and a proposed aluminum production plant have been
postponed and the pace of motorization wiill conitinue to be restrained.  For
diversifying sources of energy and restraining oil imports, increasing use
will be made of alternative fuels, such as coal and nuclear energy and
liquified natural gas (LNG). The measures for improving energy efficiency
supported by the proposed loan relate to: (a) energy pricing; (b) institution
building and energy conservatiron5 and (c) reducing energy-intensive
expenditures.
26.        Energy Pricing.  As noted irn Table 2 below, domestic energy prices
in Korea have been-increased signLficantly slnce the 19779 oil price hike.
The average price (in US dollars) of petroleeum products i7as raised by 168%
between March 1979 and April 1981.  The cost of regular gasoline at retail
level is US$3.90 per US gallon and for premium it is US$5.60, although for
diesel the price is only US$1.42. Electricity prices were again raised (in
April 1981) in line with the general increases ia the prices of primary
fuels. By the mid-1970s a rationalized s-ystem of electricity pricing was
introduced which by combining demand and energy charges, plus a progressive
tariff and off-peak rates, gives consumers an incentive to limit electricity
use. The coal price for consumers has been increased from $34 per ton in
1979 to $42 per ton in April 1981, which, however, remains significantly
lower than the limport cost of coal (about $70 per ton).



- 11 -
Table 2: PRINCIPAL ENERGY PRICES
(Prices in US$)
1979       1980        1981
(March)    (Nov.)      (April)
Gasoline, Regular (per gallon)
Ex-factory (before tax)                    0.53        1.44        1.44
Service Station                            n.a.        3.91        3.90
Diesel (per gallon)
Ex-factory (before tax)                    0.39        0.92        1.07
Service Station                            n.a.        1.24        1.42
Bunker - C (per gallon)
Ex-factory (before tax)                    0.36        0.86        0.94
Naphtha
Ex-factory (before tax)                    0.38        0.86        0.92
Electricity price per KWh (US()              6.6         9.0         9.5
Coal Price (per ton)
Consumer price                            34.09       38.92       41.59
Source: MER
27.       While the average price of petroleum products in Korea has been
increased in line with increases in crude oil prices, the price structure
for some of these products is seriously out of line with the international
price structure. The price of "Bunker C" - the most important oil product,
is about 20% higher than comparable prices in Singapore or the Persian Gulf,
while prices of ex-refinery products, such as diesel oil, naphtha, kerosene
and LPG are set relatively low. The ex-refinery price of diesel oil, for
example, is 7% less than the c.i.f. Inchon price even after a 15% increase
in April 1981. Another unusual feature of Korea product pricing is the
narrow differential between diesel and naphtha. The low diesel price
carries through into the retail market, where diesel sells for about 35% of
the price of regular gasoline.
28.       This gap between gasoline and diesel prices, widely out of line
with international price ratios, is causing a tendency toward the
dieselization of cars, Moreover the relatively low price of diesel is not
conducive to conservation in transportation. In order to reduce this large



- 12 -
differential, the Government intends by June 30, 1982 to increase the ratio
of retail diesel prices to gasoline prices by about 10%. The issue of
appropriate pricing for diesel deserves further study and, subject to the
conclusions of these studies, the target is to increase the ratio of retail
diesel prices to gasoline prices to about 66% by 1986.
29.       The Government has kept the price of domestic coal low for many
years to protect the poorer household consumers. A recent survey showed,
however, that only about 10% of the consumers of coal are below the poverty
line defined by the Government. A complex system of subsidies (currently
costing over US$100 million) has given producers a marginally acceptable
price while keeping the price low to consumers. The mining industry is not
in a healthy condition, however. It is based on an undercapitalized tech-
nology that yields low productivity and low profits. Minehead prices are
only about 55% of the c.i.f. price of imported anthracite.  The country is
now importing about 3 million tons of anthracite coal to satisfy home heating
requirements, and these imports are projected to grow to 5 million tons by
1986. The comparatively low price of coal is also a contributing factor to
the relatively energy-inefficient system of home heating in Korea. In order
to encourage improvement in efficiency in use of coal and thereby reduce
coal consumption and save on imports, the Government has accepted the need
to increase the relative price of coal (while protecting low income consumers
through an explicit subsidy targeted to households below the poverty line).
At the time of the general increase of energy prices in April 1981, the
consumer price of coal was increased 20% vs. 12% for Bunker C fuel oil. In
August, 1981, coal prices were increased by another 16%.  Subject to the
findings of further studies on this issue, the target is to largely eliminate
the gap between domestic and imported coal prices by 1986.
30.       Institution Building and Energy Conservation Measures.  The
Government has set up a number of institutions to strengthen energy planning.
Important among these are: (a) the Ministry of Energy and Resources (MER);
(b) the Korea Energy Management Corporation (KEMCO); and (c) the Korea
Institute of Energy and Resources (KIER). MER, set up in 1978, coordinates
policies and programs in the area of energy. It must approve prices for
coal, petroleum products and electricity, all of which are subject to
government control. It must also approve investment plans of all major
energy producers (i.e., KECO, the five oil refineries, and the larger
coal-mining companies). A 1979 law on Rationalization of Energy Utilization
(REU) requires all large users of oil and electricity to report regularly to
the Ministry on energy consumption and savings, and to appoint energy
officers. This law also requires compulsory audits for some 1,700 large
energy-using firms and established a Government corporation, KEMCO. KEMCO
is a technical assistance, training and conservation promotion agency whose
primary role is to conduct the compulsory audits and implement many of the
other policies contained in the 1979 REU Law. KIER is a research institute,
on the pattern of Korea's many other research institutes, and conducts
research on technical as well as policy matters relating to energy.



- 13 -
31.       A special survey on Energy Saving in Industry was conducted in
1979 which concluded that of the 7.2 million TOE energy consumed in 1978 by
the 800 plants surveyed, about 22% could be saved with appropriate energy
conservation measures. It was further estimated that the potential saving
of 1.5 million TOE could be achieved by an investment of W 228 billion, with
a pay-back period of about one year. In order to encourage energy conserva-
tion investments, W 230 was allocated to three separate funds for different
sized industries in 1980. It is expected that demand for energy conservation
investment will rise over the next few years and in the draft Fifth Plan,
W 866 billion has been proposed for such investments. Special tax rates and
depreciation allowances have also been granted for energy conservation. In
addition to offering incentives for the private sector, the Government has
also issued (December 1980) new, more energy efficient insulation standards
for new public construction.
32.       The 1979 energy audits were limited surveys, rather than in-depth
audits of energy use and of energy-saving potential. Only a strengthened
program of energy audits in representative energy-intensive plants, backed
up by financial and fiscal incentives, will induce owners to undertake the
investments which substantial energy saving usually requires. As noted above,
the Government has established a set of incentives that includes improved
access to credit plus accelerated depreciation. Private firms, however,
have so far been relatively slow to take advantage of these incentives.
Experience in other countries has shown that it takes not only high energy
prices and government incentives to stimulate industry to take conservation
meaures, but also an active promotion and education program and an effective
program of technical assistance to get the ball rolling. The action program
under the proposed loan will provide for strengthening the technical
assistance program and for opening up energy audit activity to the private
sector; workshops and training programs are also intended to heln in
developing more efficient space heating methods consistent with local
conditions.
33.       Energy Intensive Investment.  In line with its policy of strength-
ening efforts to reduce energy intensity, the Government has, as already
noted, postponed indefinitely a proposed third petrochemical complex and
disapproved a proposed aluminum production Dlant, both of which would have
required large amounts of energy. Another major investment (about $1
billion) that has been under consideration for some time and which is
designed to further the objective of diversifying energy sources is for the
infrastructure required to support the utilization of liquified natural gas
(LNG). The Government recently has decided to go forward with this project
and intends to solicit the Bank/s advice on its effective implementation.
34.       The pace of motorization in Korea has been kept moderate by a com-
bination of the above policies relating to gasoline prices, by heavy taxes
and fees on personal automobiles, and by import restrictions and administra-
tive guidelines. The Korean economy has now come to a stage of development
when there are pressures for massive investments in the automobile industry
and for allowing a large expansion of domestic demand through changes of



- 14 -
policy, in order to support the automobile industry in the domestic market.
In view of the wide-ranging implications of a larger stock of automobiles
for energy use, urbanization, the environment, as well as for the balance of
payments, this issue deserves particularly serious attention in the context
of structural adjustments in response to the energy crisis and the changed
international environment during the 1980s. The implications of this for
energy use, urban patterns, the balance of payments and growth are treated
further below (paras. 40-50).
35.       Action Program.  In the light of the above, the Government intends
to pass on to consumers the full increases in all energy costs, narrow over
time the gap between domestic coal prices and imported coal prices, reduce
the gap between retail gasoline price and diesel price and use energy shadow
prices in project evaluation.  It will review with the Bank feasibility
studies for the third petrochemical complex, if revived, and seek Bank
advice on effective implementation of the LNG project.
36.       More specifically, as to actions through the end of 1982, the
Government has agreed to:
(a) pass on to consumers the full increases in all energy costs;
(b) increase domestic coal prices relative to coal import prices;
and has already done so by increasing coal prices by 16% in
August 1981;
(c) increase the ratio of retail diesel price to gasoline price by
about 10% by June 30, 1982;
(d) conduct an in-depth energy audit for at least one leading plant in
6-8 energy-intensive manufacturing subsectors; energy-saving
actions to be adopted for each plant would be reviewed with the
Bank by September 30, 1982;
(e) undertake workshops and overseas training for energy conservation
programs; and
D. Improving Industrial Efficiency
37.       In industry, action is required on a number of fronts - on the
general policy framework, as well as in some specific industries where the
problem of excess capacity has emerged. In the past, the Government used
four major instruments for guiding industrial investment in the economy,
namely, (a) credit allocation, (b) import restrictions, (c) tax benefits, and
(d) foreign investment regulations. As discussed in paras. 18-19 above, the
Government intends to introduce significant changes in these policies mainly
by reducing Government intervention and allowing for a greater role of the



- 15 -
market mechanism. The intended changes in credit policy are beitn, supported
by the Bank through its lending to Korean financial instit-U,u              Oe
intended changes in import policy and foreign private investment regulations,
as noted in paragraphs 62-66 below, will be supported through this loan.
The changes in tax policies are still under discussion, and the general
direction of change will be to make the tax incentives more neutral as to
industries and oriented toward achievement of policy objectives such as
energy saving and technology promotion.
38.       As mentioned above, a part of the problem in the industrial sector
is attributable to government direction of credit allocation. Encouraged by
the Government, excessive investments were made since the mid-1970's in a
number of heavy and chemical industries with expansion greatly exceeding
levels consistent with market size, financing capacity and technical/
engineering capability. The supply of investment funds was preferentially
allocated to these heavy industries at the expense of medium and light
industries which consequently faced severe difficulties in raising necessary
financial resources. To correct this situation the Government intends to
reorganize and rationalize the operations of the National Investment Fund
(NIF). In order to allow market forces increasingly to determine private
sector investment decisions, the Government will cease lending NIF resources
through the commercial banks by the end of 1984./1 At the same time it is
carrying out studies designed to define a more limited and sharply focused
NIF program. Government has also begun divesting itself of its shares in
the major commercial banks and will gradually reduce what has been a very
substantial control over their management and administration. An extensive
range of approvals previously necessary from the Superintendent of Banks in
areas such as staff and organization, personnel management and budgeting has
recently been abolished. As another facet of the program to improve the
allocative efficiency of financial resources, the Government has adopted the
policy of moving toward positive real rates of interest on deposits and
loans. The dialogue on financial sector reform is being pursued in connec-
tion with Bank lending for the major development banks, with the above
undertaking on NIF reform and interest rate policy forming part of the
understandings reached under the most recent loans to the Korea Development
Bank (Loan 1933-KO) and Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (Loan 1932-KO) both
signed on January 14, 1981. On present projections of the inflation rate,
it is expected that the objective of positive real interest rates will be
achieved by the end of 1982.
39.       Liberalization of the financial sector, however, will not take
care of the problem of industries where heavy investment has already been
made and capacity utilization is very low. It will also not assure that
investments of such magnitude as to require government financial support, or
/1 After the study on the future role of the NIF is completed (by December
31, 1981) the Government will consider, in consultation with the Bank,
advancing this date.



- 16 -
involving important externalities which give the Government a legitimate
role in the decision-making process, will be soundly based. Nor will it
assure that protection policies and other aspects of the incentive system
are attuned to the Government's strategy for increased industrial
efficiency. The following paragraphs review the government program of
realignment in two key subsectors - automobile and heavy machinery -
followed by a review of the government program on (a) the reform of the
incentive system, and (b) strengthening project appraisal procedures.
(i) The Automobile Industry
40.       Korea at this time is faced with some fundamental choices regard-
ing the future of the motor vehicle industry. Until now, as already noted,
the pace of motorization in Korea has been slow as a result of various
government policies. In the meantime a sizeable automobile industry has
been built up, which has limited export prospects in the near future.
Pressures have been growing for the Government to change the policy of
restraint on motorization and increase the investment in the automobile
industry for the domestic market as well as for export.
41.       The automobile industry began during the mid-1960s, and by 1980,
the Korean automobile industry reached a production capacity of about
330,000 units per year, of which passenger cars were about 230,000 units.
Actual production peaked in 1979 at about 240,000 units. In 1980, produc-
tion of automobiles dropped sharply under the combined impact of the
recession in the economy, the increase in oil prices and government policies
of increased taxes on auto sales and operation, and the discouragement of
sales of luxury goods, including automobiles. The capacity utilization in
the industry dropped to about 36%.
42.       Recent Policy Actions.  In response to the low capacity utiliza-
tion, the Government announced a realignment of ownership in the motor
vehicle industry in August 1980. The elements of the plan were consolidation
of all automobile production under one management, consolidation of light and
medium truck production under a second management and continued competition
between two present producers in the heavy (more than 5 ton) truck market.
The objective of these proposals was to take advantage of increased economies
of scale, lower production costs and increased international competitiveness.
It has not been possible, however, to carry through these merger plans in
their original form and they have recently been modified to allow two
producers to compete in automobile production.
43.       With automobile and truck sales continuing at low levels during
1981, and with the policy of rationalization now partly abandoned, the
Government is under pressure for investment in, and promotion of, the
industry during the 1982-86 period. The early drafts of the Fifth Five-Year
Plan proposed substantial increases in automobile and truck production.



- 17 -
Total capacity was set to rise to 750,000 units by 1986, with sales in
domestic and export markets projected to reach 527,000. The bulk of the
capacity increases suggested would be to support a rapid build-up of
automobile sales in the domestic market. The early draft Plan forecasts of
domestic automobile demand were based on the assumption of further reduc-
tions in special excise taxes and registration fees beginning in 1982, and
further liberalization of credit in 1982 and 1983.
44.       Both the tax and credit policies could have significant implica-
tions for the Korean economy. Taxes on automobiles (including purchase and
gasoline taxes and other user fees) contribute about 10% of total national
revenues. While rate cuts were assumed to increase demand, the total tax
revenues from this source would be likely to decline. Similarly, if credit
were provided for auto purchase and if the initial debt on each vehicle
averaged 75% of its sale price, Korean credit markets would be required to
absorb an additional $1.2 billion of new borrowing. Even if vehicle scrapp-
age continues at historic high levels (averaging about 15% per year for cars
and 11% for trucks in recent years) the planned production increases would
still nearly triple the number of vehicles on the roads by 1986, to 1.5 mil-
lion. Such a rapid increase in the vehicle population would quickly lead to
many of the undesirable externalities that have become so familiar in the
developed nations: urban congestion, rapidly growing oil use, and declining
urban air quality. Over the longer term, other impacts and costs might be
expected, such as population dispersion, higher road investment costs, and
the decline in public transportation and rail freight systems.
45.       Export PLosLects.  In view of the substantial over-capacity in the
industry, even a five-fold increase in domestic sales of automobiles can be
met by present capacity. Therefore capacity-increasing investment during
1982-86 would be justified only if export prospects were attractive. How-
ever, while this may be a possibility in the long run, this does not seem to
be the case in the medium-term future. Intensely competitive conditions are
likely to prevail throughout the 1980s in the international market for
automobiles. In this environment only companies with economies of scale,
superior products, low-cost structures and marketing outlets can expect to
compete. In each of the areas which Korea must develop - marketing, product
development, and production cost control - considerable market research and
planning is necessary before the industry can launch a massive expansion
program in automobiles. Under the circumstances, the Government has revised
its plans for the automobile industry and now intends to withhold support
for capacity expansion in car assembly during 1982-86, pending the completion
and review with the Bank of a thorough feasibility study on new investments
in automobile assembly and a study of the impact of rapid motorization.
46.       Promoting Development of the Motor Vehicle Parts Industry.  To a
great degree the possibilities for exporting vehicles will depend on improve-
ments in the quality, cost, and technological sophistication of the parts
supplied to Korean manufacturers. In addition, parts represent an important
opportunity for export even if Korea does not become a major vehicle
exporter in the near term. It seems that at this stage higher priority



- 18 -
should be attached to promotion of the parts industry than to augment
capacity in assembled vehicles.
47.       The Government has been aware of the potential benefits to be
derived from the creation of an independent, efficient, technologically
advanced and internationally competitive automobile parts industry. To that
end it has provided high tariff protection, financial and technical help,
and a protected domestic market. However, by creating a protected market,
government policies have tended to inhibit innovation and product improve-
ment. The limited support for foreign joint ventures has helped to isolate
Korean parts manufacturers from the changes in automotive technology that
have been occurring elsewhere in the world. Perhaps most importantly, the
small size and limited product lines of most firms have inhibited most of
them from significant research, development or training.
48.       A move to the next stage of evolution toward world competitiveness
requires that tariff barriers, protected monopolies, and strict local content
rules be phased out to ensure the sound growth of the parts industry. In
addition, efforts to promote exports need to be better targeted to areas of
Korean advantage. As a new producer, Korea's ability to move into the
original equipment market is limited. The aftermarket for spare parts, on
the other hand, presents much more immediate possibilities. Low technology
parts in which quality is not critical, and low volume, high value parts
might offer good prospects.
49.       In view of the above the Government is considering steps to
upgrade and promote the growth of the parts industry, including a nationally
supported program of technical assistance, including management, marketing
and engineering help; formation of a traders association to promote parts
exports, possibly through a series of trade missions; incentives to parts
manufacturers to encourage rationalization, new product development, more
competition and more rapid infusion of foreign capital and technology.
50.       Action Program.  As part of its program for promoting industrial
efficiency, the Government has thus agreed:
(a) to defer-government support for automobile plant expansion,
pending a feasibility study and a study of the impact of rapid
motorization (such studies to be reviewed with the Bank);
(b) not to provide financial incentives to stimulate private demand
for automobiles, pending completion of the above studies, without
discussion with the Bank; and
(c) to appoint a task force to prepare a plan for promotion of the
automobile parts industry.



- 19 -
(ii) Restructuring the Heavy Machinery Sector
51.       Another area where there is a need for realignment of investment
in Korea is the heavy machinery sector. The sector is defined to include
(a) general plant equipment, (b) power plant equipment, (c) heavy electrical
equipment, (d) marine diesel engines, (e) heavy industrial equipment and (f)
related components. In the plant equipment industry, four major projects
were initiated since the mid-1970cs, involving total investments of about
$1.0 billion. In the heavy electrical equipment area, another $200 million
was invested by four separate companies. The marine diesel engine industry
comprised two new plants that started operation in 1979, and one old
multi-engine maker; the value of investment in these plants is roughly
estimated at $200 million.
52.       By 1980, all these units were suffering from serious over-capacity.
It was clear that with a slowdown in the rate of increase of electricity
demand, expansion of the power system would be at a slower pace than
envisaged earlier. Exports of plant equipment over the near term were
constrained by a lack of experience in building such equipment; also some
important items such as power plant equipment were affected by the depressed
condition of the world market. Fierce competition was developing among
plant equipment units for markets and scarce technical manpower, and the
capacity utilization rate was below 40%. On top of this came the Govern-
ment-s program for monetary and financial stringency, and the undercapital-
ized financial structure of these units was strained to the breaking point.
Similarly, in heavy electrical equipment, the industry-s leader was operating
at well below 50% of capacity and was in a difficult financial position. In
marine diesel engines, capacity utilization was below 30%.
53.       Beginning in August 1980, the Government has taken a series of
actions to rationalize investment in this sector./l In the plant equipment
industry, Hyundai International (HII) was picked as the sole supplier of
Korea Electrical Company (KECO) plant equipment and Daewoo Heavy Industries
(DHI) was to take over the management of the company. DHI expanded the scope
of the company to include plant construction activity and changed the company
name to Korea Heavy Industry and Construction Company (KHIC). However,
because DHI could not come up with the funds to finance the project, the
Government, in November 1980, made KHIC an autonomous public enterprise
managed by KECO. The Government improved the financial situation of KHIC by'
infusing over $400 million of additional capital, and recognizing that for a
number of years at least the local market could support only one domestic
manufacturer, excluded other local producers from the domestic market for
power plant equipment. In heavy electrical equipment, the Government ordered
/1 In addition to realignment in this sector, Government has also acted to
merge two units in copper smelting and eliminated two units out of four
from further competition in the area of electronic telecommunication
equipment.



- 20 -
a merger of the Ssangyong and Korong companies into Hyosung company, and
designated Hyosung as the sole maker of general heavy electrical equipment
in the country. The fourth major company in the field, Hyundai Heavy
Industries, was limited to producing only shipboard electrical equipment.
All other makers of specialized heavy electrical equipment in the country
were prohibited from producing equipment of higher rating than they had been
making. In the marine diesel engine industry, Ssangyong was designated as
the sole producer of industrial and marine diesel engines below 6000 HP.
DHI was to suspend marine engine production and produce only the small
vehicular diesels. The net effect of the action was a transfer of the small
marine engine market from DHI to Ssangyong. The government action was aimed
at a rationalization of production by engine size.
54.       The main benefit of the Government actions in the heavy machinery
sector was to postpone indefinitely the planned (and potentially duplicative)
investment of over $500 million, of which about $400 million was in plant
equipment and about $100 million in heavy electrical equipment. The finan-
cial strength of the major producers in plant equipment and heavy electrical
equipment have also been improved by the Government's provision of additional
long-term capital.
55.       While recent government actions prevented further uncontrolled
investments in this area, they did not resolve the fundamental problems of
existing excess capacities. The conflicting priorities resulting from
policies that promote a high rate of import substitution of capital goods
and those that promote the export of plant equipment still have to be
resolved. Further, there is also a need for actions to improve production
efficiencies through balancing and rationalizing capital structure. While
steps are underway to deal with some of these problems, particularly at
KHIC, a clearer definition of the appropriate Government role vis-a-vis the
heavy machinery sector is required.
56.       Action Program.  In view of the above, the Government has agreed to
(a) withhold financial or other support for investments in this sector
which would aggravate the excess capacity problem; and
(b) form a Task Force to review the problems of the sector and make
recommendations regarding possible measures for the promotion of
exports and strengthening engineering capacity in the sector.
(iii) The Industrial Incentives System and Project Appraisal
procedures
57.       As noted above, Korea's industrial incentive system has, by and
large, served the country well in the past. However, with increasing
sophistication of the economy, the incentive system needs adaptation to the
changing circumstances. Over the last two years, the issue has been under
review with the Bank, particularly in connection with the Bank's financial
sector work and loans to financial intermediaries in Korea. The Government



- 21 -
has, in fact, taken corrective actions in a number of areas and has initiated
a series of measures for reform of the incentive system in line with the
growing maturity of the Korean economy. Nevertheless, in order to support
the reforms planned by the Government, it is necessary to strengthen the
technical capacity to review the evolving system of industrial incentives,
to appraise major projects and to work out the macro-economic, budgetary and
financial implications of proposed investment programs.
58.       Protection Policies.  The main objectives of the tariff policy
remain the reduction and simplification of tariffs and considerable improve-
ment has been achieved in this regard over the past years. The average
tariff collection rate (i.e., customs duty collections as a proportion of
c.i.f. imports) has declined from 9.3% in 1968 to 5.7% in 1980 reflecting
changes in both tariff levels and tariff exemptions (e.g., for materials to
be processed for export) and the increasing share of duty free oil imports
in total imports. Tariff collections as a proportion of non-oil imports for
domestic use (i.e., excluding imports for export for which duty rebates are
payable) decreased from 15.9% in 1977 to 13.3% in 1979 and 12.1% in 1980.
59.       Nontariff barriers have also been reduced over time.  Between 1967
and 1978, the number of prohibited import items declined from 118 to zero.
The proportion of items on the automatic approval list increasing from 54%
at the beginning of 1978 to 69% one year later. The subsequent deterioration
of economic conditions and the balance of payments halted the program of
liberalization for 1980. However, the Government has recently announced an
increase in the liberalization ratio to 74.7% effective July 1, 1981 and its
medium-term target is to raise this ratio to 90% by 1985.
60.       However, not all items on the automatic approval list can be
imported without restriction. There are a number of special laws which
operate separately from the Annual Export and Import Notice and which
restrict the import of items on the automatic approval list. Special laws
are particularly important for vegetable products, prepared foodstuffs,
beverages, mineral products, chemicals and chemical products accounting for
a quarter of import items in these categories. There are also a number of
watch items" that are subject to surveillance. After taking them into
account the net overall import liberalization ratio for 1980 falls from
68.6% to 56.0%.
61.       The estimated effective rate of protection (ERP) for Korean manu-
facturing industries in 1978 was about 4%.  This very low average ERP for
the manufacturing sector, however, does not indicate negligible reliance on
tariff and other import restrictions. The existence of substantially
negative ERPs for certain industry groups (such as processed food,
construction materials and lightly-processed intermediate products) offsets
the moderately high ERPs for industries such as consumer durables and
transport equipment in calculating a sector average ERP. While compared
with most other developing countries Korea's manufacturing sector is more



- 22 -
lightly protected, there is a need for further rationalization of the
protection system with regard to the level as well as the structure of
protection.
62.       Government Objectives for Reform of Protection Policies.  As noted
above the Korean Government has indicated that the import liberalization
ratio /1 would be increased from 74% in 1981 to 90% by 1981. The Government
also intends to undertake a comprehensive, coordinated approach to the
analysis of the protection system and its implications for the industrial
structure and development. For this purpose a unit within EPB will review
the existing system and prepare proposals for reform.
63.       Efforts have already been made to simplify import (and export)
procedures in order to reduce the administrative costs faced by traders. For
example, since November 1980 companies applying for an import license no
longer must have achieved exports of more than $1 million over the previous
year. Documentation required for exports and imports has been simplified
and all import/export administration procedures will be computerized by
1984, resulting in significant cost reductions.
64.       Export Incentives.  As already noted, export orientation remains the
major objective of Korean industrial policy. In addition to the policy of
flexible exchange rates and encouraging wage restraint, the Government
intends to expand the availability of export credits for machinery. Although
there has been a substantial increase in the availability of export credits
to importers of Korean manufactures, the coverage is uneven and the supply
of such credit is far below the demand and is being cited as a major impedi-
ment to exports, especially in shipbuilding and machine tool industries. In
this context the Government is paying particular attention to expanding the
role of the Exim Bank in providing M & LT suppliers credits and implement-
ing an export insurance scheme. The value of exports on a deferred payment
basis is expected to increase from $0.9 billion in 1981 to $4.0 billion in
1986.
65.       Foreign Investment.  Given the emphasis on the acquisition of high
technology the role of foreign private investment assumes special importance.
In 1980, the Foreign Investment Inducement Act was amended to increase the
inflow of direct foreign investment. For example, the ownership ratio and
minimum capital requirements were relaxed. Until recently, ownership was
typically allowed up to 49%, which may now be as high as 100% for a wide
range of industrial activities, though preference is given to ventures with
potential for exporting and the introduction of high technology. Foreign
investment is now allowed in a fairly large number of industries and the
minimum investment requirement has been lowered from US$500,000 to
US$100,000. Various types of exemptions and reductions are granted across
the board, including taxes on corporate income and dividends, wages and
/1 I.e., the proportion of items receiving automatic import approval.



- 23 -
salaries, custom duties, property tax, and these appear to be fairly
generous. However, foreign investment in the manufacture of foodstuffs and
medical products and commodity distribution and service industries is
allowed only subject to waiver of tax exemption and reduction benefits other
than customs duties.  As regards repatriation, full remittance of profits is
guaranteed after two years from the date the enterprise begins its opera-
tions. The annual repatriation of capital may, however, be limited to 20%
at the discretion of EPB as the balance of payments position permits.
66.       The revised incentive framework appears to be fairly generous and
quite open, which is a precondition for attracting potential foreign
investors. Measures have also been initiated not only to open up the
banking system to foreign banks but also to open the domestic stock market
to foreign investors. The proposed program would minimize the adjustment
difficulties of opening up the relatively small-scale Korean stock market
and would prevent foreign takeover of local firms. As part of this first
stage, foreign security companies would be permitted to establish branches
in Korea. The proposals constitute an important step in the direction of
promoting the development of an efficient international capital market in
Korea. Although the balance of payments effects initially will be small,
this opening up of Korean capital markets should lead to significant
additional capital inflows over the longer term.
67.       Project Evaluation Procedures.  The experience of over-investment
and misallocation in heavy industries in the last few years raises the
question of the adequacy of the institutional arrangements to reduce the risk
of repeating these types of investments in the future. As noted above, for
this purpose the Government proposes to allow a greater play of market forces
and private initiative in determining investment patterns in the future.
However, for projects which have significant externalities or which are big
enough to have significant national impact in terms of credit or balance of
payments, the role of the Government in project appraisal remains important.
It was in order to meet this type of need that a Project Evaluation Bureau
(PEB) was set up in EPB in January 1978. The Bureau has established guide-
lines on the size and types of projects to be sent to it for examination;
these include not only 100% government projects but all large private project:s
for which government guarantees are requested. PEB now has a staff of over
30, many of whom have been sent abroad for short-term courses in project
evaluation. Project evaluation techniques are essentially the same as the
Bank's, using efficiency but not social prices.
68.       The Government also intends to strengthen the project appraisal
capacity in EPB and in operating ministries and agencies. It is, however,
desirable to ensure that strengthening of project evaluation units in the
Government does not conflict with the broader policy objectives of decentral-
ization in economic management-and movement away from directed credit. In
particular it is desirable that project evaluation units in the Government
concentrate on major projects with substantial externalities and thus
supplement rather than supplant the project evaluation activities of the
financial institutions and private sector.



- 24 -
69.       Action Program.  As part of the medium-term program to be
supported by the proposed SAL, the Government has therefore agreed:
(a) To review the existing system of industrial incentives and
import protection through tariff and nontariff barriers; once
the initial review is completed this unit would have continuing
responsibility for evaluating the operation of the incentive
system.
(b)  To carry out a five-year program, reviewed with the Bank, for the
lending operations of the Korean EximBank intended to meet the
medium- and long-term credit needs for machinery exports.
(c) To strengthen project appraisal capacity in EPB and in operating
ministries and agencies.
E. Domestic Resource Mobilization
70.       As already noted, a program for domestic resource mobilization is
necessary to match the program for improving external resource balance if
the latter is to be achieved without accentuating inflationary pressures.
In order to meet the Plan targets in investment and foreign savings,
domestic savings have to increase from 22% of GNP in 1980 to 30% in 1986.
While the major part of this increase can be expected to come from private
savings, as the economy comes out of recession, it is. not prudent to expect
an increase from this source of more than 6 percentage points, from 16% of
GNP in 1980 to 22% in 1986. Therefore, public savings have to increase from
6% GNP in 1981 to 8% of GNP by 1986 to meet the overall domestic savings
target. Unless public savings of at least 8% of GNP are realized by 1986,
it would be difficult to provide adequate local currency finance for
development projects. This latter reason assumes particular importance in
view of the fact that during the last few years a lack of adequate local
currency funds has become a problem for the implementation of development
projects, including some projects financed by the Bank (para. 96 below).
For the purpose of increasing public savings the program supported by the
proposed loan aims at (a) increasing the tax effort and (b) eliminating
agricultural subsidies.
71.       Increased Tax Effort.  Given the demands on current expenditures
(including defense needs and increased social development expenditures), a
significant increase in public savings will be feasible only if the tax
effort is increased significantly and the Government target is to raise
tax/GNP ratio from about 18% currently to 22% by 1986. Recent estimates of
tax elasticity in Korea indicate that in the absence of any changes in taxes
or in rates, a 7.5% p.a. growth in GNP would improve the tax/GNP ratio by
about 1 percentage point by 1986. To reach the target of 22% for this
ratio, additional tax measures would thus be necessary. Among the measures
that are under consideration for raising taxes are:
(a) rationalization of exemptions in corporate tax and import tariffs;
(b) upward adjustment in property taxes;



- 25 -
(c) a gradual increase in the tax rates on interest and dividend
income currently taxed separately at the source with the tax
rate typically at 10%;
(d) reduction in the share of income earners exempted from income tax
from the current level of 68%; and
(e) an education surtax.
72.       Action Program.  With changes in the tax system, along the lines
indicated above, the government general account revenues are projected to
increase by 10% p.a (at 1980 prices) during 1981-86. As a first step the
Government has proposed to the National Assembly an education surtax and
other measures, which together with the built-in elasticity of the tax
system, are projected to increase the tax/GNP ratio from about 18.2% in 1981
to 18.9% in 1982. Also the lag in revenue collections from the new measures
should contribute to an additional 0.2% improvement in the tax ratio in 1983.
73.       Elimination of Deficits of Grain Management Fund (GMF) and
Fertilizer Fund (FF). With a view to improving rural incomes and achieving
self sufficiency in rice and barley, the Government has been pursuing a
program of price support for these products since the early 1970s. Under
this program, a government agency, NACF, buys from farmers specified
quantities of grains at fixed prices and sells them to consumers in urban
areas. Government selling prices are lower than the cost of purchase and
both prices are considerably higher than international prices. As a result,
deficits in the Grain Management Fund (GMF) in 1980 amounted to W 390
billion (or W 283 billion after adjustment for stock changes).
74.       The Government, through its intermediary NACF, also operates the
Fertilizer Fund (FF) for the purchase and distribution of fertilizer. It
contracts with the fertilizer companies to buy a certain mix of fertilizers
at agreed prices. The product is then sold to farmers at prices fixed by
the Government. The FF was more or less in balance until 1978 when a
W 19.7 billion deficit was incurred. By 1980 the annual deficit had grown
to W 151.3 billion, with the cumulative deficit being W 322.8 billion.
75.       In 1980, deficits in the GMF and the FF amounted to about W 500
billion, equivalent to about 8% of government revenue, or 1.4% of GNP. The
government program for restructuring rural income support, still under
development, aims at eliminating these deficits and to provide rural income
support through agricultural and off-farm rural investments.  The elements
of this program are noted below.
76.       Action Program for Elimination of Subsidies.  The basic objective
of the Government is to eliminate operating losses in the Grain Management
Fund and Fertilizer Fund by 1986. The Government also expects to reduce the
gap between the domestic producer price and import price for rice and to
reduce the level of government involvement in the marketing of rice and
barley. In mid-1981 the ratio between government selling price and purchase



- 26 -
cost (i.e. purchase price plus handling cost) was about 80% for rice, 45%
for barley and 66% for fertilizer. In order that the operating subsidies
are eliminated by 1986, the above ratio needs to be increased at an annual
average rate of about 5% for rice, 17% for barley and 9% for fertilizer.
For 1982, the Letter of Development Policy notes the Government's intention
to "reduce substantially the ratio between the government buying and selling
prices" for these commodities. The Government has subsequently advised that
this should be interpreted to mean that by March 1982 the ratio between the
government selling price and buying cost shall be increased over the same
period in 1981 by at least 5% for rice, 15% for barley and 10% for fertilizer.
However, to the extent that the increase in the ratio for either of the
commodities covered by the GMF exceeds these percentages, the Government may
apply such increase to make offsetting adjustments with respect to the
stated increase in the ratio for the other commodity.  For example, if in
1982 the ratio for rice is increased by 8%, only a 7% increase in the ratio
for barley will be required to achieve the overall objective of reduction in
GMF subsidy in that year.
77.       Rural Investment.  The program for the elimination of agricultural
subsidies, while contributing to an improvement in the fiscal position, cculd
have an adverse effect on farmers' income, unless corrective measures are
taken. Government therefore intends to redirect the savings from the
elimination of agricultural price subsidies to rural investments. While EL
comprehensive and integrated rural development program has not yet been
developed, the broad order of magnitude of the investment program and its
principal directions have been formulated. During 1982-86, the annual
agricultural investment program of the Government is expected to be marked[ly
higher than the current level. Investment programs include land consoli-
dation, irrigation, land reclamation, reforestation, expansion of cash
crops, farm mechanisation, marketing and processing development, and
livestock and fishery projects. Investment for off-farm employment creation
in rural areas is seen as primarily a private sector responsibility with the
Government's role being limited to providing tax incentives and essential
infrastructure for rural industry. To provide further information needed
for the development of the investment strategy in agriculture as implemen-
tation of the proposed program proceeds and to help in planning for future
adjustments, a task force will be established. The task force will also
review the issues of long-term shifts required in agricultural production
patterns with changing comparative advantage.
PART III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Loan History
78.       As already noted, the possibility of a structural adjustment loan
(SAL) was first raised by the then Deputy Prime Minister of Korea during his



- 27 -
visit to Washington, D.C., in February 1980. At that time, Korea was going
through a period of serious economic difficulty and political uncertainty.
The Government had undertaken several important measures on exchange rates,
interest rates and energy prices and the economy was in need of balance of
payments support. It was agreed that the possibility of an SAL would be
pursued, and the Government began preparation of a comprehensive program of
structural adjustments designed to tackle the balance of payments problem that
Korea was facing as a result of the oil price hikes and changed international
environment. The Government's first presentation of its program to the Bank
came at the Consultative Group meeting in Paris in June 1980. Following
discussions at this meeting the program was further developed and discussed
with the Bank at the 1980 Bank-Fund Annual Meetings.
79.       The objective of the Government's program for structural adjustment:
was to restore the momentum of growth while keeping the balance of payments
gap within manageable limits and achieving reasonable price stability and
social equity. The program covered a very wide spectrum including restruc-
turing of industrial investment, reform of the rural income support program,
measures for energy conservation, improvement in manpower planning and labor-
management relations, import liberalization and tariff reform, accelerating
export growth through exchange rate flexiblity and other export incentives,
restraining imports of oil and capital goods, stimulating foreign investment
and import of technology, strengthening the budgetary position and liberaliz-
ing the financial sector. Following a review of the Government's proposals
within the Bank, a preparation mission visited Korea in November/ December
1980. Based on the results of this mission, it was agreed that for the
proposed structural adjustment loan, the program would focus on three areas:
improving energy efficiency, improving industrial efficiency, and domestic
resource mobilization. The Government subsequently refined the proposals
for structural adjustment and the loan was appraised in March/ April 1980.
Negotiations were held from August 31 to September 4 in Washington D.C. and
from October 12 to 16 in Seoul. The Korean delegation was headed by Mr. Soo
Byung Choi, Director-General, Economic Cooperation Bureau, EPB.
B. Relationship Between the Proposed Loan and Policy Reforms
80.       The proposed loan will provide foreign exchange in support of the
Government-s medium-term program aimed at substantial reduction in the
current account deficit as a ratio of GNP over the years 1981-86. The
program is set out in a Letter of Development Policy which has been received
from the Government. A copy is attached as Annex IV. The specifics of the
action program, the rationale for which is discussed in Part II above, are
shown in Table 3 and are divided into the following categories:
(a) actions for structural adjustment taken since the initial dialogue
on the loan took place;
(b) understandings reached during negotiations; and
(c) action program through the end of 1982.



Table 3
Page I of 4
KOREA:  Structural Adjustment Loan Action PrograP
Action program under SAL
Complementary action
Additiona.l              program under IMFP
Actions Since SAL            Understandings reached          act ions through          agreemen.ts and other
Objectives/strategy               Instruments                 discussions started             during negotiations             end of 1982                Bank upernti-no            Expected results
1. Improvin1g Exports
- Continuing empha-
sin on
export-oriented
strategy
- Reinstatement of        Exchange rate                 vi-aluatio  of weon                                                                       thining         lett   n      The cotinued
the policy of                                         vis-a-vis US$ hy ahout                                                                    of Intent tn the TM11         hility In exchange
exchange rate                                         27% betwees January                                                                       provides for main-            tate wiil Safeguard
flexibility.                                          1980 and Deceaber                                                                         raining flexibility is        the adjustment in BOIP
1980.  Trhe real                                                                          the exchange rate with        achieved is 1980/51.
effective exchange                                                                       a view to safeguarding
rate depreciated In                                                                      international competi-
1980 by about 11%.                                                                        tiveness.
- Continuing rem-         Wage policy                   Helped by the Govern-                                                                                                   The conti nation of
traint on wages,                                      ment Policy of utging                                                                                                   wage reatraint iill
particularly                                          wage restraint, the                                                                                                     help in safeguarding
public sector                                         onit labor costs in                                                                                                     the export competi-
wages.                                                manufacturing increased                                                                                                 tive ne.x  achievd by
increased In 1980 hy                                                                                                    1981.
about 19% only, whereas
the unit export prices
(in won) increased by
about 32%. This
resulted in a 10%
reduction in unit labor
coats in teens of
export prices. The
increase in nominal
wages tn manufacturing
was 23% and real wages
declined by 5%.
- Increasing              Export incentives                                           Government has prepared    Implementation of                             -                Balance of payments
iong-term  finsn-                                                                   and will carry out a a       Kre  EXII  Bank-. pro-                                       impact not quantified.
ring for export of                                                                  program for the ahbsta-    gram for 1992.
machinery.                                                                          tial expansion of Korea
EXIM Bank's financing of
exports of machinery
from Kores.
- Improving export                                      Simplification of
procedures.                                           export procedures
resulting in a signi-
ficant reduction in
costs of processing
exports.
lT.Improving Investment
Efficiency
- Consolidation of        (See measures under IV
investment, shift       below.)
in investment prio-
rities, deferral
of major proiects.
- Change in economic    (See measures under IV
management process-   below.)
reduction in dits-
cretionary inter-
vention by Govern-
ment in financial
sector.



Table 3
a-ge 2 of 4
Action program under SAL
Complesmentary action
Additionial                program under IMF
Actions since SAL             Understandings reached           actions through             agreements and other
Objectives/strategy              Instruments                  discussions started              during negotiations               end of 1982                 Bank operations              Expected results
lI Ii .l _ving  Energy          Diversification of             Decision to use non-oil    Goverment will request
Rfficiency                 energy sources.                 fuel (coal, nuclear and    Bank advice on implemen-
- Formulation of an                                       LNG) for all future             tation of proposed LNG
energy policy which                                     electricity plants.            investments.
emphasizes: (a) on
supply side, di-         Pricing policy                 Between January 19R0           The full increases in         - Energy cost increases                       -                 Coal and diesel price
versification with                                      and April 1981, coal           all energy costs to be           to be passed orn to                                          increases estimated
regard to type of                                       prices increased by.           passed on to consumers;         consumers.                                                    to lead to import
fuel (particularly                                      73%, average petroleum         the ratio between             - Domestic coal price                                          savings equivalent to
switch to coal and                                      product prices by 136%         domestic coal price and         relative to coal import                                       $750 million (1980
nuclear and reduc-                                      anid industrial elec-          imported coal prices to          price increased by about                                     prices) per year or
tion of dependence                                      tricity prices by 102%.    be increased from 55%               16% in August 1981                                           about 0.9% of CNP by
on oil) and with                                                                       in 1981 to virtual            - The ratio of retail                                           1986.
regard to source of                                                                    parity by 1986; the             diesel price to gaso-
import (reducing                                                                       ratio between diesel             line price to be
overwhelming de-                                                                       price and gasoline               increased by abouit 10%
pendence on Middle                                                                     price to be increased           by June 30, 1982.
East); (b) on                                                                          from 36% in 1981 to              Implementation of the
demand side, re-                                                                       about 66% by 1986.               agreement on Task Force
ducing energy                                                                          A task Force on energy          on energy pricing.
intensity of output                                                                    pricing to be set up.
through appro-
priate market            Institution building           - Preliminary energy           Energy shadow prices          - In-depth energy audit                                         Saving energy imports
prices of energy,        and financial assis-             audits conducted for         to be used in project            for at least one                                             of about $225 million
use of appropriate    tance for energy                     some 800 plants in          evaluatiotn.                     leading plant in 6-8                                         (1980 prices) per year,
energy shadow            conservation.                     1980.                                                        energy-intensive manit-                                      or about 0.25% of GNP
prices in evalu-                                        - W 230 billion of                                              facturing subsectors.                                        by 1986.
ating energy-                                             credit funds provided                                        Energy saving actions                                                                     N
intensive projects,                                       for energy conser-                                            to be adopted for each
technical and                                             vatiolS.                                                      plant to be reviewed
financial assis-                                                                                                       with Bank by May 1982.
tanice for energy                                                                                                    - Workshops and overseas
conservation and                                                                                                        training for energy
deferral of narti-                                                                                                      conservation programs.
cularly energy-                                                                                                      - Government finianicial
intensive expendi-                                                                                                     assistance for in-
Cures.                                                                                                                 depth energy audits,
and opening up energy
audit activity to the
private sector.
Deferral of energy-            Deferral of expansion          Government to review
intensive expenditures         plan in petro-                 with the Bank feasi-
chemnicals.                    bility studies for the
third petrochemical
complex if revived.



Table I-
Page 3 ,Sn 4
Act ionj.roSam u nder SALJ_                          _
Compl-u,oetary action
Additional                 program  un 3er 1MP
Actions sloce SAL             lJnderstandings reached            actions through              agreements and other
Objectives/strrtegy               Instruments                   discussions started                durinng negotiations              end of 1982                  6ar:k operation.              Expected resulvs
IV. Improving todo,triat
______              _
Reduced Government   Industrial Incentive                - Foreign Investments            Government to:                  New unit to review              Agreements under I RD            Bala.nce of paywents
intervention  in         Syntcm                            Inducement Act modi-           - set up a unit for             industrial tiucentive            loans, (1i81) to Korea          impact .ignlflcant but
directing credit                                           fied tn 1980, liber-             ongoing review, and           system to be estal-             Lung Tern Credit Bank            not quantifiable.
and selecting In-                                          alizrig policies for              for redesign as appro-   lished and oPerate In                and Korea Developmennt
vestment projeets.                                         Inducing foreign                 priate, of the nystem         accordance with TOR              ank provides for
Correcting discri--                                        capital inflows in               of industrial 4ncen-          and schedule agreed at          Goveronent commitmnent
mination in allo-                                          induqtries, in coam-             tive and import pro-          negotiattons.                    for a gradual reductioni
cstiun of funds to                                         sercial banks and in             tection through                                                tn the scope of directed
light industries.                                          capital markets.                 tariff and nontariff                                           tending cnd for bring--
Greater autonoomy                                        - Import tariffs an a              barriers.                                                      toig interest charged by
to  financial                                              ratio of nonoil                - consider, in consul-                                          institutiofn   in the
institutions.                                              imports for domestic             tation wfth the                                               Korean fonanclal svstem
Appropriately                                              use declined from lIfZ           Bank, advancing the                                            to a vositive levei In
high interest                                              In 197Z to 12% in                date (presently                                                real . lrlen.  Als;s
rates (at least                                            1980.                            Dlecember 31, 1984)                                           agreen.-nts have betn
positive  in real                                          Import tiberalization            by which NIP will                                              reached  Cor etudiles to
terms) to e. outr-                                         raLio (defined as the            cease financing                                                be undertakel. On 11.,
age econnay of                                             proportion of Iteas              through thie coenrer-                                         enpoEt crcdit Programe
capital use.                                               on automatic import              cfal hbanks, after                                             the roiC  of nsonseerc-!L
Consolidation ot                                           list) was Lncreased               the study on the                                             bhaItos  n the Flooan.irl
to.eestment in                                             from  69% in 1980 to             future role of the                                            syste, acd th.e inter-
hes-,y industries                                          74% in 1981 and is               NIF is completed by                                           nnationAtlzationn  of
ernd reailgnment                                           seheduletn  to be                December 31, L981.                                             K.rea; eapital iarkers
f or better use nn                                         increased  to 907 by
existing capaetty.                                         1985.
Project ovil-rtion system                                        Government t-o strengthen    Implemsentationn of a                             -                 Balannc- mt nawpea-ts
project evatnation   ol-nts   progran to strengthen                                              Imnpact not rnInnti-fthihe
in the Govcr-ment.             the (;nr ernmentvs
p, oJcct evaluiat ton
canacity.
Reotr,,ctnirfng aotonor,ile    - Realignment of prnmduct    GOvecnMnlnent to:                    -- Impin.e ntatinnn of the                     -- The cuttloted cat
indistra                          linen in the industry.         - defer aotomotbilc               progr.sa of stnnaLs oee                                           popnnlieioo  inn L9l6
p1lnt expanslon penni-          automnobile  industry                                            w-)nMnd he 0.1e  M liCe,,
Ing a feaqtbtli:v               and Impect of motori-                                            rauther thar O J nit-
study and A sudy of             nation, egroed at                                                lien,  Fetiqlotad
impact of rp-t1 mnotor--        negotiations.                                                    ,ssing  in Jempots
ization (snnh studies         - Automobile pnrts L;)skt                                          q22l  lit lin  (1980
Lo be reviewed with             force to carry out                                               prices) per year, er
the Hank)5                      work accordlntnc   to TOR                                        0.25% of GNi  by tlii,.
- not provide filuanncial         and schedinle agreed                                           - Deferral of inveel-
incentives for stitrulat-    at negotiatloons.                                                    ents in A utonno hile
inig private demand ifor                                                                         assembly a-, inn-
a utomoble.s pending                                                                             creased anssisance to
completion of above                                                                              a.tnn parts lndost-y
studties withoL                                                                                  -satimated to inprovo
discussion with the                                                                              trade balance by
Bank:                                                                                            ahn,On  $250 nf11;iLn
- set up task force to                                                                             (1980 prices) or 0.3Z3
prepare a plan for pro-                                                                          of INP by lStS  iljnn.gh
motion or anu-o m'lie                                                                            ex'orL pronotmtoon
parti  Indnistry.                                                                                and/or lnport saving,



Page 4 of 4
Action prograg under SAL
Additional               progra-  under IMF
ActiOfs since SAb,          1nderstandiegs reached          actions throuph           agree..raet  and other
Objectives/strategy             gn-tr-sefts                diacosfions st.rted            during negotiations             end of 19R?               Bank operations             Expected retults
Rertructuring heavy          - Mergers -nd realign-        -s-ernte. to f:              Beavy tachinery task                      -                - Eaving of duplicative
.aahioery ..ector              mee t in factories          - set up a task forte to   torte to catty Out ,'oth                                        tv-etmnet abhut $5(i
producing general            make an is-depth analy-  according to TOR and                                            million with import
plant equipsent,             sir for rationalizing    o.chedole agreed at                                             content of shout $250
pnwer plant equip-           the heavy m-chinery        negotiations.                                                 million.
rent, nurine diesei          sector, particularly                                                                   - Improved production
engines, heavy indue-        for promotion of                                                                         of shout $400 ailli..
trial equipment and          exports and strength-                                                                    per gar ith net
related comp .... n.         esing the esginettriog                                                                   import saving of
capacity in the                                                                           hboot $200 million
sector;                                                                                  per year, or 0.25% of
-deter support fnc                                                                        GNP?.
investments in heavy
machinery Sector
other than for cam-
pletion of ongoing
pro.jects or balancing
of production pending
ctmpletion and review
with the lank of
shove analysis.
V.Donestic Resource         Improving public                           -               Phblic savings to be
Mobilliation               acinvgs                                                   raised from 62 of GNP
- Increase in saving                                                                 in 1980 to BY by 19g86.
propensity to match
the inve.stent seeds   (i)  Inctreazig                            -                Tax/GNP ratio to be          Th. education surtax snd                                    Enpected to contribute        -
- increased tames and           tax/GNP ratio                                        raised to 22% by 1986.       other meas.res included                                     to raising public
reduced subsidies                                                                                               in the g-oernment budget                                    savlngs by 2% of GNP
for increase in                                                                                                 for 1982 together with the                                  by 1986.
public savings                                                                                                  built-in elasticity of the
- positive interest                                                                                                tan system are pro-lected to
rates and financial                                                                                             increase the tan/GNP ratio
liberalization for                                                                                              from about 18.2% in 1981 to
increase in private                                                                                             18.9f in 1982.  Also the
savings (see                                                                                                    lag in revenue from the mew
measures under TV                                                                                               seasores should contribute
above).                                                                                                         to an additional 0.2%
imp-ovement in the too
rstio in 1983.
(ii)  Redcinog  -bst-        T-crease In rice and         Govetnment to:                - Increase- in grain          Policies and prograss         Savings in 4uhsidies
dien                   barley selling prices        - establish a ftve-year         and fertili-er prices    id-ntified by Task              carreotly equivalent to
by 42% and 33%                 pr-gran to elininate           so folss.s: by March       Force asder SAL are to       about 1% of GNP.
reopectiwely in see-ral        subsidy in GMF and            1982 the ratio between   he included in o
steps during 1980.             Pertilizer Fund by 196;   the govern- ent selling   proposed futore agri-
Smaller increases in         - establish a Task Force        price and buying cost    cultural sector loon.
purchase prices of             to review the effects         shall be increased over
of these grain; (22%           of proposed programs          the saloe period in 1981
for rice and 19% for           of elinination of sob-        by at least S% for rice,
barley).  Increase in          sidies on agricultural        15% for barley and IOY
fertilizer sale price          production, rural             for fertilizer.  fo the
by 50% on Deceaber 1,          incooes, and food            extent that the increase
1980.                          imports, and to pre-          in the ratio for any of
pare praposals for           the comaodities covered
investment in rural          by the GMF e-ceeds these
areas and other policy       percentages, such in-
reforms in order to          crease could be applied
minimize the adverse         to Rake off-etting
effects of subsidy           adjustmentn with respect
elisination 6n rural         to stated increases in
incomes.                     the ratio of the other
commodity.
- Imple-entation of the
agrc-mcat on the Task
Force.



- 32-
81.        In crder to anal yze the i ssues relating to the structural adjust-
ment program ar do de-velop specific action programs for future implementa-
tion, the Govercment         setw us Lhe followIng task forces/working units:
(a)  a tas    forcae on- eorgy pricing to further devnrelop pricing
1nri' as                                                or - efr earry arc4 recim end2 prie changes for coal,
petrolra- uT aru:          electricity;
(b)  enecgy s < t -na  ezergy conserv,Tation Wnorke-hoPs to:
(±3  ca'r-2 rout eargy audits and develop actin programs for
energy saviLg "a a samplpe of firms in energy intensive
industrie   onil-d (ii.'- carry ott a training program in energy
cor.srva tion;
(c)  a task forco onr the automobile industry to:  (i) investigate the
factors affecting Korean exports of manu factured vehicles;
(it) examine the imnact of increased autor0obile use; and
(iii''  prepare a program to promote the production and export of
ttle auto3mobile narts industry;
(d)  a task force ,n the heavy machAnery industry to:  (i) assess
the invesrzent requnirements to rationalize existing capacity;
an-d (Iii)l fo*nulate an e-xport strategy and a plan to strengthen
the eag--ineer'ng capacity of the heavy ma hinery industry sector;
(e)  a unit tto.:&   (i) examine the existing system of industrial
incentives; and (ii) advise, on a continuing basis, on necessary
changes in  ihe Incentive system;
(f)  a task fo-ce to prepare a program for strengthening the
Governmcnt s project evaluation capab4lit±es including the
development of criteria for selecting, evaluating and determininlg
the macro-economic effects oF projects approved or supported by
the Goverardient: and
(g)  a task_ force on the restructuring of the rural income support
program to:  <lz cons.der the potential effects of proposed
programs to eliminate agricultural subsidies on agricultural
production  rural incomes and food imports, and (ii) prepare an
tnvestment program  for rural areas and other measures to minimize
the adverse affects of subsidy elimination on rural incomes.
82.        Tthe staffiag for each  o the studies and task forces would be
completed by Decaber         1%I aad initial? reports subnitted for review with
the Bank by Septm-      3   1123
C.  Benef Its arnc' fi-Js
83.art i                      Ig Aatuick-dishursin.g foreignr exchange, the pro-
posed loan is expecteA to cont-ribute to awrove ment an Korea's ability to



- 33 -
raise funds from international capital markets on reasonable terms.  In
spite of a relatively low target of net foreign capital inflow (3% of GNP)
by 1986, Korea's gross borrowing requirements are quite substantial (about
$10 billion per year) and the proposed loan would help sustain the confidence
of the capital markets in Korea's economic management and creditworthiness.
84.       The nonfinancial benefits of the loan are in the form of policy
adjustments leading to improvement in the balance of payments over the
medium term. The estimates of the balance of payments impact of the
structural adjustment program are presented in the last column entitled
"Expected results" in Table 3. An attempt has been made to estimate the
impact over the five-year period (1982-86) instead of making year-by-year
estimates. Only the direct effects of the program are estimated. For
several items in the action program such as those involving institution
building, no quantification of the balance of payments impact is possible.
85.       The government program aims at improving the current account
balance by 4% of GNP (equivalent to $5.6 billion) in current prices over the
period 1982-86. This would result in reducing the current account gap (not
including the special rice imports of 1981) from 7% in 1981 to 3% by 1986.
The quantifiable portion of the action program supported by the proposed SAL
is expected to contribute 2 percentage points (equivalent to $2.8 billion in
current prices) to this objective. Of this, about 1.2 percentage points is
expected to come from energy-saving measures including increases in coal and
diesel prices. The program for industrial realignment covering the auto-
mobile industry, heavy machinery and other heavy industry, and the program
for slowing down the pace of motorization are expected to contribute 0.8
percentage point of improvement through import substitution and/or export
promotion. Measures to improve the tax/GNP ratio and eliminate agricultural
subsidies will contribute to increasing public savings by 2 percentage
points of GNP by 1986.
86.       The main risks to the successful implementation of the program
arise from uncertainties regarding the external environment which could
affect prospects for export growth and interest rates in international
capital markets.
D. Loan Amount
87.       The proposed loan of $250 million would meet about 2.5% of the
gross capital inflow requirements of Korea in 1982. The amount of the pro-
posed loan was determined in the light of the size of the Bank-s lending
program for Korea and the maximum that the Bank could make available to
support policy reforms of the type being undertaken in view of other prior-
ity projects for which Bank assistance has been requested. The first
$150 million of the loan will be available for disbursement when the loan
becomes effective. A second tranche of $100 million would be released for
disbursement after the Bank has reviewed and is satisfied with the progress
achieved by Korea in carrying out the measures agreed under the proposed
loan. Such review is expected to take place before June 30, 1982.



- 34
F.  Categories of Goods to be Financed
8d.       All goods imported i nto Korea, except those in a few categories
which are specifically excludded, would be eligible for financing under the
loan,  The excluded categorles involve goods which are being otherwise
f1nanced by national or interunational1 Linancing institutions or any other
agency, goods intended for uilitary or para-military use, and goods for
luxury consumption.  More specific exclusions include alcoholic beverages,
tobacco  preciouS and semni-precious stones, and jewelry, gold, nuclear
reactors and part;, and urartium.i  It is expected tl:hat disbursements will be
complered by 'December 3i, l   992.
F.  Cotinternart F-ands
89.       The Korean won generated by the imports financed under the loan
will be credited to a special account that will be established in the Bank
of Korea. The Government has indicated its intention to use the counterpart
funds to finance expenditures included in its development program.
G.  Procurement and Disbursement
90.        Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector
estimtated to cost th?e equivalent of less than $5.0 million each will be
awarded on the basis of normal. commercial practices of the purchaser.
Public sector imports under contracts below $5.0 million equivalent will be
procured in accordance with standard government practices, which are
acceptable to the Bank. All purchases in the amount of $5.0 million or more
under a single contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan will.
be procured from eligible countries in a manner consistent with Bank Guide-
lines for Procurement, with contracts awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder. Certain commonly traded commodities may be purchased
through price quotations available from their organized international
commodity markets, which is acceptable.  Whatever procurement methods are
used, not more than 25% of the funds could be used to finance the Import of
aniy trade classi-fication subgroup. Prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first withdrawal application with respect to each contract for $5.0 mil--
lion or more, the-Borrower v.4ill submit a brief report in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank on the procedures followed in awarding the
contract, including a copy of the contract and an analysis of the respective
bids or price quotations.  If the Bank reasonably determines that the
procedures for any contract were inconsistent with the above understanding,
which are set forth in Schedule 3 of the draft Loan Agreement, no expend-
itures under the cortract will be financed out of the proceeds of the loan.
The Bank will prompt-ly irorm  the Bor1rower and state the reason for such
etermination.



- 35 -
91.       The Government of the Republic of Korea will be the Borrower.  It
has designated the Korean Exchange Bank to be responsible for maintaining
the loan account, the collection and coordination of the relevant letters
of credit and supporting documentation and for the preparation and sub-
mission of withdrawal applications.
92.       Procurement and disbursements for the proposed loan have been
designed to ensure rapid drawdown of loan proceeds. The proposed loan will
be disbursed at the rate of 100% of the c.i.f. cost for items directly
imported after signing the loan through reimbursement to the borrower or
direct payment to foreign suppliers. Expenditures for goods procured under
invoices for $100,000 equivalent or less will not be eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the loan. Reimbursement applications normally would
be consolidated and submitted from time to time in amounts of at least $1.0
million equivalent.
H.  Relationship with IMF Operations
93.       There has been an extensive exchange of information and consultation.
between the Bank and the IMF during the preparation of the proposed loan. An
IMF staff member participated in the appraisal mission.
94.       Korea has made use of Fund resources under stand-by arrangements,
the compensatory financing facility and the oil facilities (see Annex V).
A two-year standby arrangement was approved on March 3, 1980 in the amount of
SDR 640 million (250% of quota), of which SDR 320 million was drawn during
1980. Following the increase of Korea's quota under the Seventh General
Review, and at the request of the Korean authorities, the two-year program was
cancelled after one year and was replaced by a one-year standby arrangement
in February 1981, in the amount of SDR 576 million, or 225% of quota. The
principal objectives of the economic program supported by the IMF are to
restore reasonable price stability, maintain external competitiveness and
strengthen the balance of payments while achieving a satisfactory rate of
growth. The program contains as performance criteria a ceiling on total
banking system credit with a subceiling on net credit to the public sector;
limits on the contracting of public and private external loans with maturities
up to 12 years; and understandings pertaining to multiple currency practices,
restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions
and restrictions on imports for balance of payments reasons. To date, all
performance criteria have been met. The program also provides for continued
flexibilty in the exchange rate for safeguarding international competitive-
ness.
95.       The current standby program with the IMF ends in December 1981 and
does not therefore include macroeconomic targets or projections beyond 1981.
The Bank staff has been advised by the IMF staff that the Korean authorities
are contemplating to enter into an additional arrangement with the Fund
involving use of resources in the upper credit tranches. Macroeconomic
targets or projections incorporated in any additional arrangement with the



- 36 -
Fund shall be taken into account in assessment of the progress in implementa-
t4on of the ad justment program supported by the proposed SAL.
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE PROPOSED LOAN
96.       As of September 30, 1981, Korea had received 57 Bank Loans (includ-
ing one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $3,335.02 million in
loans and $106.81 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and
the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan).  As of that
date, $1,162.3 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on
effective Loans and Credits. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
Loans, IDA Credi!ts, and IFC Investments as of that date and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Progress on project implementation is
generally satisfactory; however, delays in several projects - for irrigation
highways anid population - have occurred due primarily to increased costs and
shortfalls in government budgetary contributions. The Government is taking
measures to increase local funding of the affected projects.
97.       The current pipeline of projects contains a set of interrelated
ac_I ities in the areas of industry, agriculture, transportation, education,
and urban development. In the coming years, it is planned to include a
steadily increasing proportion of sector lending as the capacity of Korean
institutions to handle this type of lending continues to expand. The
proposed project and sector lending program bears a close relationship to the
structural adjustment program, and to the social development objectives
stated in the draft Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86).
98.       Support for lending to industry by the major financial institutions
has been a significant focus of Bank activity in Korea.  An ongoing series
of loans to the major development banks provides a vehicle for a dialogue
between the Bank and the Government on financial reform and industrial
policy. Understandings reached in connection with the most recent loans to
the Korea Development Bank (Loan 1933-KO) and Korea Long Term Credit Bank
(1932-KO) both signed on January 14, 1981, provide for a gradual reduction
in the scope of directed lending and for bripging interest rates charged by
institutions in the Korean financial system to a positive level in real terms
In addition, agreements have been reached under these loans for studies to
be undertaken on the export credit program, the role of commercial banks in
the financial system and the internationalization of Korea's capital markets.
Thus there is a close link between these operations and the industrial
restructuring program to be supported by the proposed SAL. Proposed lending
for a new technological development corporation and for the small and medium
machinery industries are also related to the overall SAL goals for the
development of the industrial sector.
99.       In agriculture a major portion of Bank lending in Korea has been
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development, the
provision of credit to farmers and processors of agricultural products and
for rural infrastructure in support of the Government's rural development



- 37 -
program. Loans under preparation include one for improving the Seoul
wholesale marketing system. Studies which would be conducted in conjunction
with the SAL would identify policies and investment programs which will help
lay the basis for a proposed future agricultural sector loan.
100.      The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and paving, and port expansion. Proposed future
operations in the transport sector are addressed to broad economic goals:
improving the distribution of two major raw materials - coal and cement -
and assisting the Government's program for agricultural areas through
lending for rural and secondary roads.
101.         The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the
requirements for appropriately trained workers and certain categories of
skilled manpower through its lending for education projects and the recent
education sector loan (1980). These activities have enabled the Bank to
maintain a close dialogue with the Government in its development of programs
and policies supporting manpower objectives closely linked to the industrial
restructuring program.
102.      Through two regional development projects and a loan for low-income
housing the Bank has been developing an active role in the urban sector in
Korea. The draft Fifth Five-Year Plan identifies improving urban services,
especially housing, as one of its major thrusts. It is planned to support
this effort through intensifying the dialogue on housing policy initiated
under the recent housing loan and through adopting a comprehensive approach
to urban lending through proposed operations for housing, water and sewerage,
urban transport and regional development.
103.      The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1980 was about 11%, and its share of debt
service was of the order of 7% at that time. These ratios are expected to
be around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-1980s.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
104.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
105.      Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The specific actions that the Government plans to take during
1982 are listed in the attachment to its Letter of Development Policy
(Annex IV).



- 38 -
106.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
107.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by: Ernest Stern
Attachments
November 17, 1981
Washington, D.C.



_ 39 _                                             ANNEX I
Page I of 5
KOREA REPUEL1C OF - SOCIAL INDICATCRS DATA SiHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS         1 WE10!-TJE$AOES
LA.D AREA (THOUSAND s9. KM.)                                                         _- MOST KECLNr FITIU' _1__)-
ACRICJLTURAL       22.7                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOlINE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMAIE ,'b        ASIA 4 PACIFIC    LATIN AML.AIUA 4 CARIbBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 10.0         420.0    ISOO.O                 1114.7                 1lS2.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRNAMS OP COAL EQU IVALENT)    258.0       815.0    1359.0                   842.4                  104.4
POPU1LATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      24.7         31.4      36.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7          40.7      52.1                   39.1                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILLIOSS)                        50.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (tSILLIONS)                         66.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPUILATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATIOS DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       251.0       319.0.    372.0                   376.1                    28..
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULIURAL lAND   1154.0        1371.0    1612.0                 2350.4                    Ni.?
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.9        41.0       35.9                   40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                          53.8        55.7       60.3                   56.2                    54.7
65 YRS. A!.D ABOVE                   3.3          3.3       3.8                    3.4                     3.9
POPULATION GROW1il RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.4       1-9                    2.4                     2.7
URBAN                               5.9         6.5        5.2                    4.1                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      41.0         30.0      21.0                   28.7                    34.E
CRUDE DEAIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.0         iO.0       8.0                    7.9                     8.9
CROSS REPRllDUCTION RkTE              3.1/c        2.6       1.4                    1.9                     2.5
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       672.0      686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          42.0       43.9                   39.0
PODS AND N.,R_ITTL1
INDEX CF F(A)b PR,ODICTION
PER CAPITA (1569-71-100)           89.0         99.0     115.3                  116.9                   146..9
PER CAPITA SU PPLY OF
CALORIES (PFRCEhT OF
REQOIRXEYETS)                   94.0       110.0      119.0                  1'i8.9                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           55.0        65.0       73.0                   60.3                    6S.6
OF WHICHl ANIMAL AND PULSE        7.0         8.0       15.0                   18.8                    33.7
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.0          8.0       5,0                    5.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.0          59.0      63.0                   63.0                    63.1
INFANT .ORTAL.ITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            62.0         43.0      37.0                   52.8                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         58.0      62.0                   42.4                    B5,9
URBAN                                ..         84.0      80.0                   62.1                    80.4
RURAL                                ..         38.0      36.0                   29.7                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         25.0      61.0                   52.8                    62.3
URBAN                                ..         59.0      68.0                   71.1                    79.4
RURAL                                '-          '-       50.0                   42.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3000.0       2110.0    1955.0                 4120.1                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3220.0/d    2170.0/d   510.0                  2213.6                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2482.0       1900.0    1569.0                  819.4                   480.3
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         14.9        ..                   28.8
HOUS ISOG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.6          5.3       5.1
URBAN                               5.4          5.0       4.9
Rl.RAL                              5.6          5.5       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.5          2.3       2.0
URBAN                               2.8          2.7       2..
RURAL                               2.4          2.2      .2.(1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              28.0         49.9        ..                     .
URBAN                              67.3         92.4
RURAL                              12.0         29.9      64.9



-         40 -                                        AN"EX I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SOREA REPUBLIC OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-__
OSET RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  94.0        105.0     111.0                    98.6                     99.7
MALE                  99.1        106.0      111.0                   99.2                     101.0
FEMALE                89.0        105.0      111.0                   97.7                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         43.0      88.0                    55.5                     34.4
MALE                  38.0         52.0       96,0                   60.7                      33.5
FEMALE                14.0         34.0       78.0                   49.9                      34.7
'OCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  14.0           16.0       16.0                   13.7                      38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0         57.0      49.0                    34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                           34.0         37.0      38.0                    28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PfERENT)         70.6         87.0       93.0                   85.8                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULA.ION                           0.4          2.0       3.5                     9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          32.0        131.0     144.0                   118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         14.0      66.0                    39.4                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENtERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0        138.0      173.0                     ..                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            5.0        2.2                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8237.0      10978.3   13767.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8         32.7      33.0                    36.8                     22.2
AGRICLLTURE (PERCENT)               66.4         51.0      41.0                    51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCEIT)                   9.3         20.1      37.0                    21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATlON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4         35.0      36.6                    39.1                      31.5
MALE                                  49.5         46.8       48.8                   48.5                      48.9
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0       24.2                   29.6                      14.0
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.4        1.1                    1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/e         17.1      16.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3W.         44.5      45.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77W          7.1        5.7
LDWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0k7         17.7      16.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USe PER CAPITA)
URBAN                           ,                  ..     320.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     270.0                   192.1                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US1 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           .      270.0/f                                          474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     227.07if                182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
IRBAN                                 ..           ..      18.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      11.0                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
aong the indicators depe.ds on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; snd for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic   1950-55;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the countryi Le 1965., /f Recent estimates are $370 and
$310 respectively.
IMost recent estinmate  of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
JR  For 1975 it is estimated that there were 2.5 persons per room
in urban areas.
lh  Recent estimate of total labor force (ehouc.auds) is 14206.0 of
which agriculture is 35.87. and industry 30.1%.
Most recent estimate of GCM  per capita is for 1979, all other
data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



41                                                  ~~~~~~ANNEX I
__________                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~Page   3   of    5
Noted;  Althaagh ace data Ato dr-er f- ro  roo-r  Sea.rlly jodged ths moet asaharitaitre Andreabe  it ohoold aloe br norted that they may  ot be latr-
aathu.. lly  -rm-rbhi b--to  of the Inat  of etasdordieed definttioas And do...Pto osod by diftfoeet  -trotrr  Is  orilettog the d.ata   The dots Ar ...sa-.
iheirt,oero  to d.a-fto. -rd-r  ofmt          itd. diosfe f erde, asd oh-etroet-  -rrtoi  major diff-rsnoe   brtoorooooorted..
The ref reo  gerap  are (I) the sam   o-otrty groop of tho subjeot ronetry sod (2) .  -sotry  tory ofth emeohAt htgie-    -geos  tnoro. than the  sanatry Vro.p
of the beh)o    -troty (..-ePt for "Cpto         -oplos Oil  eptoTt-"e fora  tehes 'tttcl  OT-m  North Afrti- AMd ttddlr  -t"t to rh..o. heoro    of eese
-eooto-toltrl  foti           . to th.  eeoe  groa  deto tho  -erooee  era peo tn.ifhtrd -tart-bet  mean  for roth  iadtetor and show  osly whe. At
I..ot bolt of the totto   to a snop h.o dote tar that tadto--r  Stdar the  -orrees  of -oontrtoo irn& the iodf-trent  dependo ro rho avilbhiltoy of
00t0 And Or art      nt,ooatioe moat be rsrtrfeet to r-lotiog  -verso  of ro  todtoatt-  to ooht   Their a-roeg                  - oreaey  Aenfal to tmprirt   ttr  -obe
rf  doa  inditato, t orA t1Ar A-o   the  -oastey ed rotarr-oA strops.
LAift 0R00 f thousand a.n)tPtto   e   hera n-oatnotlided by soer- at preottoing lot-
Total - T-ro  -oOloc  stA-sato            land area sod inland  -ntt.-o.    eoos  otfiad tr ooA -md                               ahe-i at ostoeroty Ieemi,
Asitrl- lothiate of ogero-losal area irod  -eP-roily or Pra-etly                    tOoatserNrtotro      osn ndioldod by esaht of P-ortilag
or crop., pantor-, tarta  ad kittchensde    Ir0   ie faitc; 1977 dm0.                     ml  ndfmt.geot    enre, pr-ttoot  -o.m, ond neiatatit soreei
p .. tito    r   rata   e   tota.  rban. and .sra1 - opolatlam  (tnt at
GNPt Ott CIdiTt  (000  - CP pen o-yita estimate, at --eroer sahe  priCes, oat.                 ort  r-d taro) diorded by rhot`nepetie  ,ohe  of hepitnat bade
rotated by  _    - -e teeton sthod A0 Wotld 3,0k Atlor (190709-  beets)   1960,              avattbir is pahlto And private grosra  -Aedoefld     hopital sAndr
100, And  .99yOdt.o                                                                          hbbttit."lo  oente.-  aoepitlal  see-rtsbli.I.Aeot. preaertly staffed
by it le"rt in  ph ror    oACbiiohannta p-rcdddog pitrpelly rortodiol
MtiftY tdONlttTtIl  ~Ptf C.0tt. .- danaI eoaonooton-o  ooeoet--i-         ra -    croal          c  oest inoladed.  tseo  bropitalo. h--er  i-slod. health cad ardleat
esntd otr  yorio,rtanl  sa.  And hydoo-, e-ieir od Oe-thrnoa  rleo-                          osem o rot peo-A-ett7 otafed by a phYnlotan (hot hY a oadtat ...otntent.
triottY) ho kitlog-a o   o of  -     raltPe.  .pit.a; 19600. 19y, and 1975mtr  mdte  atr.) wftto  offer ts-Patient oeoaoaieed pr-mide a
d."                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lim~ited r-aor of ordora! fotlitrtee    fap atotiottoi-  psrprr  -ieba beapt.-
POPULiTOOP 500 'P1101. OTOTIOTOIO                                     ~tab  te-tde VW.5 ptiotopol Seser-t ad  papsialdasd hoapitolr. *   d roes
POPMATION LM VITAL STATISTICS                                          b..~~~~~hop trslo 10001 or totel boepiti  sa   rtolmdmaent  rea
Tet.p   3.otol -tX,itd-te-r      tliao-As rf lar 1; l96P, tIWO, and 1907                   ddOsoe   e         pia   o    istat rAnbe- of1 adnrto itos  or dtahrsee
teotProoIon  -oeto ad tntatl  - facto of aehbn to toaal   plaie
am-ng  -n-nit; 11,60, 1970, And 1970 date..                                              Acet...Sj tof at io..hold (D.--   oatrr hsonrholdl  .rt.ohg.ot  ec.
Prpalotzor Projeotboom                                               ~~~~~~~A ho..ebeld  -orCt. of A Srasp of indiVidan1r  bs star  110009  95tO
tPolto  O   er  00-  afsopposdocretn   rehrlO                                              and ther  ai  mels    1 oder 0- todgerr may as ray ntr he trotodd is
to   I optaie  by ag. And r-an cd their martalfoy and  -tor itty -ot,t.            rho bro-.hotd tot ototti-to    patp....
pr'j"otio  Parameter  fot -martafy rates cornriA  of ibre  trorl  .7iOO               Amuroo  ranier ofArnoprro-rot   ra,sdoo                                  tge on
itog l1Ife-protsoy at $Irth i-rtmeins with _taustp   per t-pits tsrm                    he;r of proos  po roo  to lal  Ichat', end ro-        rttdCOetiONOl
II,t, and tsm  le Ott  euporoanoy orohiliatno at 071.  yeia.t.   The yar-                delis,r-sp-otaly.              . COselOf   -aiode r,-pereant otrotaan Anod
mt-t  for fertility rtoa  aloe hove thror Ienlo  sanr  deolloc to                       ---ropted parse.
f_rrtly  -roodtng tu inAee beret and pot fanily Plosolo  ptrfoeo-o                   oroest toinr ty .rsto  d-olliosof - toral,  -rha"   And  -Aos  -
tiob -orutry to thes a.Sotood usa of there sirs. -onhtnti-r  of morcoity                 taotbrldstllboea   t               at -lsrorlty is tiiotgantt  soPer-etass
and, iteoliry tadefort pr-jootiro  -p-roso.                                              of roral, ora,sd rotal doellirga tomp-ctively.
Stattate-  roolTt ...    ftA a stodtary Pepoltito thro- is an g00tf Ai.or
.b. booth cret is aqsal to the death rate, and 010  rho a-s ettarr  r-              EDUOCATION
_oaie teomaso.a   Thto ta  -rbio-d only after f-ttliry  -oto dorliot to                 dondfolrt  tiAto
of rmeo  eplase trnI   -etely   The stoti-na     popolattasete Was                     aetsto   f   50s   h   rmryIela   toear   fese
inothsat   so rh  boee   h    rtse   oeotreiso   he-tlto                                    ray -rhoe-ags popolattoe; normaly inolode  obhidres oAgd 6.-Il
tthyer0000.-ad the. rosa of drrli_o  f f-rility ra  tso roflor-                     ytar  hot adjoeted toe diffec-ot lobnof prinary ed=stien; foc
roeetle-el                                                                                  roOtIs  0h outr-r-a  sdo                nrletmy eard ill por-rt
'et oAtis    potoiariro  te  r-b    - Th. year shea statfo-y pupoltid-                      et-  som  poptlo  -c  heln or obys thr offtotal enheol oar.
oiae ham hoan  -oohaS .. Osodot rohool                                                                                 A oo,els and femal  - opnptad as shee; re--dary
Porolotirn troitty                                                    e~~~~~~~'_doaten rorn    t ea        tear eoro st appintd prnatvt.. istottloa
total oro.                                                                                 e-olly tof t2 to 17 peo    of spa;  dsoopoaera -n  -r  soorrlly
tsrso  h. aetolutla0ud - -apoted n  Oho          .t .r aetoltorai louderle.
64  oof  a -doire.  (01 Ieor  and tot  a   reetos  of nOd-pint oP.-                          dearly oroodep-taranto    of ohoondrey  -utttiors.
lotion; 100   O17, AolPOdae                                                                yel-sht    ti-poay.ed e                      aodr      oa   tun       naldt
yIoo       60p Latae0o   916 . 6-li a-dt-t-O.                                                  or1lpaddg eLls
Posltion Ocoth RtorIerosl--ooho  - A-051  e--oo  -sree of orantOt0                           Adid-oypoefert}- ieaeaoo   fat  r. rad. and teotr
hot-o  tO  11-0   1 0160-00  sad0 lOi,                                                        oop-aoas   0  ualool   opitleaidlb7anod   rr
trae .,  t tao(r        th nata) - da,al osath   po  -broo to   of  -. otdyeo     .        tasMolt tars,      rc Cos  t -osnd     prLiteo)-t  Piotroont.1 rat drmpld miate
yopoti.-on  190-60, 19600, od00 Adata.-  ,.  oaouatiro  Is   ofe tothl  ysrnoao;.tt osl dee                                                        5 ynsaeoo  hearena
Otoe Oorodooio  tae-At Aa o -IsIanter         h at  sahrtawo as :1  rat   isds1Ooyy.toes
hat rrral  nprodrtrst 7nd d it.oerperotpeetaouotI   a-                           000ioieo(prteen.osoir       I  ye   feoieetrrd
rItr   rto;  oall 90, ie-yaoo9 dceAso  r-ipt   00   90   r   07                       rmdsnot   era   oiopttonn   ipuplro;eeaO    o
of  tth-ua Rsldetee  sArr9 soeoenb   onatotfulposofPf dt05*                                  Pam  tofiror.. dta. feighot  yenta. ray aer- hron....A ht          - .t.. torn
PenlePaao    tor   ptmnomare    ni)-soeaoofsrtdsrttairibdtrsl.
F~~~lv P12~~~~~~~_Iddg   Aa.-t.mt eraor tralttsthr-rhonadroo- A=..                                                          tua  ae ninstotAo.,
Indr  oftro  trdooios  ea  oot  C1eN-l..l01    leeo   tte  of                  -atO-aar,oinL Ptoterr-n d.,rftrh.  Sd~rr-o  ~d.$~
too ar  anoludeb-).     Affor 15oor predrtlo  of mat rootry-to~ bod-d enT                                                                                     d..     
reporo, on  shaose -ootoc.  Neteapplrm  roludoastra  (red  seed.   an   tea    a  n  urn teydht  solel   toorwooa  ttod-ata  et ..
qoanietn  tod infoo  erosueno,  nd  osmr  do  ietthatos.Porpire  Oofoteoeu  o rrtoo   ooottioa00  oe to_aroie;_000  190  an
nestacrsrrln                                        ..t. hrdo    hytltel  te-  -or ao -ta   Antd  107   Pta
sir,sod  sslh oto:dthogeoerommnte  tomrrsaro,bro  weihts  ese   te -trortdont)    Pomals taho  tdotar a  ptrOonig   Ifort .absr fooe-.
aed ese ddtrthta  of psoaliti.                      "M tlco    gf orodr for. ratsit     Otlrbultor eifotC   p lahrt forento fomng, torcetAt-y.hotN an
cudroronte for all rosotries ortaluliabed hy 001kA pro .idodfec mhsinam
OllenAt o  of 00d)  Anam ,opnta pro-teIn pee-. dspsod  10 soma ofnoian                    100anF      90  os
Wrtl. toa -g.ey  1960-61, 1000. sad.    9116,190  100tdra                                  st-and n-   oeoeoiropoaoto.o   os  ie   cdtAtn  a!
Pertens rottO 0001  frm olea an  yata    prtri  ea.pply      foo    r         er  aetn    eout   o,ro
ner   (ten otta     an  plottoson   eeda;191-1  10  ad  00  at.                      toret Opodry ato- atnofPp"ote  edo   5  n  1   t  oe
sabsh    90   1tO  and 1909.. dotg,  od1 -I   i j.j.                q,-            Df hojtienhoLtds-.              '-    a.L160    90
ofety Mort ealth ss(a  haod  -Osal dotheo   ef . Ortot  anY _hass ygr ptVTOOTlC
.ot ga e .h.  son  lIes            i.                         _o    __.~A hireFttnte-bolt  a ert Iblaten - le el fOOl      on (total lrabo mf ruO-
Ar-s tefofo Wate (rtet st oorlaton                 -- ttl    e.t.rd tfarot      pi -        Aelt   teryiea   lsc-  f           o rin  latons,-t lve ed bss nfibih-ntma
sobr  of41 .rpb  (total  orhYaN, med  ural  rOth reaaao oft- rn  te agOR                   andtrol-sl            - re s. die  la..e er ta-l son-food rpetr t  ir mat
weersmppy troar t. 3 -risar  ..aorse l       or   r .rotd b      u SA9 i. t sststainat    off0 ctda198dta
f     ofteO  o   etcd -o loors  sot.  mare.i POa  190 seet 2re aE o     myh          ptest100 of          tbr toandry,  italoal        ta drivd f   ror -P-theiprare
tatidero p-tt. hoing   k~ oi10 g ronae le oobe at1- thor toos-  to.. rootftse-
orsenbl  ooro  wsh   mpy  eatth  htaaif  o  mnheo  f hn  eoeh _dIrewith T ooter  f or htbroota ofl iOr  In othan. erab.t-.A
f daastilty'o-of75P-o  totalr atofo0.ndf23.ErszoE.- a                                                    e-tenr ototal   potsor  (ra  andf_raralp ) whe ice  -npe.tlepoor
Ocse n  trrr P_tearet.(scoa fort  -oeleu p-p-eal. byha PAnd~t.Ti                             90    90   .   -7  dt.T..r   t0.-.     fd
coal-  anesa   pePI' feet, aeben, and  carol) ecrerd 10 enyofr       odeteE                      -   -oft.ppjtj.   n     ngt-te
Ofeproel asptteentago   of the5e rm970rdre197ctotdtse   P-orreta dim-                                         S -   aceain anof e    lsa- 1   d   vte And
ienlsdo4 -thecll Rtesas    a   ipel 01mb-d            ehceottetso,                                               Boesothd.slyotaanlPolb-tnanlaPt
pie privlee and eimdbas inetetlsetoos, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~An                              41 2..



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Population;  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                                                                                  Pags 4 ot S
CNP Per Capita:  US$ 1,516 (1980)
KOReA - ECONnMOC INDICATORS
Amount
(million U$ at                         Annual growth rntes (2) at constant prices
current prices)                           Ahtu at-l                                Projected
Indicator                            1980/a             1976      1977       1978      1979       1980/a     1981      1985       1990
NATIONAI, ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product             59,177             13.9      10.1       11.3.      7.1      -3.4         6.2       7.6       8.0
Agriculture                       9,754             10.7       2.1       -4.0       6.7     -22.0        24.0       2.5       2.5
Industry                         24,396             20.1      15.8       20.8       8.4      -0.4         4.0      10.0       10.0
Services                         25,027             10.8       9.7       11.0       6.0       2.4         1.4       7.0       7.0
Consusption                        45,215              8.8       7.1       11.0       7.4       -0.9        2.3       4.8       6.4
Gross investment                   17,889              8.0      24.0       35.9      17.5    -24.3         10.9       8.5       7.6
Exports of GCNS                    21,145             43.0      25.7       17.5      -3.6        9.6       11.6      11.0       10.6
Imports of CNPS                    25,846             26.9      23.8       29.1       8.6      -6.8         7.7       7.4       8.8
Cross national savings             12,268             42.3      17.3       14.9       2.4     -19.5         -         -         -
PRICES
CDP deflator (1975 - 100)                            116.3     135.8      164.6     197.4     250.3         _         _         _
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                               484.0     484.0      484.0     484.0     607.6         -         -         -
Export price index (1975 - 100)                      112.8     120.2      137.2     161.2      168.7      179.9     240.9     321.1
Import price index (1975 - 100)                      103.0     103.9      108.4     137.3     175.2       170.2     233.5     316.6
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                    109.5     115.7      126.6     117.4      96.3       105.7     103.2      101.4
Share of GDP at market prices (2)                     Average annual increase (I)
(at current prices)                                (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100 0           8.6        9.8       8.2       7.3        7.7
Agriculture                     36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4          4.3        4.9      -1.2       5.3       2.5
Industry                        20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2         17.4       15.3      13.5       9.1       10.0
Services                        43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3          8.1        7.7       7.6       6.2       7.0
Consumption                     85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1          6.7        7.8       7.1       4.8        6.1
Gross ir,vestment               11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8         23.6       11.2      14.6       9.2       8.8
Exports of GNFS                  3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6         29.3       25.4      16.1      10.9       10.5
Imports of GCFS                 12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9         20.2       15.8      17.0       7.2       8.4
Gross national savings /b        8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7      -        -         17.2       14.6       -         -          -
As 2 of GDP
1960      1970      1975       1980        Labor Force in 1980         Millions    (
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                          Agriculture                 4.7      32.2
Current revenues                        18.5       17.8      17.9       19.9          Industry                    3.9      27.1
Current expenditures                    14.3       13.1      15.4       15.6          Services                    5.1      35.5
Current surplus                          4.2        4.7       2.5        4.3          Unemployed                  0.7       5.2
Capital expenditure                      3.4        6.4       6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                        ...       .1.0       1.3        1.0              Total Labor Force      14.5     100.0
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INOTCATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (2)                               8.7              9.0             7.9              7.5             8.0
Annual GNP per captta growth rate (2)                    5.9              6.9              5.2             5.9             6.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (1)               14.2              9.6             12.3/c           7.7
ICOR                                                     1.9             2.7              5.4              4.7             4.4
Marginal savings rats                                    0.3              0.3             0.3              -
ITport elasticity                                        2.2              1.6             2.0              1.0             1.1
/a Preliminary.
/b  Including net transfers.
/c 1975-79.
F.ast Asia and Pacific Regional Office
September 1981



43                                                     ANNEX T
Page 5 of 5
P pu1ation        38,445 (mid-1980 thousands)
GDP per capita:  US$ 1,516 (1980)
KOP.EA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
lIdicator                                                      Actual                                     Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a    1981    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,487  22,496    27,114  55,074 121,068
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.          882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,212    20,846  43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services         2,180   7,991  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,163  28,638    32,848  59,815 120,745
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.        1,804   6,670   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,972    24,508  45,557  95,014
lfet transfers                          178      225     345      222      467     439      454        495      668      893
Current account balance                -623  -1         -307        8  -1,060  -4,236  -5              415  -4,072  +1 235
(8 oE CNP3                            (-4.2)  (-9.2)  (-T.1) (+0.O2)  (-2.2)  (-7.1   (-9.9)    (-8.2)  (-3.2)  (+0.1)
Direct investment                        66       53       75      73       61       16      -7         30      115      231
?MT loans (net)                         242   1,303   1,257   1,464   2,702   2,934   1,694          3,280   3,633   5,819
Official                              147     486      663      594      663     853      864      1,108      706      708
Private                                95     817      594      870   2,039   2,081       831      2,173   2,927   5,111
Other capital                           191   1,111      532       -1       -1   2,291   4,862       2,479   1,682  -4,628
Change in reserves                      -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898    -863           -843  -1,358   2,657
International reserves                  610     797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3 112   3,975          4.818   9 370  19,545
Reserves as months imports              3.4      1.2     2.4      2.7      1.8      1.5     1.7        1.7      1.8      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                         -       -        -        -        -       -        -
Concessional loans                    123     123      238      163      184     193      138
DAC                                 122     108      226      132      167     173      121
OPEC                                  -       -        -       21       13      20       17
IDA                                   1      14       10        9        3       -        -
Other                                -3        1       2        1        -       -        -
Eon-concessional loans                317   1.580   1,579   2,091   3,756   4,496   3 306
Official export credits              18     151      132      262      2;9     340      6T
IBRD                                  7     189      286      190     321      476      248
Other multilateral                    5      88       85       86       88      91       90
Private                             287   1,151   1,078   1,553   3,127   3,639   2,353
Medlum- and Long-Ter Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                         1,797   6,082   7,377   9,160  12,461  15,068  16,462
Official                            613   2,780   3,482   4,244   5,139   5,790   6,674
Private                          1,184   3,302   3,896   4,916   7,322   9,278   9,788
Undisburaed                           902   1,628   3,459   4,793   4,295   5,342   5,999
Debt Service on MILT Loans
Total service payments                268      732     987   1,288   1,933   2,731   3,192
Interest                            70     332      427      498     695      976   1,442
Payments as X exports                20.5    12.6    10.6    10.1    11.6    14.3    14.2
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           ...   2,409   3,045   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047
Interest payments                     ...      ...     ...      152      236     377      907
Interest as 2 exports                 ...      ...     ...      1.2      1.4     1.9      4.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (Z)
Official                              4.5      7.9     7.1      7.9      7.4     7.6       ...
Private                               7.1      9.3     6.3      8.4      9.7    11.5       ...
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                             28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    17.1         ...
Private                              10.9      5.7     8.7      8.8      9.3     8.9      ...
As X of debt outstanding
at and of most recent
year (1980)
#aturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                           63.6
Maturities due within 10 years                          110.1
intereat structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                          11.0
Ia Preliminary
&ast Asia sd Pacific Regional Office
September 1981



- 44 -AEX 11
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                               Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                (less cancellations)
Number         Year         Borrower             Purpose                         Bank     TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-nine loans and eight credits fully disbursed                            1,221.52  40.0  106.81
1096          1975    Republic of Korea       Education III                      22.5                         0.11
1203          1976    Republic of Korea       Highways III                        90.0                        2.02
1319          1976    ADC                      Irrigation                         29.0                       15.83
1364          1977    ADC                      Irrigation                        95.0                        45.89
1401          1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                           67.0                       32.90
1474          1977    Republic of Korea       Vocational Training                 23.0                        5.04
1503          1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                        29.35
1507          1978    SMIB II                 Dev. Finance Co.                   55.0                         0.07
1530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructue II             95.0                       37.29
1542          1978    Republic of Korea       Railway VI                        120.0                         1.40
1574          1978    KDB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                         1.44
1635          1978    KLTCB                   Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                         4.93
1640          1978    Republic of Korea       Highways IV                       143.0                        94.84
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju Multipurpose              125.0                       78.39
1676          1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology             29.0                        14.89
1749          1979    SMIB III                Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                         7.63
1758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju Regional           65.0                        59.83
1774          1979    Republic of Korea       Population I                       30.0                        30.00
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                115.0                      114.48
1800          1980    Republic of Korea       Education V                       100.0                        98.59
1829          1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                    30.0                       23.29
1836          1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                        94.0                        61.56
1851          1980    AFDC                    Agriculture II                     50.0                        41.87
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                        76.84
1933          1981    KDB IV                   Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                       83.82
1974          1981    Republic of Korea       Third Agriculture Credit            50.0                       50.00
1980          1981    Republic of Korea        Nat. Urban Land & Housing          90.0                       90.00
2004          1981    SMIB IV                  Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                       60.00
Total                                                           3,295.02  40.0  106.81   1,162.30
of which has been repaid                                        236.42   -        2.79
Total now outstanding                                           3,058.60  40.0  104.02
Amount sold                        8.83
of which has been repaid         8.17                             0.66   -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                3,057.94  40.0  104.02
Total undisbursed                                               1,162.30   -        -       1,162.30



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                          Amount ($ million)
Year      Obligor                Types of Business             Loan      it  Total
1968   KDFC                       Development Financing           -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.             Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                       Development Financing           -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                       Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                       Development Financing           -      0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                       Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                       Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1980   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                           -      0.8    0.8
1980   KDFC                       Development Financing           -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal       Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
Total gross commitment                                 106.4   27.3  133.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   65.1    3.7   68.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                       41.3   23.6   64.9
TOTAL undisbursed                                        4.2      .5    4.7
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. Con-
struction work is progressing on two of the originally scheduled six major
civil works contracts with the first contract nearly completed. The project
area has been reduced to 7,100 ha from 12,685 as a result of deleting 2,300
ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation of construction
costs due to inflation have become uneconomic. The award of contracts for
the next two areas was made in May 1981. Due to the escalation of costs and
inadequate local project budget allocations to compensate for the increase,
the project is currently about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of up-
lands. Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam
has been completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction, awarded
in December 1977, is on schedule and the dam will be completed in 1981.
Other parts of the project have fallen behind schedule due to a sharp esca--
lation of costs and insufficient budget allocations to meet the increases.
It is now expected that in addition to the estuary dam, eight of the ten
subprojects will be completed by the end of 1984. Tidal reclamation is
scheduled to start in 1983 and would be completed in 1986, about 2-1/2 years
behind schedule; the Bank is discussing with the Government measures to
accelerate this schedule.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 4 7NNBX -.A
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I. $36.0 Milliooi
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: 1 arch 29 1978;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements
for 10,800 ha including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, and conversion of
1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land. Construction was to have been
carried out under seven civil works contracts and three were awarded in late
1979. Award of the fourth contract was made in July 1981. The project is
currently about two years behind schedule due to local budget allocations
which were insufficient to meet the sharply increased cost escalation.
Award of the remaining three constracts depends upon funding availability
and a review of their economic justification.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 46 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The river training and rural telephones components were completed
on schedule in 1979 and the water supply component was completed in 1980.
Design work on the minor irrigation component is complete. The total area
of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,192 ha. Contracts
have been awarded for all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date:  September 30, 1984:
The project would support investments in Korea's agroprocessing
subsector. Enterprises engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservations of fruits, vegetables, meat and
fisheries products, oil and extraction, processing of grain. based foods, raw
silk spinning, and production of fruit juice based beverages, dairy prodlicts,
and animal feeds would be the main subborrowers.  The project will benefit
the farmers through widening their market opportunities, provide ircreased
supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed food throughout the
year to consu-mers, and create about 5,000 additional jobs. The project
would also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC). Sublending is progressing well
and loan disbursements have commenced.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase of (a) producZion of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
page 5 of 12 pages
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, on-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-
scale agro-processing and backyard livestock. The project was declared
effective in August 1981 and implementation is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and
provide 460 MW of peaking capacity for Korea-s power system. The principal
features of the project are a 90 m high concrete darn across the South Han
River, a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated
transmission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the
main dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway,
protective works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing
embankment of a cement plant and other miscellaneous.works; implementation
of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project;
and consulting services. The major civil works contract was awarded in
December 1979 and progress to date is good, and detailed planning is
underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by SMIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000. Funds have been entirely committed and final disbursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Progress is good.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea
Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans. Progress is good and only about 6% of funds are
still to be disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After initial delays in completing final specifications and
bidding documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the
project is progressing. Bids have been received and are being evaluated for
a major proportion of the equipment. The training program is also under
way. Recently some shortage of counterpart funds has affected the project
and proposed institutional changes have given rise to concern; these
matters are under discussion with the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. Progress is
good.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank                 4
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure.  Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities. Sublending is progressing well and loan disbursements have
commenced.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two years. In
order to encourage increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial
borrowings by KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature,
which would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The
project incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which
would be implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform
of the financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB over the next two years. In
order to encourage a reduction in KDB's reliance on long-term official
borrowings, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which
would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which would be
implemented by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by SMIB over the next two years.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by
SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically produced
capital goods (estimated at 60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
support the Government's policy of increasing the productivity of Korea's
small- and medium-scale industrial sector which plays a vital role in
providing employment opportunities and in assisting the country's export
effort. It also initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension
services for the SMI sector.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal nortality,
particularly in rural areas. It is estimated that about 10 million people
would be provided primary health care services under the project. Progress
is being made on a number of fronts. Training to convert unipurpose into
multipurpose workers is going on, the development of curricula for midwifery
training is advancing, workshops have been conducted and coordinators
appointed. Designs for the civil works are being prepared. Although some
delays in training have occurred, this has been due to budget constraints
rather than to managerial problems. The budget allocations made by the
Government for 1980 and 1981 correspond to only about 10% of the amounts
required. This implies a delay of at least one year in project execution.
The Government has indicated that it plans to compensate for the shortfall in
1982. Project management is coping with this situation well and is trying to
make do with the funds available. Loan disbursements have not yet commenced.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. Six VTIs are now in operation.
About 80% of equipment has been awarded and about 60% delivered. All experts
are in post and the fellowship program has been completed. Management
performance has also improved.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineerirng,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve auality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date:  February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation on the Second Gwangju Regional Project is underway
satisfactorily. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects.
Civil works contracts for two subprojects (Mogpo Water Supply and Gwangju
Tndustrial Estate Access Road) were awarded in December 1979 and
construction works are on schedule. Contract awards for two subprojects
were made in October 1980 and another seven in December. Detailed designs
for the remaining subprojects have also been completed but bid award has
been postponed to 1981 primarily due to budgetary problems. Progress on
implementation of the aquaculture development program has been slow due to
staffing changes in the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
(NFFC). Preparation of Terms of Reference for various studies under the
Technical Assistance Program are underway. On the whole, project
implementation is satisfactory, though rapid escalation in construction
costs in Korea is expected to cause a cost overrun of about 37%.
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing fate: December 31, 1984
The objectives of the project are to provide housing for low-
income families and to further develop the capabilities of the major public
institutions serving the housing sector, namely KLDC and KNHC. These
objectives are to be pursued in the context of an ongoing dialogue on
housing policy issues between the Bank and the Korean Government which will
be intensified through the technical assistance and housing sector study to
be financed from this loan. The project includes development of about
380 ha of urban residential land in ten medium-sized cities including
off-site infrastructure, construction of about 8,500 housing units for
low-income households, community and commercial facilities and technical
assistance covering staff training, professional services, project
preparation, studies and monitoring and evaluation.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants were completed in 1980 and a contract for
detailed engineering has been negotiated. Disbursements are nearing
completion. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter wharf No.
5 were let in 1979, following delay in appointing the consultants for final
engineering. Estimated costs have increased to $161 million ($98 foreign
exchange) compared with the appraisal estimate of $112 ($70 foreign
exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting from January 1,
1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. Studies
of the feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 have been carried
out and the transport sector studies are under way.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
includirng paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 kn; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the 1Minlstry of Construction. A contract for the
study was signed and work started in September 1979. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and the remaining roads in September 1979.
Costs have escalated sharply due to inflation, and due to budgetary
constraint, construction work is proceeding about one year behind the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project focuses on the goals set jointly with the Government
on the transport sector, namely to increase the capacity of the transport
system in the most-economically efficient way and to develop and strengthen
the institutions dealing with the transport sector. The main component of
the project aims at: (a) initiating the institutional changes necessary to
gradually transform the Korean National Railroad (KNR) into a public
corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity required to meet forecast
traffic; and (c) reducing operating and maintenance costs. The loan will
finance rails, track maintenance equipment, breakdown cranes, passenger
cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance and training.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in the development
program of the Korea Electric Company (KECO) to meet the load growth up to
1986. The project would provide for the installation of two 500 MW
coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; coal handling and
storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system and storage area, a fuel
unloading dock for ships up to 100,000 DWT displacement; a pumping station
and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh water to the station; and a 160 km
double circuit, 345 KV transmission line between the power station and
Seoul, and related terminal substations and management consulting services.
In September 1979, contracts for the main equipment which is not being
financed by the Bank were signed and call for bids for 12 equipment packages
will be made in mid-April. Power rates have been increased periodically and
KECO has been able to meet its 9% rate of return objective.



- 56 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1 page
KOREA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Government Presentation to the Bank: February 1980
(b) Preappraisal Mission: November/December 1980
(c) Appraisal Mission: March/April 1981
(d) Completion of Negotiations: October 16, 1981
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: March 19, 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to June 30, 1982 or other agreed date, the Bank would review
the Government's progress in implementing the structural adjustment program as
set forth in its Letter of Development Policy.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Disbursement of the second tranche ($100 million) of the proposed
loan would be contingent on satisfactory progress in implementing
the structural adjustment program as set forth in the Government½s
Letter of Development Policy.
(b) Implementation of the agreements on studies/task forces relating
to energy pricing, energy audit and workshops, automobile industry,
heavy machinery industry, the industrial incentive system, the
project evaluation system, and rural income support restructuring.
(c) Implementation of agreements relating to energy prices, automobile
policy, investments in LNG and petrochemical complex, the Korean
EXIM bank, additional tax measures and agricultural price subsidies.



ANNEX IV
57 -               Page I of 11 pages
September 23, 1981
Mr. A.W. Clausen
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Letter of Development Policy
Dear Mr. Clausen:
1.        This letter is to request a loan in support of a program of
structural adjustment of the Korean economy.
Background
2.        For the second time in less than a decade our country has been
faced with a sharp increase in the cost of its oil imports which account for
the bulk of total energy consumption. By 1977 Korea had adjusted rather
successfully to the first oil shock through a continued high rate of expan-
sion of exports, increased external borrowing and a spectacular growth in
overseas construction contracts. Among the policy instruments which contri-
buted to Korea's success in very rapidly overcoming the adverse effects of
the increased oil payments were: (a) exchange rate adjustment in 1974;
(b) continued emphasis on export diversification in products as well as
markets; (c) restraint in real wages; and (d) an increase in public sector
savings. By 1977 the current account was almost in balance, the domestic
inflation rate had come down to less than 10% and the debt service ratio
remained in the comfortable range of 10-11%.
3.        However, the very success of the Government policies in stimulating
exports and growth (and consequently investment and consumption) began in
1978 to strain the economy. The volume of exports and level of real fixed
investment doubled between 1975 and 1978 ana the recovery of the terms of
trade (reflecting in part the decline in the real price of oil, as compared
to the peak of 1974-75) all served to stimulate economic activity. The
rapid growth in domestic demand understandably created bottlenecks in the
economy and fueled inflationary pressures. In addition, the sharp growth in
investment was focussed on heavy industry, in line with Korea's desire to
deepen its industrial structure and to gradually reduce reliance on labor
intensive manufactured goods. In retrospect, however, the investment in
some key areas was excessive. Due to the long gestation period of the
projects, and increases in the already high debt equity ratios, many of the
firms involved became vulnerable to demand fluctuations.
4.        At the same time, labor markets witnessed a major transformation.
Nonagricultural employment expanded by 30% between 1975 and 1978 and employ-
ment in the construction sector increased by 55% during 1977 and 1978.



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 11 pages
Reflecting the tightening of the labor mark, money wages in manufacturing
increased 33% per annum during 1977-78, and real wages clearly outstripped
the growth in productivity. There was a major increase in housing costs
due to constraints on the stupply of housing, which could not keep pace with
the fast accelerating - partly speculative - demand. The shifts in the
pattern of consumption in response to rapidly growing incomes, and the
bottlenecks in the supply of agricultural products such as meat and
vegetables put further pressures on consumer prices. The sharp rise in
Korea's price level, compared with major trading partners, in turn eroded
export competitiveness, and export volume was showing signs of stagnating
by the end of 1978.
5.        The impact of these developments was reflected in a current
account deficit of $4.2 billion in 1979 and an acceleration of inflationary
pressures. In the second half of 1978 and first half of 1979, the Govern--
ment instituted a number of measures to stabilize, and to restructure the
economy, especially through the opening up of the economy to greater
internati-onal competition by the liberalization of imports. Special stress
was placed on tight monetary and fiscal policies while at the same time the
prices of a large number of commodities were decontrolled.
6.        Unfortunately, however, the effect of these initiatives was
swamped by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price hikes in 1979 and
1980 raised Korea's oil import bill from about $2.2 billion in 1978 to
$5.7 billion in 1980 - an increase equal to nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. This
period was also marked by political uncertainty accompanying the change in
government. On top of these developments, the weather turned out to the
unfavorable; the unusually low temperatures in the summer and autumn of 1980
led to a drop in agricultural output of about 20%. The deflationary effects
of these developments on the economy were exacerbated by the effects of
tight financial policies during 1979-80, and by the weakened competitive
position of exports due partly to a rigid exchange rate which was corrected
only in early 1980.
Adjustment Process
7.        Faced with a worsening of the economic situation which was already
difficult in 1979, the Korean economy has made a series of important
adjustments. The current account balance of payments deficit in 1981 is
expected to total $5.5 billion, notwithstanding a sharp increase in oil
imports, much higher interest payments and grain imports substantially above
the normal level.  Excluding the special rice imports, the current account
deficit should amount to 7% of GNP, substantially below the comparable
figure for 1979. After stagnating in 1979, Korean export volume grew by 11%
in 1980 and is expected to show further improvement during 1981 against the
background of very slow growth in world trade.
8.        The revival of exports and improvement in the balance of payments
have been the result of Government policies aimed at restoring the
competitiveness of exports, slowing down the growth in money wages,



_ 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 11 pages
reducing the rate of domestic investment and limiting domestic credit
creation. The won was devalued vis-a-vis the US dollar by 28% between
January 1980 and March 1981 and real wages fell by 5% in 1980. Gross real
fixed investment declined by 15% between 1979 and 1980 and the investment
rate is expected to stabilize at around 31%.  The consolidation efforts
have meant, however, that taking 1980 and 1981 together, GNP growth will be
negligible, and consumption per capita will be down. Reflecting adjustments
to higher oil prices and devaluation, the inflation rate accelerated to 28%
in 1980.
9.        But by and large, we consider that the short-term situation is
now under control. The political situation has stabilized following the
recent elections and the Government now wishes to address the medium and
longer term issues and institute measures which will lead to further
structural changes which we believe are essential. At this stage of the
country's development there are many areas in which changes in policy are
desirable. We summarize below the Government-s medium-term objectives, but
you will be aware that some of the topics and policy areas are already under
discussion with the Bank in connection with other loan operations. The
range of measures discussed here covers those which are associated with the
structural adjustment loan.
10.       The principal aim of our medium-term strategy is to restore the
growth momentum of the economy while keeping the balance of payments
manageable, reducing the rate of inflation and continuing to seek social
equity. As medium term target we look to a real rate of growth of GNP of
7-8% per annum.
11.       With a view to achieving a manageable balance of payments, our
objective, as reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan, is to
reduce the current account deficit to less than US$4 billion by 1986. This
will mean that the deficit would fall to about 3% of GNP by 1986. We
believe that the program to be supported by the structural adjustment loan
will contribute to the attainment of this objective.
12.       A viable external balance will require action on many fronts.
Korea remains committed to an outward looking development strategy.  We will
aim for an annual rate of expansion of exports of 10-12% per annum depending
on the international outlook, but in any event substantially higher than
the rate of growth of GNP. With 10-12% annual real growth in exports, the
debt service ratio could be maintained in the range of 12-13%. A key policy
objective will be to reduce the domestic inflation rate to below 10% by
1986. The Government also aims to improve productivity and raise the
quality of commodities produced by fostering more competiton. The exchange
rate will be adjusted as required with a view to maintaining international
competitiveness.  Selective credit support for exports of capital goods will
also be necessary. While the domestic market for capital goods is expanding,
the unutilized capacity in machinery industries is so substantial that it
can be eliminated only by vigorous export promotion. Steps to encourage
foreign investment, dismantle obstacles to competition and expand the supply



ANNEX I.V
Page 4 of 11 pages
of technology and skilled manapower wi;llt all fLorm part of the strategy.
Last, but not least, reliev:i-g the bLirden of energy imports will be a ma lor
objective of balance of psvymen,ts man .gej'-.ent (see below, para. 14).
13.        The restoration *3 i fa    anle .edium-terri external balance will
requi re complementary s:-.e   -           the Taernal balance of the economy.
In particular, fiscal and montary policies will have to aim at increasing
domestic savings through no.--nfiLi K.    means  so that investment can
continue at a high le bol, but .mit-h much less reliance on foreign inflows.
To this end, the Government  L.ntends i:o follow a policy that will aim for
positive real interest rates. A natl'onal savings ratio of 30% of GNP,
supported by foreign capi tal infowo of 3%". of GNP, would permit an invest-
ment ratio of 33%.  However, the rate of: growth of investment will be lower
than in the past so that great care will be needed to ensure that investments
are well chosen, properly planned and appraised. There will be little or no
scope within the investment program for low priority projects given the need
to promote energy creation and conservi-ng investments, the continued
requirements for industrial exparnson, and pressing need for social invest-
ments. The public sector share of svirngs w7ill need to increase to about
8% of GNP from its present level of 6q to contribute more to domestic
savings.  This will require additional resource mobilization efforts, as
current expenditures grow; the government plans ca'Ll for raising the tax/
GNP ratio to 22% by 198d compared with 18% in 1981.  A reduction in sub-
sidies will also play a role (partly in support of energy policy objectives)
and the changes contemplated in agricu:.tural support policies will work in
the same direction.
14.        A principal area in wiilh slructural adjustment is needed is
energy. Energy intensity oF output in Korea is high compared to other
countries at a similar level of development. Also our dependence on
imported energy, chiefly oil, is not only high but has grown rapidly over
the past two decades.   in 1970! oil 111ports accounted for 50% of total
energy consumption and constituted 6% of the value of total imports.  In
1980, energy imports were abou t two-thirds gf energy consumption and oil
imports had risen to 27% of total imports, With limited hydroelectric
potential, no known resources of petroleum and poor quality of domestic
coal, Korea has inevitably to rely on energy imports for it economic
development. But with the prospect of a persistent worldwide shortage of
energy resources, especially oil, and rising relative prices over the next
decade, it has become imper2tive for KCorea (a, to reduce the energy inten-
sity of output; (b) to contain the growing dependence on energy imports; and
(c) to diversify the sources of entergy imports. According to the energy
sector plan in our Fift'h :ive-Vear Plan, our intertion is to limit the
growth in energy consmwpt-io. uo l'ess tflan 7% per yrear during 1980-91 com-
pared with a GNP growth of 7f8%s no  annumD  the elasticity of energy use to
GNP will thus be around 0.9 compa-re- to 1.1 duiring 1974-80. While we do not
foresee the possibility, bv 1990: of reducing the relative dependence oln
energy imports to less than the presenz" level, we plan. to cut back the rate
of growth of oil imoorts for energy use to 3% p.a. over the next decade



- 61 -            ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 11 pages
(compared to over 10% p.a. during 1970-79). We hope to achieve this by
rapidly increasing the use of alternative fuels, i.e., bituminous coal,
LPG, LNG; and nuclear energy. By 1Q91 oil imports should account for about
41% of total energy consumption compared to 61% in 1979. But because we
expect the real prices of primary energy sources to increase, perhaps by as
much as 3% per year, the total cost of energy imports will grow by 10-11%
without taking inflation into account. Thus, even with real exports growing
at 12% p.a., the share of energy imports in the total will drop by very
little in the near future. Being committed to making structural adjustment
in the energy field, the Government intends to explore all avenues to reduce
energy use per unit of output and to slow down the growth in energy imports.
Examination of the pattern of future output, of the role of automobiles, and
of the potential for energy conservation will be important elements in
drawing up a comprehensive and long-range plan of energy production and use.
Both pricing policies and sectoral planning will provide crucial vehicles
for attaining Government objectives in this area.
15.       A beginning has been made with a variety of measures.  The most
basic decision was to pass on to consumers the successive increases in world
oil prices, a policy we plan to continue. Security of supplies, diversi-
fication of energy forms and sources, and the institution of an active
program of demand management have become major objectives. The use of oil
was eliminated from all planned electric power plants. An Energy Research
Institute was established. A rational Energy Use Law mandating a broad
program for increasing efficiency in energy use has been enacted. Energy
use surveys have been conducted and a good data base is being created.
Technical assistance and special credits have been provided for conservation
and energy-saving activities. These actions have started to slow the growth
of energy use, but more will be needed before the unusually high energy
intensity of the economy can he reduced to more acceptable levels.
16.       Further actions to be taken immediately will be a series of price
adjustments. While, as noted above, energy product prices have generally
risen in line with world prices, the price structure for different forms of
energy requires revision, in order to reflect long-run energy availabilities
and costs. The immediate need is to raise the prices of domestically
produced coal and diesel fuel.  For coal, the objectives should be to
recapture a better balance between coal and oil products, thereby reducing
the growing demand for coal (which has led to growing imports) as well as
curbing household energy demand in general.  For diesel oil as with coal,
social considerations have led to an erosion of its price in relation to
competing fuels (gasoline and light fuel oil). This has led to distortions
in the energy price structure and the Government intends to develop
appropriate long-term pricing policies for these fuels.
17.       The intention of the planned price increases is to put energy
users under stronger pressure to conserve, but this will be effective only
if they are able to adapt their energy-use systems. For this the Government
intends to provide technical assistance and strengthen its support
activities. It will also review the tax and other incentives to see if they



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 11 pages
are adequate. The long-term adjustments required will be more fundamental.
Extensive investments will be needed to achieve energy conservation in all
fields of activity. The pattern of future industrial output will need to
be reviewed from the point of view of energy usage, and the structure of
relative prices adopted. Perhaps the most profound impact will derive from
the pattern of production and use of automobiles.  Since decisions concerning
the size of the automobile industry, and the disposal of its output will
have large consequences for the growth of energy consumption, the Government
intends to review policy and investment decisions in this industry with
particular care.
18.       Another major task of structural adjustment relates to industrial
policy. New investment is changing the nature of Korean industry towards
greater specialization in more technologically advanced industries. This
shift is essential to the future development of the economy. It also
reflects the fact that the industries which were the basis for the success-
ful export growth of earlier years face stiffer competition in world markets.
Continued economic growth must be achieved through a deepening of the
industrial structure and improvements in productivity. The first steps in
the further evolution of industry involved an emphasis on machinery and
electronics. However, investment in these industries took place at a
faster pace than envisaged and there is a need to rationalize the situation
and reduce excess capacity.
19.       The main strands of industrial policy now being developed are
based on the premise that government direction and control will be less
important in the future. The government will work towards more devolution
of investment decision making to individual businesses, retaining only its
right to influence large scale strategic industrial projects. It will
review the incentive system, promote more competitive conditions, apply
import liberalization to domestically produced products and implement the
decisions to reduce the use of directed credit and allow more autonomy to
financial institutions. The scope of preferential credit directed through
National Investment Fund will be reduced and it will be made more clearly
focused on helping the "infant" industries that satisfy the criteria to be
developed by the Economic Planning Board.
20.       Specifically, the Government has proceeded with the restructuring
of six industries: automobiles, heavy machinery, heavy electrical, diesel
engines, telephone equipment and copper smelting. Mergers have been
accomplished between the two units that were operating in copper smelting
and the three units manufacturing heavy electrical equipment. In marine
diesel engines and telephone switching equipment the output of different
product lines has been rationalized. Nevertheless, substantial unutilized
capacity exists in most of the restructured industries and we plan to
examine their situation with a view to determining appropriate measures in
support of the companies efforts, particularly in the direction of expanded
export markets. Complementary measures affecting all industries have also
been implemented. Companies hve been required to improve debt-equity ratios,



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 11 pages
if necessary by selling surplus land to dispose of subsidiaries unrelate
to principal operations and to use the proceeds to reduce indebtedness to
the banking system.
21.       The Government has also liberalized its policies covering fo-
investment in industry.  New guidelines have been adopted that will enco-u;
foreign private investment in a wide variety of industrial activities,
especially those which will promote exports and those which will facilitate
the introduction of a high level of technology into industry. Foreign
investment in Korean industry will also be permitted through the establish-
ment of international investment trusts.
22.       Industrial restructuring will be pursued with the main intent',
of improving industrial efficiency. For this purpose, the Government is
planning to rationalize the present industrial incentive system in accordaace
with Presidential directions to set up a committee which will undertake a
comprehensive reform of the system. We also intend to strengthen the project
appraisal capacity in Government agencies and key financial institutions
for the evaluation of major projects.
23.       The unifying theme behind the Government's economic policies will
be the need to adjust the medium-term balance of payments position, while
restoring the growth of the economy. The test will be whether the mix of
policies pursued will collectively lead to a higher rate of export earnings
and a lower rate of import growth. There is no unique set of policies t'hat
can assure achievement of these ends. The specifics of our action program
for structural adjustment over the next 12 months are noted in the
attachment to this letter. We intend to continue our consultation with you
with respect to these measures in dealing with the evolving situation.
Sincerely yours,
[signed]
Shin, Byong Hyun
Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Economic Plarnu,f



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 11 pages
Program of Actions for Structural Adjustment
1.        In line with the medium-term objectives outlined in the letter
above, the Government intends to take the following specific actions:
Energy Efficiency
2.        The Government will. continue its policy of passing on to consumers
the full increases in all energy costs. Subject to findings of further
studies on the subject, our target is to substantially reduce by 1986, the
gap between diesel prices and gasoline prices as well as largely eliminate
that between domestic and imported coal prices. In pursuance of this
objective, we intend in 1982 to continue the policy adopted earlier this
year of increasing diesel prices significantly faster than gasoline prices
and domestic coal prices faster than imported coal prices. With regard
to coal prices we wish to inform you that we revised consumer prices by
about 16% on August 14, 1981. A Task Force shall be established to further
develop the pricing principles for energy and to recommend price changes
for coal, petroleum products and electricity.
3.        For the appraisal of major investments with high energy
consumption the Government will use an appropriate shadow price for energy
inputs. A preliminary set of principles underlying the energy shadow prices
to be used in such appraisals has been agreed with the Bank, and the issue
shall be further reviewed with the Task Force on project evaluation.
4.        During 1981, the Government will identify the six to eight most
energy-intensive manufacturing industries, the number of firms in each, and
the total amount of energy consumed in each. It will then arrange for the
conduct of in-depth energy audits in at least one leading plant in each of
those industries so identified, using experienced technical assistance
where appropriate. The end-result will be the formulation of a specific
action program for energy saving in each plant. The action programs will
be made available to the Bank for review by September 30, 1982.
5.        The Government will prepare programs by December 31, 1981 for
implementation during January-September 1982 for:
(a) A workshop designed to strengthen the program of energy saving in
residential and commercial buildings;
(b) One or more training workshops to increase the capability of
KEMCO and private companies to conduct industrial energy audits,
using short-term technical assistance, and including a demonstra-
tion program of 3-5 practice audits in cooperation with foreign
experts; and



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 11 pages
(c) A series of foreign visits by KEMCO and plant-level engineers to
establishments abroad that have achieved large energy savings.
Automobiles
6.        The Government will defer further actions to promote expansion of
the automobile industry pending completion (and review with the Bank) of
(a) a task force study reviewing export market prospects, and (b) a study
of the consequences of a rapid expansion of the automobile population on
energy imports, urban pollution, and urban congestion.
7.        Pending completion of the above studies, if the Government, for
the purpose of utilizing idle capacity in the automobile industry, wishes
to reduce taxes or levies on automobiles, or to provide increased access to
consumer finance for the purchase of automobiles, it will discuss the
proposed measures with the Bank prior to their implementation.
8.        The Government will establish a Task Force to prepare a plan for
the promotion of the automobile parts industry, particularly for exports;
this plan will include measures to provide technical assistance, investment
incentives and overseas market information to the manufacturers of
automobile parts.
Petroleum Complex and LNG Investments
9.        In the area of petrochemicals, the Government is not planning to
undertake any major expansion during the next three years. If any major
expansion is to be undertaken within the next five years, the Government
will give the Bank an opportunity to review the investment plans and
feasibility studies.
10.       The Government is well advanced with plans for major investments
for the import of LNG for both power generation and town-gas distribution.
The Government has reviewed with the Bank the feasibility studies and is
soliciting the Bank's advice on effective implementation of the project.
Heavy Machinery Sector
11.       In spite of the realignment measures taken by the Government,
fundamental problems of excessive and misdirected investment remain in the
heavy machinery sector./l The Government will withhold financial or other
support for investments in this sector, other than those needed for
completion of ongoing projects or for balancing production, pending completion
/1 Defined to include: (a) general plant equipment; (b) power plant
equipment; (c) heavy electrical equipment; (d) marine diesel engines;
(e) heavy industrial equipment; and (f) related components.



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 11 pages
by a Task Force and review with the Bank of an in-depth study of the problems
of the sector. Such a study will include recommendations regarding possible
Government measures for rationalization of existing capacity, for the
promotion of exports, and for strengthening the engineering capacity in the
sector.
Investment Efficiency
12.       The Government will set up a unit in EPB to make a review of the
existing system of industrial incentives and import protection through
tariff and nontariff barriers, and on a continuing basis, advise on
necessary changes in the incentive system.
13.       The Government has reached agreement with the Bank on a program
for strengthening the project appraisal capacity in EPB and in operating
ministries and agencies including the development of criteria for selection
and evaluation of projects by the Government and working out the macro-
economic implications of projects approved and supported by the Government.
Export Incentives
14.       The Government has presented to the Bank a five-year program for
the lending operations of the Korean Exim-Bank which represents a substan-
tial expansion of their program to meet the medium- and long-term credit
needs for machinery exports.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
15.       In accordance with our objectives of increasing the tax/GNP ratio
to 22% by 1986, Government budget proposals for 1982 include new tax
measures aimed at increasing the tax/GNP ratio, and we expect that in 1982
this ratio will rise by at least 0.5 percentage point.
16.       The Government's medium-term objective is to phase out the
operating subsidies to the Grain Management Fund and Fertilizer Fund by
1986.  In accordance with these objectives, we intend during 1982 to
continue the policy of reducing substantially the ratio between the
Government buying and selling prices for these commodities.
17.       The Government will establish a Task Force to review the effects
of proposed programs of elimination of subsidies on agricultural production,
rural incomes, and food imports; and to prepare proposals for investments
in rural areas and other policy reforms in order to minimize the adverse
effects of subsidy elimination on rural incomes.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 11 pages
Staffing, Terms of Reference and Initial Reports
18.        Studies/task forces/units with staffing and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank will be established by December 31, 1981 and their
initial reports will be prepared by September 30, 1982.



KOREA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Use of IF Resources
(in mmilions f   Si
Gross Credit Drawings                                                                           Undrawn balance
Compensatory                Regu.ar                                                                       of agreed
and buffer        O1I    stand-bys  Trust fund                  Repay-                 Net credit        stand-by
stock drawings  facility  and EFFs    borrowing  Total /a   ments /b  Charges /c  drawings /d              or EFF /e
1973                                                                                    _
1974                        90.0       20.0                    110.0                    0.2         110.0
1973                       107.3                               107.3                    8.5         107.3              20.0
1976         40.0           55.4        9.0                    104.4        20.0       18.4           84.4
1977                                                                        10.3       20.4         -iO.3
1978                                                                        89.5       19.6         -89.5
1079                                                                        97.4       10.8         -97.4
1930        160.0                     320.0                    480.0        25.0       12.8         455.0             320.0
1981                                  576.0/f                  576.0/f      40.8       78.1
1982                                                                        34.8      104.7
1983                                                                        40.8      104.7
1984                                                                       249.2       97.7
1985                                                                       321.8       71.2
1906                                                                       173.7       43.4
1987                                                                       144.8       22.0
1938928                                                                                 5.2
1o8                                                                         92.85,
.989                                                                         -          -
/a Use of Fund Credit (regular stand-by drawings, EFF drawings, oil facility drawings, compensatory facility drawings; <
and buffer stock draw.ings) plus Trast Fund borrowing.
/b  Repaynents throagh Repurchase and Repayment-s of Trtist Furd borrowing.
7F  Interest on Credit Drawin-s and on Trust Favd bortLuwin'.
7   1  2.
7e  Undrawn balance of stand-by or EFF agreement with statement of remraining period of agreement.
7T  Projected.



V  4~~~~~~~~~~~~    4  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                    B  D 15  3  
G    G    ~ nheo
~~      4444           ~           ~            44eongb
44o          1                         n
on~
C' -
-no ~             ~            FkTWTh  UPY  RJC
Jeonj    ~ ~ ~       ~      ~ ~ MOA                 H
'6 44 E 0
4                                                                       /  ,<       EtA   TIES~~~K,



