 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14826

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 11/23/2015

               Country: Mozambique
             Project ID: P071465                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Transfrontier               Project Costs (US$M):                     36.70               35.03
                         Conservation Areas
                         And Tourism
                         Development Pro
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                     20.00                21.4
      Sector Board:      Environment                 Cofinancing (US$M):                     13.72               13.56

          Cofinanciers: Global Environment           Board Approval Date :                                12/01/2005
                        Fund (GEF), Japan                    Closing Date:             06/30/2013         06/30/2014
                        Ministry of Finance
                        (PHRD grant)
         Sector(s):     General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (35%); Central government administration
                        (33%); Other industry (20%); Sub-national government administration (12%)
         Theme(s):      Environmental policies and institutions (29%); Biodiversity (29%); Rural non-farm income
                        generation (28%); Other environment and natural resources management (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Rasmus Heltberg           J. W. Van Holst        Christopher David         IEGPS1
                          Pellekaan              Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for this Transfrontier Conservation Areas and Tourism
Development Project (TFCATDP) its project development objective (PDO) was "to promote growth in
community-private sector led environmentally and socially sustainable tourism in Transfrontier Conservation Areas
(TFCAs)"

In the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) the PDO was stated as "to achieve growth in community-private sector led
environmentally and socially sustainable tourism in Transfrontier Conservation Areas (TFCAs).

The project was co-financed by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement which had an objective
identical to the PDO in the project's DCA.

On the other hand the project's PAD stated the Global Environment Objective as "to increase the area, connectivity,
and effectiveness of biodiversity conservation in the TFCAs".

For the purpose of assessing the project's achievements this Review will use the objective as stated in the DCA. The
Review will assess the combined results of the activities financed by the DCA and the Global Environment Facility.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No
 c. Components:
 The project had five components. Based on the PAD, the components are described briefly below. The estimated
costs are based on Annex 5 of the PAD (for the appraisal costs) and Annex 1 of the ICR (for the actual costs). All
costs include contingencies.

Component 1 - Strengthening Policy , Legal and Institutional Framework for TFCAs (appraisal cost including
contingencies was US$1.15 million; actual cost US$0.916 million). This component was aimed at strengthening the
enabling environment for TFCAs. It would help create the policy, legal and institutional framework for the Government
of Mozambique (GOM) to implement its strategic choices, namely to improve regional collaboration for management
of transfrontier resources; promote inter-agency collaboration and vertical linkages between central and local
governments; build the capacity of public sector institutions at all levels and communities to manage biodiversity and
natural resources; and to form productive partnerships with the private sector. Community land and natural resource
ownership and user rights would also be addressed.

Component 2 - Integrated District Development Planning (appraisal cost including contingencies was US$0.49
million; actual cost US$0.43 million). This component was divided into two sub-components: (2.1) National Capacity
Building and Stock-Taking; and (2.2) Integrated District Development Planning per se. Sub-component 2.2 was to
follow the following steps: (i) capacity building and initial consultation at provincial, district and local levels; (ii) district
diagnostic, including basic data gathering and consolidation with tourism and conservation overlays produced by other
components; and (iii) production, adoption and diffusion of the District Development Plans (DDPs).

Component 3: Community and Private Sector -Led Tourism Development (appraisal cost including contingencies was
US$12.95 million; actual cost was US$5.21 million). This component was designed to develop the capacity of the
tourism sector. It was implemented through two two sub-components: (3.1) Unlocking Opportunities for Sustainable
Tourism Investment and Growth; and (3.2) community-led conservation and tourism development. Sub-component
3.1 was to support building capacity through national institutions and agencies as well as targeted private sector and
community associations to develop and implement (i) tourism plans in the target TFCAs; (ii) business development
and financing (iii) the collection of tourism statistics and data; (iv) strengthened capacity for licensing, inspection and
grading; and (v) the implementation of the District Tourism Master Plans (DTMPs). Subcomponent 3.2 would provide
support to communities through (i) land demarcation; (ii) a Community Enterprise Fund for organized communities to
either proceed with the creation and management of community reserves in interstitial areas or enter into joint venture
partnerships with private investors for tourism or conservation related investments such as creation of game ranches,
lodges, etc.; and (iii) establishing the participatory and compensation process to improved natural resource
management and land acquisition.

Component 4: Protected Areas Management (appraisal cost was US$16.60 million; actual cost was US$23.73
million). The component was divided into two sub-components: (4.1) Capacity Building and Applied Research; and
(4.2) Biodiversity Conservation in Formal Protected areas. Under Sub-component 4.1 the following activities were
planned, (i) the capacity of the National Directorate for Conservation Areas (DNAC) would be reinforced; and (ii)
survey, inventories, conservation priority setting and applied research would be carried out. Sub-component 4.2.
included: (i) improvement of park design and planning; (ii) increasing the area under protection; (iii) building or
rehabilitating essential infrastructure; (iv) procurement of essential equipment required for management; (v)
deployment and capacity building of staff; (vi) improvement of communication and information technology; (vii)
launching effective law enforcement; (viii) improving the capacity to carry out research, monitoring and evaluation; and
(ix) increasing the PA's revenue generation capacity.

Component 5: Project Management, Communications, and Monitoring and Evaluation (appraisal cost US$4.53
million; actual cost US$7.12 million). This component financed project management costs including procurement,
accounting and monitoring as described by their respective manuals. It would strengthen the capacity of the TFCA
Unit to coordinate the TFCA program, and would support related operating costs. This included recruiting a few
additional long-term staff for the Unit, including TFCA Coordinators based in the field in order to support the shifting of
planning and implementation to the provincial and local level. The component included the implementation of an M&E
system to track and assess project implementation and impacts, and a system for adaptive management based on
this information; and the development and implementation of an information system and a communications strategy to
ensure timely flow of accurate information among the implementing agencies, and to increase awareness and
understanding about ecosystem management and TFCAs nationally, regionally and worldwide.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs. The project's estimated total cost including contingencies was US$36.7 million but total actual cost
was US$37.03 million.

Financing: At appraisal the IDA Credit was US$ 20.00 million but the actual IDA disbursements were US$20.60
million. At appraisal Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant provided US$10.00 million although only US$9.87
million were disbursed. The Japan PHRD provided the equivalent of US$3.72 million but only US$3.69 million were
used. At appraisal parallel financing for management of targeted protected areas was also provided to the
Government by Peace Park Foundation (PPF) and the African Wildlife Foundation (AWF) in the amount of US$ 2.2
million and the ICR stated that this was used by the project.

Borrower Contribution : The Government's contribution at appraisal was expected to be US$0.78 million and in the
event the Government matched this commitment

Dates: The project was formally restructured four times, namely in March 2009 (reallocation of project proceeds),
August 2011 (significant level 2 restructuring described below), March 2012 (corrections in disbursement tables), and
in March 2013 (closing date extended from June 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014).

Significant Restructuring : On August 1, 2011 the project was subject to significant restructuring when the project's
results indicators were amended, the project's grant proceeds were reallocated, and some project activities were
adjusted or cancelled.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High:
The project objective of promoting growth in community-private sector led environmentally and socially sustainable
tourism in Transfrontier Conservation Areas was highly relevant to Government economic and environmental
objectives at appraisal and throughout implementation. It was responsive to the global development priority of
conserving biodiversity and critical eco-systems. In addition the objective was relevant to the Bank's global goals of
reducing poverty and boosting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner and in line with the Bank's Country
Partnership Strategy for FY12-15 (which included "increased employment and growth in the tourism sector") in place
during implementation and at the project's close.

As stated in the ICR, this project and its objective is part of the Government's larger Transfrontier Conservation Area
(TFCA) program which aims to conserve biodiversity and promote economic growth through ecotourism.

b. Relevance of Design:
SubstantiaL

The project design took into account key lessons from a preceding project and was built around the logic of involving
communities in the sustainable management of tourism. The design was based on activities that continue to be in line
with current thinking on biodiversity conservation, namely that by receiving a share in the economic benefits of
conservation, communities perceive an incentive to support conservation and are far more likely to do so. The
project's activities therefore consistent with the project's development objective and the Government's priority of
increasing nature-based tourism. Indeed, project activities sought to strengthen all levels of the chain of events from
Government policy, to regulation, to protected area management, and to community involvement in specific activities
such as tourist lodges.

The results framework did not capture the chain of activities from Government policy and various inputs through
intermediate outcomes to the project's final outcomes and hence the attribution of outcomes. On the other hand it
was specific about the targets for indicators used to measure the extent of growth for a number of the project's
intermediate and final outcomes..

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Substantial:
The objectives (as revised at MTR) were mostly accomplished, and in some cases exceeded. One target (on Tourism
Master Plans) was, however, dropped at MTR as it had become irrelevant in the context of the Government's push to
decentralize and use District Development Plans as the all-encompassing planning tool. The Bank team was right in
not pushing a planning document that the Government no longer wanted because it regarded it as superseded by the
new District Development Plans.

The following outputs and outcomes were achieved:

Outputs
    Private investment in TFCAs grew, with the establishment of six new tourism ventures in the TFCAs. The degree
     to which this growth can be attributed to the project is unclear (ICR, para 52).

    Local employment also grew, both through employment in community lodges financed through the project (over
     2,000 people, meeting the revised target) and employment in private tourism ventures (no data available).
     Employment in these lodges can be directly attributed to the project (ICR, para 53)

    Revenues generated by formal Protected Areas grew from $75,000 in 2006 to $427,000 in 2014, partially (72%)
     achieving the target. Attribution to the project, however, is not possible (ICR, para 55).

    An indicator on tourism ventures adopting a District Tourism Master Plan was dropped at restructuring as it had
     become unnecessary since targeted districts include tourism in their District Development Plans.

    The ICR noted (para 56) that the project achieved major policy and institutional accomplishments, such as

     - The approval of a new Conservation Policy and Conservation Areas Law
     - Establishment of the Administração Nacional das Areas de Conservação (ANAC) as an autonomous public
     agency tasked with the management of all Conservation Areas
     - New Protected Areas, such as the Ponta do Ouro Marine Reserve and the Futi Corridor (part of the Maputo
     Special Reserve) were also established by the Government with project support.
     - The MInistry of Tourism, together with civil society and private sector stakeholders, and with support from the
     project facilitated the establishment of the Foundation for the Conservation of Biodiversity (Biofund),

    A comprehensive reintroduction program which contributed to an increase and diversity in wildlife that exceeded
     the targets in all PAs. The counts indicated that populations exceeded the somewhat arbitrarily established
     targets in all cases, and in some cases by large margins (ICR, Annex 2, Table 13). The ICR concluded that the
     improved wildlife counts reflected improved control over poaching because project records showed that patrols
     had become more formal and frequent, and had perhaps also led to modifications in community hunting
     behaviour Annex 2, paras 40 and 41).

Outcomes.

    Tourism in the TFCAs grew by almost 200% from 2006 to 2013, nearly reaching (89%) the revised target of
     220,000 bed nights. The ICR plausibly links this growth to project-generated improvements in the tourism policy,
     regulatory environment and the establishment of a new Marine Reserve under the project that attracted the bulk
     of tourism destined for TFCAs. Tourism growth outside the new Marine Reserve was slower than anticipated but
     nevertheless positive.

 5. Efficiency:
  Substantial.
The PAD made some forecasts for general tourism sector growth, but it did not prepare a benefit-cost analysis for the
project.. However, the ICR prepared a systematic analysis of additional benefits and additional costs based on some
empirical data and some estimates. The analysis showed an internal rate of return of 17.8 percent and a net present
value of $1.5 million at a discount rate of 12 percent (ICR, Annex 3, Table 18, page 61)

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       No

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                     17.8%                                    100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project objective was highly relevant to country and Bank development strategies. Its design, built on past
project experience and best current thinking on biodiversity conservation, supported activities that were relevant to
Government and global environmental priorities, was rated as substantial. Output and outcome targets were for the
most part met and in some cases exceeded. The frequent collection of data on indicators provided assurance that the
outputs and outcomes were adequately measured, and that attribution of the project's substantial outcome to the
project were plausible. Efficiency is rated as substantial, supported by a good economic analysis summarized in the
ICR. Since this project had minor shortcomings in its relevance, efficacy and efficiency its outcome is rated
satisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The ICR noted four sources of risk to the assessed satisfactory outcome ratings, namely the sustainability of
institutions, community activities, financing of the PAs, and security of wildlife (para 78 to 81).

     Sustainability of institutions . The challenge here will be sustaining the technical, managerial and financial
      strength of the institutions that manage the protected areas.
     Community activities . The challenge for the community managed tourism ventures will be the considerable
      volatility of tourist arrivals from within Mozambique and from neighboring South Africa which account for the bulk
      of thre total demand for tourism services.
     Financing. The difficulties here will be providing sustained funding for the Protected Areas entirely from tourism
      revenue combined because of the limited government funding of these activities in its budget.
     Wildlife security . The resurgence of wildlife poaching in Africa,

Some of these sources of risk are difficult to assess. Nevertheless there is sufficient evidence about significant
concerns for the project's sustainability.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Bank participated closely in the design of the project and ensured a coherent set of components and
activities that addressed the multifaceted aspects of conservation and nature-based tourism. The project's design
took into account relevant lessons from a previous similar but unsuccessful project. In addition the project's
design was responsive to Bank, government and global environmental priorities. On the other hand the design
suffered from excessive optimism. For example the time it takes to generate the conditions necessary for
nature-based tourism Thus, it underestimated how long it would take for wildlife species to regenerate and how
long it would take to create conducive legal and institutional conditions for private sector growth in nature-based
tourism. It also overestimated client capacity. In addition the cost of planned structures in targeted formal
protected areas was seriously underestimated and the Government's capacity to implement was over estimated.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The team made frequent supervision visits and identified and remedied implementation constraints in a
proactive manner. Supervision missions The team engaged the client in a comprehensive mid-term review that
resulted in a proactive project restructuring that was implemented immediately (although formal approval was
delayed). The team provided technical support which led to strengthened client capacity.


     Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The government supported the project with varying intensity over time. It proceeded with relevant legal and
institutional reforms but delayed on others such as delaying the process of seeking formal approval for measures
agreed at the operational level during the MTR. This review concurs with the ICR that overall Government
performance was moderately satisfactory.
   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The implementing agency improved its performance significantly after the mid-term review, developed its
capacity, was able to disburse funds, and implemented the project effectively. This review therefore concurs with
the ICR's rating of moderately satisfactory .for the performance of the implementing agency.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The PAD stipulated detailed M&E arrangements. The M&E design was embodied in the M&E Manual. The
preparation of the Manual was a condition of effectiveness. The objectives were clearly specified and their indicators
reflected those objectives. However, several of the original indicators and targets proved unrealistic or impossible to
measure. The restructuring addressed these shortcomings and provided the project with a more logical and relevant
results framework. A full-time M&E specialist was to be placed within the TFCA Unit to coordinate the implementation
of the M&E plan. Collection and analysis of data on biodiversity impacts will be the primary responsibility of lead
agencies, and was to be carried out in collaboration with local Universities, NGOs and others engaged in conservation
activities in the TFCA areas, including local communities (PAD, page 14). However, throughout its life, the project
M&E gave insufficient attention to measuring local communities' support for conservation, satisfaction with project
activities, and benefits received. No beneficiary surveys appear to have been conducted. This was a serious
shortcoming for a project focused on involving communities in conservation activities.

The project did not benefit from national or other non-project monitoring systems. No impact studies were conducted.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   According to the ICR, data on the relevant indicators appears to have been collected in a timely fashion by the
implementing agency. M&E implementation was consistent with the PAD, but the ICR, Annex 3, para 14 noted that
"improvement of environmental services, have also not been reported as no data was collected during the course of
the Project" ..

 c. M&E Utilization:
   According to the ICR, project monitoring data were used mostly to report to the Bank and was used by Bank
supervision missions. It is unclear to what extent the mid-term review benefited from project M&E.

A complimentary Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool was used to assess the performance of targeted protected
areas; this was a first step toward performance-based management and was scaled up toward the end of the project
and is expected to be further scaled up during the successor project.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project triggered four different safeguards policies (Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats; Pest
Management; Forestry; and Involuntary Resettlement) and was rated category "B". Adequate safeguards instruments
were prepared and appear to have been implemented: no issues with regard to implementation of the relevant
safeguards policies and frameworks is reported in the ICR.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement proved somewhat problematic and led to some delays. The issues were however dealt with in a
proactive fashion and no serious issues surfaced. The project had satisfactory financial management performance.
 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
No information is available on unintended consequences of this project. To some extent the noted weaknesses in
project M&E--particular the absence of community and beneficiary assessments--mitigate against discovering any
unintended consequences.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory      The ICR is overly critical of the minor
                               Satisfactory                                   shortcomings in achievement of
                                                                              outcome targets.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant       The several factors (from funding, to
                     Outcome:                                                 poaching, institutional capacity and
                                                                              tourism arrivals) that affect the risks to
                                                                              development outcomes - some of which
                                                                              were hard to assess. Overall this review
                                                                              judges the risk as significant.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR listed eight lessons although a number of them were conclusions on issues rather than lessons. This
review distilled three lessons from those listed in the ICR.:

1.   Enthusiasm for nature -based tourism needs to be tempered . Developing and attracting tourism is a long-term
     process fraught with uncertainties because wildlife regeneration happens slowly. This has two consequences.
     First, the ability of protected areas to generate sufficient revenue to become self-financing should not be
     over-estimated and other sources of revenue need to be mobilized to finance those protected areas that will
     not become self-financing. Second, enhancing the benefits from protected areas to local communities
     sometimes needs to go beyond tourism and encompass a broader array of natural resource benefits.
2.   There is value to long -term World Bank Group engagement in conservation and tourism through a
     programmatic approach that goes beyond single projects . Developing the required natural and physical assets
     as well as legal and institutional frameworks takes far more time than can be accomplished in one typical
     project. The timeframe for WBG engagement can be better aligned with the timeframe needed to sustainably
     address conservation needs through a programmatic series of projects.
3.   Many partners can be engaged in support of conservation and the WBG can play an important role as
     convener. The project engaged private sector investors, IFC, NGOs, affected communities, co-financiers, and
     various parts of government. Specialized skills are needed to engage a variety of development partners. The
     implementing agency appears to have been better at engaging with government and NGOs than with the
     private sector and communities. IFC proved valuable for engaging with private sector investors.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is written with clarity and candor. It offered a frank assessment of strengths and weaknesses of the project
and the Bank's and borrower's performance. It contains relevant and thoughtful lessons that have already informed
the design of the follow-on operation.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
