Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18143
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
LOAN 35230-PH
June 30, 1998
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
US$l = Peso (P)
1989                $1 = P 21.69
1990                $1 = P 24.18
1991                $1 =P 27.52
1992                $1 = P 26.26
1993                $1 = P 26.76
1994                $1 = P 26.47
1995                $1= P 25.69
1996                $1= P 26.21
1997                $1 =P 29.58
1998                $1  P 29.58 (from Jan I to Mar 31)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DBP      -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DTC      -  Department of Transportation and Communication
IBRD     -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
IFC      -  International Finance Corporation
NTC      -  National Telecommunications Commission
NTDC    -  National Telecommunications Development Committee
PLDT    -  Philippines Long Distance Telephone Company
PPF      -  Project Preparation Facility
UBP      -  Union Bank of the Philippines
Vice President            Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director          Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager            Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager              Veronique Bishop, EASEG
Author                    John Cameron, Consultant



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(Loan No. 35230 PH)
Talble of Contents
Page No.
Preface .................................................                                 ii
Evaluation Summary ..................................................                     iii
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment ........................................... 1
A. Project Setting and Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .............. ...........I
B. Achievement of Objectives ..................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................... 6
D. Project Sustainability .................................................7
E. Bank Performance ...................................................7
F.  Borrower Performance ..................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................         9
H. Future Operation ................................................. 10
I.  Key Lessons Learned ................................................. 10
Part 2: Statistical Tables ...................................................            12
Table I Summary of Assessmet .13
Table 2  Related Bank Loans/Cnrdits .15
Table 3 Project Timetable .16
Table 4  Loan Disbursements: Estimated and Actual .17
Table 5    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 6  Key Indicators for Project Operation .19
Table 7  Studies Included in Project .20
Table 8A   Project Costs .          .................................................. 21
Table 8B   Project Financing ....................      .............................. 21
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................. 22
Table 10   Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................  24
Table 11   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........... ....... 27
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff 'Inputs ................................................. 28
Table 13   Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................  29
ANNEX A: MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .................................................. 31
ANNEX B: BENEFICIARY'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .................. 39
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S CONTRIBlUTION TO THE ICR ...................... 46
MAP IBRD NO. 22934
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i.
IMPLEMENTATICON COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(Loan No. 35230 PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Telephone System
Expansion Project in the Philippines, for which Loan 35230-PH in the amount of $134 million
equivalent was approved in October, 1992 and made effective on November 23, 1993.
The loan closing date is December 31, 1998 but the balance of the loan was canceled
upon the borrower's request effective May 1, 1997. Final loan disbursement took place in March
18, 1998 and this brought the total loan disbursements to $37 million.
The Project Task Manager is Veronique Bishop (EASEG) and the ICR was prepared by
John Cameron (Consultant). It was cleared by Mr. Yoshihiko Sumi, Manager, EASEG. Leo
Rodaje, (EACPF) participated in the ICR niission and contributed to the mission's work. Peter
Wright (IENTI) and Peter Smith (IENTI) reviewed the ICR. The Philippines Long Distance
Telephone Company (the beneficiary) and the Development Bank of the Philippines (the
borrower) provided comments which are included in the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in
December 1997 and concluded during a brief follow up mission in March 1998. The borrower
and beneficiary contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing relevant data and
information and preparing their own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation.
These are included in the Appendix.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYST'EM EXPANSION PROJECT
(Loan, No. 35230 PH)
Evaluation Summary
Background
i.    In the 1980s the telecommunications sector was recognized as being one of the leasit
developed infrastructure sectors in the Philippines. Service coverage was sparse: in 1986 the
nationwide telephone density was 1.0 line per 100 people. This was one of the lowest among the
ASEAN countries.  A single private operator, the Philippines Long Distance Telephone
Company (PLDT), provided 92% of the lines and all long-distance and international service.
About 50 independent local telephone companies operated the remaining lines.
ii.    The Government recognized that inadequate communications constrained economic
development. Its policy was that: (a) the private sector would be the engine of sector growth; (b)
the sector would be financially self-supporting; (c) all public telecommunications networks
should be entitled to interconnect with each other; and (d) growth in the sector should be
maximized, subject to resource constraints, particularly the availability of foreign exchange.
Economic and financial conditions in the Philippines constrained telephone operators fromn
raising investment capital from commercial sources. As a consequence in 1990 the Government
decided to make borrowing from official sources available to private operators to pursue:
investments in public call offices in unserved localities.
iii.   The major focus of the Bank Assistance Strategy for the Philippines at the time the
project was prepared was the provision of infrastructure. It also recognized the need to
strengthen public sector institutions. However, it did not specify telecommunications as a
priority sector for assistance.
Project Development Objectives
iv.    The main objectives of the Telephone System Expansion Project were to: (a) increase
telephone penetration and leased line facilities in PLDT's service area, with an emphasis on
provincial development; and (b) improve PLDT's quality of service and efficiency. In addition to
the stated project objectives, the rationale for Bank involvement in the project included the
following institutional objectives: (a) to irnprove institutional cohesion; (b) to assist with the
implementation of NTDP policies; and (c) to develop a growth-oriented institutional framework.
v.    The project objectives were clear and should have been readily achievable given
adequate planning. In view of the fact that the country's inadequate communications constrained
economic development, the project should have contributed to the development of the country.



iv
Project Components
vi.    The project was designed  to  achieve  its objectives through  investment in
telecommunications hardware and through assistance to strengthen PLDT's management
capabilities. The main project components were:
a. Expansion and rehabilitation of telephone services in provincial areas through the
provision of 133,000 lines of exchange equipment;
b. Provision of about 97 public calling offices (PCOs) in currently unserved
municipalities in 10 provinces;
c. Interconnection of six isolated exchanges, managed by independent operators, with
PLDT's toll network, thereby, providing them with access to national and
international services;
d. Provision of outside plant to connect about 41,000 new customers thereby utilizing
more completely the local exchange capacity becoming available in the Metro
Manila area;
e. Provision of special circuits, in Metro Manila area and 20 Provincial cities, to be
used as leased voice and data lines;
f. Provision of a transmission maintenance system to improve PLDT's inter-exchange
circuit operations and maintenance performance;
g. Provision of training equipment for PLDT; and
h. Consultants to strengthen PLDT's program management capabilities.
vii.   The project components as described are appropriate to meet the stated objectives of
increased penetration and improved quality of service, but inadequate to meet the additional
institutional goals stated in the project rationale. In particular, the resources available for
training and consultant assistance (components g and h) were insufficient to build the
institutional framework for the sector. Although the project components complement PLDT's
wider investment program, certain components were judged by the beneficiary to be uneconomic
once the project was being implemented.
Implementation Experience and Results
viii.  The Telephone System Expansion Project became effective in November 1993, some
four years after initial identification (October 1989). The project was originally planned to be
implemented over four years (1992 to 1995) with a planned investment (including interest during
construction) of $288 million. The Bank's loan for the project was $134.0 million. The
implementing agency and beneficiary of the loan was PLDT and the borrower was the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP). The closing date for the loan is December 31,
1998. (para. 13)
ix.   In September 1996 PLDT advised the Bank that it intended to cancel the undrawn
balance of the loan amounting to $97 million. The loan was canceled effective May 1, 1997.
Although the official closing date remained December 31, 1998, only $37 million had been
disbursed. At that time the beneficiary had signed contracts for project works and equipment to
the value $62.4 million (about 22% of total loan commitments) covering switching, transmission,
and ,data equipment. (para. 17)



v
x.    Since loan cancellation, PLDT has proceeded with the implementation of the project and
completed a number of the components. Implementation status as reported by PLDT as at
December 1997 is as follows:
a. Provincial telephone expansion  completed
b. Public call offices             completed using alternative technology
c. Interconnect non PLDT exchanges  completed using alternative technology
d. Manila outside plant & services    implementation proceeding
e. Leased line facilities          implementation proceeding
f. Transmission maintenance systrem  little progress
g. Training facilities             completed
h. Consultancy service             partially completed
Achievement of Objectives
xi.    The project partially achieved its physical objectives but achieved little of its
institutional development and private sector development objectives. The major reasons for not
fully reaching the objectives are that the loan was canceled early, there were project
implementation delays, and insufficient project resources were applied to institutional
development. (para. 21-25)
Bank and Beneficiary Performance
xii    The Bank's performance under the project was deficient in that: (a) ownership by the
government and beneficiary was weak; project preparation time was long and provision was not
made for engineering work for investment components to be completed by project effectiveness;
(b) project appraisal was inadequate; and (c) during project implementation the delay in engaging
consultants, which had been identified as a project risk, was not adequately addressed. (para. 37-
47)
xiii.   The beneficiary's performance was satisfactory. PLDT met the Bank's documentation
requirements and it completed the extensive paperwork needed to obtain regulatory and
administrative approvals from the Government. PLDT largely met its financial and other legall
covenants, with the exception of a dated covenant to appoint consultants by June 30, 1993, which
adversely affected the project. (para. 48-50)
Assessment of Outcome
xiv    The outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory. At the time the balance of the
loan was canceled, project objectives had not been met. Only the provincial telephone expansion
and leased line facilities (components a and. b) had been partially completed, while progress with
the other components was negligible. Only $37 million or 31% of planned disbursements had
been made. Of this, $19 million had been spent on telephone exchanges, $9.6 million on
transmission equipment, $7.7 million on outside plant, $0.6 million on other equipment, and $0.1
million consultant services (see Table 8A), At the end of 1997 implementation was proceeding
with most other components.



vi
Future Operation and Project Sustainability
xv.   Those project components which were implemented during the project have been
integrated into PLDT's overall network and will be serviced by it. Because these investments are
profitable and the company is accountable to its Filipino and international shareholders, it is
likely that these components will-be sustainable. (para. 56)
Key Lessons Learned
xvi.   On the basis of the evaluation the following are the key lessons:
a. As shown elsewhere, lack of ownership of a project by Government and
beneficiaries can lead to delays and difficulties in its preparation and
implementation, preventing full achievement of its objectives.  When market
conditions changed, enabling PLDT to borrow from IF or other sources, the Bank
should have reevaluated with the Government and PLDT whether an IBRD loan was
still appropriate.
b. The Bank essentially had decided to finance this project as a means of encouraging a
quasi-monopoly to invest.  Such an approach cannot work unless that quasi-
monopoly is fully commnitted to the objectives of the project and the specific
investments.
c. Convoluted on-lending arrangements should not be attempted unless (i) the
government and the borrower are highly committed to the project; (ii) there are no
simpler alternatives; and (iii) the Bank is prepared to accept the risk of substantial
delay or even failure occurring after Board approval.
d. Borrower's willingness to implement technical assistance that the Bank deems to be
necessary is a prima facie indicator of ownership. A lack of such willingness should
be deemed a cause to drop a project, even after it has been approved by the Board.
e. Project preparation documentation and reporting systems should contain sufficient
material for effective project monitoring and supervision.
f. Bank lending to private companies should presume that (i) the company has no other
alternative; (ii) the company is fully committed to the project's objectives and
investments; and (iii) the investment program being financed provides very
substantial economic and social benefits.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(Loan 'No. 35230 PH)
PART I. PROJECT IMP]LEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Setting and Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Project Setting
1.    Telecommunications sector. In the 1 980s the Philippines telecommunications sector was
recognized as being one of the least developed infrastructure sectors in the Philippines. Service
coverage was sparse and most telephone installations were concentrated in Metro Manila and, to
a lesser degree, other principal cities. Some cities, small towns and rural areas had little or no
access to telephone services. Where service was available its quality was patchy and waiting
times for connections were lengthy (three to five years in Manila). In 1986, the nationwide
telephone density was 1.0 line per 100 people, among the lowest in the ASEAN countries. Metro
Manila had coverage of 9.6 telephones per 100 people; elsewhere in the country the density was
0.3 per 100 people.
2.    Government's development policy. At the time the project was being prepared, the
Government recognized that inadequate communications constrained economic development.
Government policy was that: (a) the private sector would be the engine of sector growth; (b) the
sector would be financially self-supporting; (c) all public telecommunications networks should
be entitled to interconnect with each other; and (d) growth in the sector should be to maximized
subject to resource constraints, particularly the availability of foreign exchange. Economic and
financial conditions in the Philippines, however, constrained telephone operators from raising
investment capital from commercial sources. As a consequence in 1990 the Government decided
to make funds from official sources available to private operators to pursue investments in public
call offices in unserved localities.
3.    Bank's Assistance Strategy. The major focus of the Bank's country assistance strategy
(CAS) for the Philippines at the time of project identification was the provision of infrastructure.
It also recognized the need to strengthen public-sector institutions to increase their capacity to
absorb foreign assistance and deliver required services. Although the CAS did not specify
telecommunications as a priority sector for assistance, Bank management was interested in
pursuing expanded investment in the sector in view of its underdeveloped state.
4.    Previous Bank Experience in the 5'ector. Most of the World Bank Group's previous
experience in the Philippines telecom sector was through the International Finance Corporation
(IEFC), which had made five investments with PLDT since 1969 totaling $128.5 million and
included equity investments. IFC also acted as financial adviser to PLDT, leading the syndication
of $155 mrillion in loans for PLDT developmnent projects. In IFC's experience, PLDT generally
met its implementation targets apart from delays in completing the assembly of project financing
plans, regulatory clearances, and equipment deliveries. At the time of project preparation,
however, IFC was unable to finance an additional loan to PLDT due to IFC's capital constraints.



2
5.    The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) made its first loan
to the Philippines telecommunications sector in 1985. Under the Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2495- PH), IBRD lent $4 million to strengthen the National Telecommunications
Cofmmission (NTC) and update the National Telephone Program. This project met most
objectives despite a number of implementation problems. As a result of the Bank's continued
dialogue with the Government, the National Telecommunications Development Committee
(NTDC) was established.
6.    The Bank has also managed a Japanese Government grant of Yen 278 million for
technical assistance to the telecommunications sector, which was irnplemented in parallel with
the Telephone System Expansion Project. Its purpose was to strengthen sector management and
regulation. The direct beneficiaries of the grant were the Department of Transportation and
Communication (DTC) and the NTC.
7.    Background of PLDT. PLDT was and remains one of the largest companies in the
Philippines. At the end of 1991, its net worth exceeded P18 billion ($0.64 billion) and its annual
revenues were about P16.6 billion ($0.6 billion). PLDT provided 92% of telephone connections
in the Philippines, with about 50 other investor-and local-government-owned operators providing
the remaining 8%. The secondary carriers were small, financially weak, and thinly capitalized.
8.    PLDT's stock is traded on the Philippine Stock Exchange and the New York Stock
Exchange. At the time the project was being prepared, about 39% of common stock was held by
interests that have owned large blocks of shares for many years; 30% was owned beneficially by
US-based stock brokerage firms on behalf of investors; 17% was owned by foreign investors; and
14% was held by investors in the Philippines.
Proiect Objectives
9.    The objectives of the project were: (a) to increase telephone penetration and leased line
facilities in PLDT's service area with an emphasis on provincial development; and (b) to improve
PLDT's quality of service and efficiency. In addition to these stated project objectives, the
rationale for Bank involvement at appraisal was: (a) to improve institutional cohesion; (b) to
assist with the implementation of NTDP policies; and (c) to develop a growth-oriented
institutional framework.
10.   These objectives were clear and should have been readily achievable given adequate
planning. They were not, however, completely in line with the Bank's CAS. Nevertheless, in
view of the fact that the country's inadequate communications constrained economic
development, the project should have contributed to the country's development.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
Project Components
11.   The main project components were:
a. Expansion and rehabilitation of telephone services in provincial areas through the
provision of 133,000 lines of exchange equipment;



3
b. Provision of about 97 public calling offices (PCOs) in then unserved municipalities
in 10 provinces;
c. Interconnection of six isolated exchanges, managed by independent operators, with
PLDT's toll network thereby providing them with access to national and
international services;
d. Provision of outside plant to connect about 41,000 new customers thereby utilizing
more completely the local exchange capacity becoming available in the Metro
Manila area;
e. Provision of special circuits, in Metro Manila area and 20 Provincial cities, to be
used as leased voice and data lines;
f. Provision of a transmission maintenance system to improve PLDT's inter-exchange
circuit operations and maintenance performance;
g. Provision of training equipment iFor PLDT; and
h. Consultants to strengthen PLDT's program management capabilities.
12.   The project components and resources were appropriate to meet the stated objectives but
inadequate to meet the additional institutional goals stated in the project rationale. In particular,
the resources available for training and consultant assistance (components g and h) were
insufficient to build the institutional framework for the sector. Although the project objectives
complement PLDT' s wider investment program, during project implementation certain
components were judged by the beneficiary to be not technically feasible and uneconomic as
designed.
Project Implementation
13.   The World Bank's Board of Directors approved a $134 million loan for the Telephone
System Expansion Project in October 1992. The loan was extended to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP) with a guarantee from the Government of the Philippines. The project was
expected to be implemented over four years with a total investment of $288 million, and the
planned closing date was December 31, 1998.
14.   The project was not declared effective until November 1993, largely because of the
complexity of on-lending arrangements, which were developed after Board approval. These
delays should have been anticipated, because even though the framework for private financing
can be agreed in advance, such deals are seldom closed until the very last. Thus, the Bank must
consider whether it wishes to become involved in arrangements where closing may lag Board
approval by many months, and where the terms and conditions of such arrangements might
change materially.
15.   On-lending arrangements were highly convoluted. IBRD could not lend directly to
PLDT, as the Government (under the Foreign Borrowing Act) was prohibited from providing
guarantees on loans to privately-owned companies. IBRD could lend to Government-owned
banks such as DBP, but DBP's ability to on-lend to PLDT was constrained by single-borrower
limits. An on-lending structure was devisecd which surmounted these constraints: IBRD would
lend to DBP, which would on-lend the funds to a syndicate of banks which, for a fee, would then
on-lend to PLDT. It was the only on-lending arrangement that could satisfy the existing
consultants, even though it added substantially to PLDT's cost of borrowing.
16.   Once the on-lending arrangements were agreed upon, DBP encountered difficulties
engaging a syndicate of banks. Each potential syndicate bank also had a single-borrower limit



4
and were reluctant to tap out these limits, particularly for a long-term loan, at a fee that was very
much lower than what they could earn on a peso loan to PLDT. Once the syndicate was finally
arranged, one of the banks found itself unable to participate without breaching other covenants,
so a substitute bank was found and the legal documents were amended accordingly. This process
caused considerable delay in the organization of the overall project financing package and thus to
the commencement of the project.
17.   In September 1996 the DBP advised the Bank that PLDT intended to cancel the undrawn
balance of the loan amounting to $97 million because the rapid growth in the economy of the
Philippines and credit availability enabled PLDT to access more favorable credit from
commercial sources. The loan was canceled effective May 1, 1997.
18.   At that time, only 4 components had been completed: provincial telephone expansion,
public call offices, interconnection of exchanges, and training facilities (components a, b, c and
g). Progress with the other components was negligible. The Bank had disbursed $37 million
(31% of loan commitment), of which $19 million had been spent on telephone exchanges, $9.6
million on transmission equipment, $7.7 million on outside plant, $0.6 million on other
equipment, and $0.1 million on consultancy services (see Table 8A). Implementation status as
reported by PLDT as of December 1997 may be summarized as follows:
a. Provincial telephone expansion   completed
b. Public call offices              completed using alternative technology
c. Interconnect non-PLDT exchanges  completed using alternative technology
d. Manila outside plant & services  implementation proceeding
e. Leased line facilities          implementation proceeding
f. Transmission maintenance system   little progress
g. Training facilities              completed
h. Consultancy service              partially completed
19.   As of the end of 1997, implementation was proceeding on components d and e. The
beneficiary expects to eventually spend a total of $183 million on the project compared with an
original estimate of $270 million (before interest during construction; see Table 8A). It is further
noted that the beneficiary estimates that about $100 million has been spent to date or 37% of the
original project estimate or 55% of the revised estimate. An assessment of the key project
indicators for project implementation and the status of implementation of each of the key project
components as supplied by the beneficiary as of December 1997 is shown in Table 5.
20.   Levels of expenditure. Total project base cost excluding interest during construction was
estimated at appraisal at $236.5 million, of which $200.5 million (84.8%) was designated
equipment and services, $34 million (14.4%) civil works, and $2 mnillion (0.8%) consultancy
services.
Reasons Objectives Not Fully Achieved
21.   Implementation delays. Provision was not made during project appraisal to ensure that
on-lending arrangements and bid documents would be ready at effectiveness. PLDT assessed
that this lag resulted from both complexities in preparing specific documentation for the Bank'
' PLDT's preparation of project proposals, plans and financial requirements, and subsequent approval
within PLDT senior management committees often required more than one year. PLDT indicated that



5
and the extensive paperwork necessary to obtain regulatory and administrative approvals from
government.
22.   Delays in appointment of consultants also hindered implementation. PLDT agreed to
employ management consultants by June 30, 1993 to review project management structure, work
practices, training, and support systems and recommend appropriate improvements; and assist
with project management where necessary2. The consultants did not start work until August
1995, 26 months later than agreed and 21 months after project effectiveness. Had the
consultants been appointed at the commencement of the project, procurement problems may have
been solved earlier and project implementation may have been further advanced. Project
supervision documentation3 did not flag legal covenants as being unsatisfactory.
23.   Delayed project readiness was largely responsible for slow loan disbursement (see Table
4). The first disbursements were not made until 1995. By the end of fiscal year 1995 only about
30% of planned disbursements had been made, and by the end of 1996 the lag had increased to
36% (see Table 4). Late project startup, availability of other sources of funds, stringent Bank and
Government procedures, poor communications, and dependency on DBP all combined to further
slow disbursements.
24.   Institutional development.  Project design contained little structured institutional
development or technical assistance compared with the size of the project; $2 million for
institutional strengthening compared to a total investment program of $270 million (excluding
interest). This may have had some impact if it had been timely but delays in the appointment of
consultants to the inexperienced implementing agency and Government procedural requirements
resulted in significant project delays.
25.   Even though the project focused largely on telecommunications hardware and works, the
Bank saw the project as a vehicle to continue to lead PLDT to take a balanced approach toward
network and industry development. The Bank incorrectly believed that its dialogue with the
Government and PLDT placed it in a unique position to use its involvement to address major
industry issues. In view of the fact that the remaining balance of the loan was canceled so early
in the implementation phase, it is assessed that the Bank did not have any significant input or
impact on the sector.
Economic Evaluation
26.   Project preparation documents projected the financial rate of return from the project to
be 15% and the economic rate of return, 21%. However, PLDT's overall investment program for
1991-96 contained three other components (thie X-5, X5C, and X-6 projects) apart from the Bank
funded project. These other investment programs also involved the expansion of existing
networks and customer facilities. In the financial and economic analysis prepared at appraisal,
the projected returns from the Bank project were disaggregated from the overall benefits from the
total investment program to arrive at the assessed return.
preparation of Bidding Documents and Evaluation Reports to meet Bank standards was laborious and time
consuming.
2 Section II of the Schedule to the Project Agreement between the Bank and PLDT
3Form 590s



6
27.   Because the project was not completed at the time the balance of the loan was canceled
and because of a lack of data, a detailed review of the economic return from the total project
cannot be undertaken. However, to provide some indication of the financial and economic return
from the project, an assessment of Component A (Expansion and rehabilitation of the telephone
services in provincial areas) was undertaken4 (Table 9). It shows the financial internal rate of
return and economic internal rate of return to be 33% and 47% respectively. This is significantly
higher than the overall project return assessed as appraisal.
28.   Table 6 provides key financial and physical operational indicators for PLDT over the
period 1992 to 1997. Target data is taken from project preparation documents and actual data
was provided by PLDT. The data for 1997 shows that the actual number of working lines is over
10% higher than the target for 1997. Total revenue in 1997 was 15% below that expected in
project preparation documents; however, costs were also below projected levels, due largely to
productivity improvements. Notably, the number of staff per 1000 working lines was about 55%
lower than projected at appraisal.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
29.    Changed economic conditions.  Changed economic conditions were a major factor
affecting the outcome of the project. In its letter to the DBP in which it canceled the remaining
balance of the loan, PLDT stated that the rapid growth in the economy of the Philippines and
improved access to credit from commercial sources under more favorable terms and conditions
were the reasons for canceling the undrawn balance of the loan. It is apparent that this major
improvement in the economy had a significant impact on the availability of credit and that it
enabled PLDT to access more favorable credit from  other lenders.  As a result PLDT
rescheduled, redesigned, and canceled certain project components according to newly assessed
priorities, conditions and technology. Although this restructuring may have improved the
company's efficiency, it reduced the achievement of social goals including the connection of
remote areas.
Factors Subject to Government Control
30.   Delay in completing on-Lending arrangements. Complications in finalizing on-lending
arrangements to PLDT were a major source of delays in project effectiveness as discussed in
para. 18 above.
31.   Documentation requirements.  Documentation requirements were significant during
project preparation.  PLDT experienced major difficulties complying with Government
documentation and clearance requirements. These difficulties resulted in delays in project
implementation.
Factors Generally Subject to Beneficiarv Control
4Because of a lack of disaggregated data, the analysis assumes that average revenue and operating expenses
from the new provincial lines is the same as the average for all PLDT lines.



7
32.   Inexperienced beneficiary.  According to PLDT, its lack of experience with Bank
policies and procedures resulted in slow preparation and lack of ownership.
33.   Procurement delays. Up to December 1995 implementation progress ratings5 were all
satisfactory or highly satisfactory.  In December 1995 procurement was downgraded to
unsatisfactory but the overall implementation progress retained a satisfactory rating. The reason
provided for the unsatisfactory procurement rating was that procurement was about eighteen (18)
months behind schedule. PLDT was also making slower than expected progress in defining and
preparing new feasibility reports and bid documents for remaining items. These difficulties are
assessed to be largely the result of delays in engaging consultants to assist with procurement and
project management and procedures within PLDT and Government.
34.   Consultancy services delays. As noted above, delays in the appointment of consultants
caused significant delays in procurement, which resulted in delays in project implementation.
35.   Loan cancellation.  The early cancellation of the loan also contributed to lack of
achievement of project objectives. With little contact with the Bank and few regulatory
requirements, PLDT was free to pursue its own financing and investment priorities.
D.    Project Sustainability
36.   The infrastructure developed under the project generates substantial profits. Likewise,
the hardware installed under the project is playing an integral role in the company's and the
country's growth. Moreover, PLDT is subject to shareholder scrutiny both in the Philippines and
abroad. PLDT therefore has both incentives and resources to sustain the physical investments
made under the project. Indeed, PLDT's track record indicates that newly installed capacity is
being maintained. The regional economic crisis is likely to depress PLDT's revenues and
earnings for 1998 and possibly cause it to curtail its expansion plans. Nonetheless, the
company's relatively low leverage and high debt service coverage will shield it from a downturn.
E.    Bank Performance
37.   The Bank's performance is considered deficient in project identification, preparation,
appraisal, and supervision.
38.   The Telecommunications sector - a more balanced approach. Apart from the Bank
managed Japanese grant which concluded in December 1994 and which benefited institutions
other than to PLDT, the project included little institutional support which would have enabled
PLDT to take a more balanced approach to the development of the sector. The project instead
focused on investment in hardware. Of the total loan of $134 million, only $2 million was for
consulting services. These services were largely focused in the area of project management
rather than long term institutional development of the sector. Project components could have
been better linked to institutional objectives.
39.   Cornerstone Financier.  The Bank considered that it would assume the role of a
cornerstone financier for PLDT, which would enhance PLDT's financial credibility and its
efforts to obtain additional investment needs from commercial sources. PLDT's financial
strength and past borrowing history indicates that it did not need the Bank to fulfill this function.
5 As recorded in the Form 590s



8
40.   At the time of project preparation, PLDT was unable to tap commercial sources of funds,
nor was it able to borrow from IFC, as noted above. By October 1992 however, when the project
was presented to the Bank's Board of Directors, both of these constraints had been lifted.
Indeed, the day before Board presentation PLDT floated a $200 m stock issue on the American
Stock Exchange. IFC had also received a capital increase in the summer of 1992, which would
have enabled it to add to lend directly to PLDT without the convoluted arrangements required for
the IBRD loan. Despite these significant changes, the IBRD loan was approved as planned.
41.   Largely due to the availability of other sources of financing, the Government and PLDT
became reluctant to complete the project with IBRD financing..
42.   Institutional development. The outcome of this project indicates that there is a need for
the Bank to review how it can better achieve sector development by funding private
development. It was believed that PLDT would be able to become more responsive to consumers
by emphasizing cost optimization and quality of service. However, there was insufficient
emphasis on sector policies in this project to achieve this, despite a substantial Japanese grant
managed by the Bank.
43.   PLDT and its competitors. Smaller telephone providers who operate in remote locations
and less profitable areas might have been considered for inclusion in the project. These
providers constitute about 50 other investor and local government owned operators providing 8%
of services. They were generally small, financially weak and thinly capitalized. The incentives
for competition, investment and efficiency could have been strengthened if these carriers had
been included in this project. The reasons for their exclusion is unclear, particularly in view of
the apparent need to expand communications in the lesser-developed areas of the country and
also in view of PLDT's policy of not actively seeking to extend its services beyond narrowly
defined, highly profitable areas.
Project Appraisal
44.   Procurement scheduling. Procurement delays were a major problem for the project. At
appraisal, provision should have been made to ensure that bid documents for at least the first
year's investment and procurement activities would be ready at effectiveness to prevent
disbursement delays. This could have been supported through a Project Preparation Facility.
45.   Monitoring indicators.   The project documentation lacked key implementation
milestones, a comprehensive implementation schedule, and detailed cost tables showing planned
expenditure by project component by years. The lack of this material precluded an objective
assessment of the progress of actual vs. planned project implementation.
Project Supervision
46.   Consultancy delays. The delay in engaging consultants should have been addressed
during project supervision. The Bank assessed project management capacity as the only
potential risk to the project. This was on the basis of the project extending PLDT's project
management ability beyond its current capacity. The problem was to be overcome by the project
providing PLDT with project management consultants. The project failed to mitigate this risk by
failing to ensure that skilled consultants were appointed before project implementation started.



9
As noted above, the appointment of management consultants was a dated covenant in the Project
Agreement. The Bank did not strongly pursue compliance with this provision.
47.   Bank supervision.. While there was continuity of Bank staff during supervision it is
evident that supervision lacked substance. The record of supervision for this project6 is an
unreliable guide for assessing the quality of supervision. For instance, there are inconsistencies
in the number of field staff weeks actually spent on supervision. Given the record, it is not
evident why these supervision missions assessed project implementation progress as satisfactory.
F.    Borrower Performance
Project Preparation
48.   PLDT's performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal are
considered satisfactory. As a first-time borrower from IBRD, PLDT experienced difficulties in
preparing documentation required by the Bank, which caused some delays. PLDT was also
overwhelmed by the extensive paperwork required to obtain regulatory and administrative
approvals from the Government.
Project Implementation
49.   PLDT's performance during the implementation phase can also be rated as satisfactory
even though it experienced difficulties during the initial phases of bid preparation and evaluation.
PLDT eventually realized the need for longer lead-time to meet the Bank's requirements.
50.   Covenant Compliance. DBP and PLDT were largely in compliance with financial and
other legal covenants. However, as noted above, PLDT did not comply with the dated covenant
to appoint consultants by June 30, 1993.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
Overall Assessment
51.   The outcome of the project is assessed as being unsatisfactory. At the time the Bank was
advised that the balance of the loan was to be canceled, project objectives had not been met.
Hardware Procurement and Installation
52.   Procurement and installation of hardware was in progress for the provincial telephone
expansion component and the leased line facilities component but no appreciable progress had
been made with other components at the time the loan was canceled. Table 4 shows that total
Bank disbursements were $37 million or 28% of the estimated Bank loan for the project.
53.   Since the balance of the loan was canceled PLDT has proceeded with the implementation
of the project. Table 5 details the status of its implementation. This shows that a number of the
components have been completed. In the instance of the provincial telephone expansion
component 6% more lines and 53% more exchanges than were originally planned have been
6Form 590s, Aide Memoires



10
installed. Implementation of other components is proceeding and as of December 1997 about
$100 million has been spent on project components compared to an estimated project cost of
$270 million (before interest).
Quality of Service and Efficiency
54.   Measure of service and efficiency. Four parameters were used to measure the quality of
service and efficiency provided by PLDT: (i) average faults per 100 stations in service; (ii)
percent fault services restored within 48 hours; (iii) debt to total equity net of revaluation
surplus; and (iv) rate of return on revalued assets (see Table 6). The number of faults and
restoration times were not measured by PLDT after December 1993 so it is not possible to
compare results with the targets set at the time the project was prepared. As at the end of 1997
the debt to total equity ratio was 61.9% compared with the target at the time of project
preparation of 51 %. This indicates a weaker financial position than that projected.
55.   A further measure of improved efficiency is the number of staff per 1000 working lines.
At the time the project was prepared PLDT employed 27.8 people per 1000 working lines. At
the end of 1997 this declined to 9.5 people compared with a target set at the time of project
preparation of 21. The indicators available show a profitable firm that is becoming more
efficient but they reveal little about quality of service.
H.    Future Operation
56.    Those project components which were implemented during the project have been
integrated into PLDT's overall network and will be serviced by them. No specific plan has been
developed or agreements entered into with the Bank for the future operation of the implemented
project components. The equipment and services provided by the project will be maintained by
PLDT under its operations and maintenance plan. The company has established corporate
systems practice guidelines to ensure nationwide compliance. The company also invests in
programs to provide regular training to its operations and maintenance personnel.
57.   PLDT has a major incentive to maintain the infrastructure provided by the project
because its revenue generating capacity. In addition, because of PLDT's relative financial
strength it is highly unlikely that the firm will allow such significant assets to fall into disrepair.
58.    Key operational performance targets for 1992 to 1997 are reproduced in Table 6 along
with achievements for each indicator (for the whole company). PLDT has seen fit not to release
new operational performance targets for forthcoming years because of the competitive sensitivity
of these targets. In addition, because of the relative size of the PLDT's overall business
compared to the implemented project components, it is unlikely that any company wide
indicators could be developed which would reflect the efficiency of operation of the Bank funded
infrastructure.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
59.   On the basis of this evaluation the project provides the following the key lessons:
a. As shown elsewhere, lack of ownership of a project by Government and
beneficiaries can lead to delays and difficulties in its preparation and
implementation, preventing full achievement of its objectives.  When market



11
conditions changed, enabling PLDT to borrow from IFC or other sources, the Bank
should have reevaluated with the Government and PLDT whether an IBRD loan was
still appropriate.
b. The Bank essentially had decided to finance this project as a means of encouraging a
quasi-monopoly to invest.  Such an approach cannot work unless that quasi-
monopoly is fully committed to the objectives of the project and the specific
investments.
c. Convoluted on-lending arrangements should not be attempted unless (i) the
government and the borrower are highly committed to the project; (ii) there are no
simpler alternatives; and (iii) the Bank is prepared to accept the risk of substantial
delay or even failure occurring after Board approval.
d. Borrower's willingness to implement technical assistance that the Bank deems to be
necessary is a prima facie indicator of ownership. A lack of such willingness should
be deemed a cause to drop a project, even after it has been approved by the Board.
e. Project preparation documentation and reporting systems should contain sufficient
material for effective project monitoring and supervision.
f. Bank lending to private companies should presume that (i) the company has no other
alternative; (ii) the company is fully committed to the project's objectives and
investments; and (iii) the investment program being financed provides very
substantial economic and social benefits.



12
Part II Statistical Tables
Table 1:            Summary of Assessment
Table 2:            Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:            Project Timetable
Table 4:            Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:            Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:            Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:            Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:           Project Costs
Table 8B:           Project Financing
Table 9:            Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:           Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:           Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:           Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:           Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices
A:                  Mission's Aide Memoire
B:                  Beneficiary's contribution to the ICR
C:                  Borrower's contribution to the ICR
D:                  Map (IBRD No. 22934)



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments'
A. Achievement of Obiectives          Substantial    Partial      Neeli2ible      Not
applicable
Macro policies2                          0l            El            D E
Sector policies3                           l           11            0 E
Financial objectives                     E             E             O            [r]
Institutional development5               Cl            0             LxJ           0
Physical objectives                      E             ECi           El            El
Poverty reduction7                       a             a             El           l3
Gender issues                            E             El            E            [3
Other social issues                      a             Cl            El           m1
Environmental objectives                  E            E             E            [E
Public sector management                  E            E             El           [-]
Private sector development8              E             0 El                        E
Other (specify)                          E             E             E lx3
B. Project Sustainability              Likelv       Unlikely     Uncertain
Project sustainability                                ECl            El
C. Bank nerformance                     Hi2hlv      Satisfactory  Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification9                           E            E             L23
Preparation assistance                    El           E l
Appraisal                                 E            E             Ix
Supervision'0                             El           0 El
D. Beneficiary performance              Highly      Satisfactory  Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                               El           [E]           E
Implementation                            E            IX]           E
Covenant compliance"                      E            El            [l
Operation (if applicable)                              El            El
1 The beneficiary prepared a Summary of Assessments similar to Table 1. However, its assessment differed
from the Bank's in terms of: (A) achievement of objectives; (C) Bank performance; (D) Beneficiary
performance and; (E) assessment of outcome.
2 Rated by the beneficiary as partial
3 Rated by the beneficiary as substantial on the basis that the project supported Government policy
4Rated by the beneficiary as substantial because of the impact the project will have on the financial
objectives of the country
5 Rated by the beneficiary as partial
6 Rated by the beneficiary as substantial
7 Rated by the beneficiary as negligible
8 Rated by the beneficiary as substantial on the basis that improved access to telephone facilities promote
the development of the private sector
9 Rated by the beneficiary as satisfactory on the basis that the Bank specified the scope of the project
' Rated by the beneficiary as satisfactory
" Rated by the beneficiary as highly satisfactory



14
E. Assessment of outcome                     Hi2hlv        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Highly
Satisfactory                                  unsatisfactorv
Assessment of outcome'2                         l               l              X               E
12 Rated by the beneficiary as satisfactory



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Title                     Purpose               Year of      Loan          Status
approval    amount
(US$m)
Telecommunications     To strengthen NTC. The project     1985        4.0         Closed on
Technical Assistance   sought to: (i) improve the regulatory                     September 30,
Project (Loan 2495-PH)  framework and NTC's structure; (ii)                          1990
lay the groundwork for rationalising
the telephone tariff structure; (iii)
develop procedures for the efficient
management of radio frequencies;
(iv) improve network planning; and
(v) expand training.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned a/      date actuaU latest
estimate
Identification                      n.a.                  October 1989
Preparation (IEPS)                  n.a.                  May 1990
Appraisal                           March 1991            November 1990
Negotiations                        April 1991            April to July 1992
Letter of development policy        n.a.                  August 10, 1990
Board presentation                  September 1991        October 1992
Signing                             n.a.                  April 1993
Effectiveness                        December 1992        November 23, 1993
Project completion                  June 30, 1998
Loan closing                        December 31, 1998
Loan balance cancellation
- Advise                                                  September, 1996
- Effective                                               May 1, 1997
n.a. not available
a/ Sources: IEPS and SAR



17
Table 4: Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ M)
1993     1994      1995     1996      1997      1998     1999
Appraisal estimate            8.0      30.0      62.0      94.0     120.0    132.0    134.0
Revised
Actual                                           17.7      33.9    37.0 a/    37.0
Actual as % of appraisal       0         0       28.5      36.1     30.8      28.0
Date of last disbursement                                                    Mar 98
Cancellations:
On May 1, 1997, at the request of the Borrower, the undrawn balance of US$96,977,122 was canceled.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Component                                SAR             Revised       Current status
Provincial telephone expansion
- New lines                             133,000          142,800       Completed
- New exchanges                           32               50          Completed
- Expand exchanges                        23                26        Completed
Public call offices (PCO)
- Install PCOs in unserved                97                97         Cancelled under this project as
municipalities using Cellular Mobile                                   CMTS not technically feasible.
Telephone System (CMTS)                                                PLDT implemented using Very
Small Aperture Terminal
(VSAT) technology under
separate financing package.
VSAT technology not available
at time project designed.
Interconnect non PLDT exchanges
- Interconnect independently operated     6                 6          Cancelled under this project
and Govt. exchanges                                                    package because microwave
technology is uneconomic.
However, PLDT provided
interconnection using VSAT
facilities under separate project
financing package.
Manila outside plant & services
- Outside plant & equipment for       41,000 new       >41,000 new     Cancelled under this project
customer premises for new connections  subscribers      subscribers    package. Implementation was
advanced by PLDT under its
X5C Program Package.
Leased line facilities
- Voice and data circuits in Manila and  2,000        to be determined   Planning and engineering review
provincial cities                                                      of the proposed Wideband
Multi-service network is still on-
going. Target completion 1999.
Expansion of existing data
network completed.
Transmission maintenance system
- Digital maintenance system to                                       Pre-implementation activities
monitor circuits in Manila                                             on-going, hand in hand with
PLDT's Integrated TMN
Project. Target completion
1999
Training facilities
- Simulation & miscellaneous                                          Completed under non Bank
equipment                                                             finance in 1996
Consultancy services
Price verification study                                              Completed
Project management                                                    Phase I & 2 completed, Phase 3
on-going.



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation 13
Performance indicators                    1992                      1993                      1994                      1995                       1996                      1997
SAR         Actual        SAR         Actual        SAR         Actual        SAR         Actual         SAR         Actual        SAR         Actual
Network
Installed exchange capacity       888,145      853.059      892,924      910,718      1,230,11S    1,140,399    1,546,350    1,669,178     1,649.520    2,220,511    1,661,580    2.233.100
(equipped lines)
Working lines                     713,365      625,166      805,343       811,204     1,050,359     984,740     1,279,671     1,196,860    1,442,558    1,518,739    1,505,442     1,662,631
Stations in service (SIS)'4       1.188,408    1.175.332    1,290,408    1,372,384    1,392,408    1,483.970    1,494.408     1.711.011    1.596,408    2,045,083     1,698,408   2.199.372
Ouality of service
Ave. faults/100) SIS                12.0         11.8         11.2          9.8         10.4          15           9.7                       9.0                        8.8
% Iault restored in 48 hrs          94.0         92.3         94.3         94.3         94.5 sh                   94.8                       95.0                      95.2
Staffiin2
StafflI000 working lines            28.0         27.8         26.5         22.8         25.0         20.63        23.5          16.2         22.0         12.03         21.0         9.45
Financial'7
Gross revenue (Peso bill)           18.1         18.)         21.1         20.4         24.8         22.5          29.6         25.1         35.3         28.7          42.0         35.6
Current ratio                       1.4          2.8           1.1          1.8          1.4          2.1          1.1           1.5          1.3          1.4          1.1          1.2
Operating ratio (%)                 59.0         61.1         61.0         60.9         61.0         63.3         60.0          67.2         57.1         60.1          55.0         57.7
Debt service coverage               1.9          2.3           1.5          2.4          1.3          1.7          1.4          2.0           1.3          1.4          1.5          1.8
Debt/total equity net of            52.0         45.8         54.0         40.8         57.O         40.1          57.0         44.8         56.0         47.4          51.0         61.9
revaluation surplus (%)
Return on assets (%) 18             8.0          11.1          8.0         10.4          8.0         10.)          8.1          6.0'9         8.0          8.2          8.1          8.0'"
Key indicators are from  Annex 3.4 of the SAR. It is noted that they relate to the entire operations of PLDT and not of the project components.
4SIS include PLDT owned number of subscriber lines including business, PABX trunks and extensions, paystations, mobile phones and subscriber owned PABX extensions
' Collection of data discontinued efiective December 31, 1994
6Collection of data discontinued efiective December 31, 1994
17Actual figures adjusted by PLDT to reflect the change in the method of accounting for income tax as per Accounting Standards Council Statement No. 23
18 Method of'asset valuation not assessed during ICR Mission
1' Revalued assets based on the appraisal ol the Company's property plant and equipment as of December 30, 1993, as approved by the National Telecommunications Commission
on June21, 1995
20 Revalued assets based on the-reappraisal of PLDT's properties in service as of December 31, 1993 to reflect sound values at current prices as ol December 29, 1997. The new
appraisal is pending approval with the NTC.



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No.              Study                          Status                      Impact of Study
I    Price verification study for    Completed                     Prices of direct purchase contracts
directly negotiated bids                                     were assured to be within the price
standards of telecom industry, and
were ensured to be comparable with
international prices for similar
equipment recently provided by the
suppliers.
2     Review practices within PLDT   PLDT signed a project         Among the action plans agreed, one
that impact on project         management consulting         is to implement a pilot project
management. Also review the    agreement to be executed in 3    introducing a full "turn- key
disciplines of outside and inside    phases as follows:      concept", which aims to further
plant, transmission and overall                              improve project management
project management.            Phase 1 Diagnostic review of    delivery.
PLDT's Project management
processes-completed
Phase 2 Presents the findings
under Phase I and recommends
implementation action plans-
completed
Phase 3 Assistance to PLDT in
implementing the agreed action
plans under Phase 2- still
ongoin,.
3     Assess the effectiveness of    Benchmarking to be conducted   Assessment of pilot processes
improvements implemented by    at a later stage.             introduced in this new concept shall
PLDT.                                                        be done after the implementation of
the project which is expected to
commence by the ISt quarter of
1998.



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                   Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual (US$ M)
Local2'  Foreign   Total   Local22  Foreign   Total
Equipment & Services
Telephone exchanges                      20.00     50.50     70.50      0.87      21.47    22.34
Transmission equipment                   12.00     26.00     38.00      6.52      37.06    43.58
Outside plant                            31.50     29.50     61.00     13.84      46.89    60.73
Customer premises equipment               2.00      4.00      6.00      5.24       3.34     8.58
Operations & training equipment           3.50       9.50    13.00      0.14       9.10     9.24
Power equip., towers, vehicles & misc.    6.00       6.00    12.00      7.03       0.67     7.70
Unallocated
Sub total                                75.00    125.50    200.50     33.64      99.53   152.17
Civil works
Outside plant                             8.50       2.50    11.00     14.83               14.83
Buildings & sites                        19.00      4.00     23.00     14.30               14.30
Unallocated
Sub total                                27.50      6.50     34.00     29.13               29.13
Consultancy                                          2.00     2.00                 0.61     0.61
Unallocated (Other consultancy)                                                    1.41     1.41
Total base cost                         102.50    134.00    236.50     62.77     120.55   183.32
Physical contingency                      8.50       8.50    17.00
Price contingency                        11.00       5.50    16.50
Total proiect cost                      122.00    148.00    270.00     62.77     120.55   183.32
Interest during construction              5.00      13.00    18.00
Total financing required                127.00    161.00    288.00
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                  Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual ($USM)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                                                134.0    134.0                37.02    37.02
PLDT                                      127.0      27.0    154.0    62.77       83.53   146.30
Total                                     127.0     161.0    288.0    62.77      120.55   183.32
21 Foreign exchange rate US$1 = Peso 28
22 Foreign exchange rate 1993-1997 US$1 = Peso 26.15 (average), estimate 1998-1999, US$1 = Peso 32



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benerts23
Financial Data24
Op.        Op.      Net Op.    Income    Op. cash   Op. cash   Op. cash     Lines    Invest. $   Increment
Year     Revenue   expenses   Income    after tax   flow Peso   flow $    flow/line   installed    million29   cash flow
Peso     Peso mill  Peso mill    Peso       mill     million27    s28       under                   $
mill25                           mill26                                     project              million30\
1995                                                                                                    37.5      -37.5
1996                                                                                                    34.4      -34.4
1997        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1     9796.2    15932.9      531.1      237.8      71400         6.6       10.4
1998        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1     9946.9    16083.6      536.1      240.1    142800                    34.3
1999        35709.3    20638.2   15071.1    10097.6    16234.3       541.1      242.3    142800                    34.6
2000        35709.3    20638.2   15071.1    10248.3    16385.0       546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9
2001        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9
2002        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9
2003        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9
2004        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9
2005        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9
2006        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9                         is
2007        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0       546.1      244.6    142800                   34.9
2008        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0       546.1      244.6    142800                   34.9
2009        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9
2010         35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1      244.6    142800                   34.9
2011        35709.3    20638.2    15071.1    10248.3    16385.0      546.1       244.6    142800                   34.9
Financial internal rate of return equals 33%
Net present value of benefits using 12% discount rate is $124 million
23 Using constant prices
24 Analysis is for Component A only- Expansion and rehabilitation of telephone services in provincial areas
25 Revenue and expense data from PLDT 1997 Annual Report
26 Tax rates as follows: 1997, 35%; 1998, 34%; 1999, 33%; 2000 and there after 32%.
27 Exchange rate conversion based on Peso 30 to $1 as PLDT receives certain revenues in other currencies
28 Based on 2,233,100 lines
29 Source: PLDT
30 Analysis assumes that average revenue and operating expenses from new provincial lines is the same as the average for all PLDT lines



Table 9 continued: Economic Costs and Benerits
Economic Data
Economic  Econ. Op.     Net      Net econ.    Econ.     Lines      Invest. $  Increment
Year     benefits   expenses   operating   Benefits $   Benefits   installed  million  benefits $
Peso       Peso     Benelits    million    per line $    under              million
mill3"     mill32    Peso mill                        project
1995                                                                             37.5      -37.54
1996                                                                             34.4      -30.68
1997        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8      71400        6.6       19.12
1998        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
1999        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2000        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2001        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2002        35709.3   !l60!.2    24!08.A       803.6      358.8    1428n                    51.139
2003        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2004        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2005        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2006        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2007        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2008        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2009        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2010        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
2011        35709.3    11601.2   24108.1       803.6      358.8    142800                   51.39
Economic internal rate of return equals 47%
Net present value of benefits using 12% discount rate is $219 million
31 Revenue used as a proxy for economic benefits
32 Excludes depreciation and costs converted to economic costs using a conversion factor of 0.8



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section    Covenant   Present    Original              Revised                    Description of covenant                        Comments
Type        status    Fulfilmnent   Fulfilment
date         Date
Guarantee      2.04         12              NC                                   The Guarantor shall furnish the results of its annual review and
recommendations regarding the implementation of its
telecommunications policies and seek the Bank's comments.
Loan           4.01 (a)                     C                                    The Borrower will maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition.
4.01 (b) (i)  I              C                                   The Borrower shall have its records, accounts and financial
statements and those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
4.01 (b)    I                C                                   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)                       Z
(ii)                                                             months after the end of each year: (A) certified audited copies
of the financial statements and Special Account; and (B) the
auditor's report.
4.01 (b)    I                C                                   The Borrower will provide to the Bank other information
(iii)                                                            concerning records, accounts, financial statements, and audit
requested by the Bank.
Project        3.05         1               NC                                  Each year until the completion of the Project, PLDT shall: (a)    Bank did not
jointly carry out with the Bank a review of its investment  request a review
program for the succeeding five (5) years, and its investments
for the preceding two (2) years; and (b) adopt the
recommendations arising from these reviews.
3.06        9                C                                   PLDT shall: (a) prepare annually a comparative analysis of its
actual performance against its operational targets; (b) fumish
the analysis to the Bank for review; and (c) implement the
mutually acceptable recommendations.



Agreement    Section        Covenant    Present        Original       Revised                      Description of covenant                         Comments
Type        status     Fulfilment   Fulfilment
date          Date
4.01 (a)     I                C                                     PLDT will maintain separate records and accounts adequate to
reflect its operations and financial condition.
4.01 (b) (i)   I              C                                     PLDT will have its records, accounts and financial statements
for each year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles.by independent auditors.
4.01 (b)     I                C                                     PLDT will furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
(ii)                                                                after the end of each year: (A) certified audited copies of its
financial statements for the year; and (B) the auditors report in
the detail requested by the Bank.
4.01 (b)     I                C                                     PLDT will furnish to the Bank such other information
(iii)                                                               concerning records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as the Bank may request.
4.02 (a)     I               Not                                    For all expenditures to which withdrawals from the Loan     No withdrawals
applicable                               Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,   from the loan
PLDT shall; (i) maintain records and accounts reflecting the  account were made
expenditures; (ii) ensure that all expense records be retained  on the basis of
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit  statements of
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the    expenditures.
Loan Account was made; and (iii) enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
4.02 (b) (i)  I              Not                                    PLDT will have its records, accounts and financial statements
applicable                               for each year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors.
4.02 (b)     !               Not                                    PLDT will furnish to the not later than six (6) months after the
(ii)                      applicable                                end of each year the auditors report, including a separate
opinion by the auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
4.02 (b)     I               Not                                    PLDT will furnish to the Bank other information concerning



Agreement    Section       Covenant    Present    Original          Revised                     Description of covenant                        Comments
Type        status     Fulfilment   Fulfilment
date          Date
(iii)                     applicable                             records and accounts and their audit as the Bank requests.
4.03 (a)    2                C                                    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLDT shall earn, for
each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending December 31,
1992, an annual return of not less than eight (8) percent of the
average current net value of PLDT's fixed assets in operation.
4.04 (a)    2                C                                    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLDT shall not incur
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of PLDT's revenues and
expenditures shows that PLDT's estimated net revenues for
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall,
be at least 1. I time PLDT's estimated debt service requirements
in such year on all debt of PLDT including the debt to be
incurred.
Schedule    5               CD       June 30,      August 1995   By June 30, 1993, PLDT will employ management consultants
(11)                                 1993                         whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Covenant types                                                      Present status
1= Accounts/audits
2= Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries      C= covenant complied with
3= Flow and utilisation of project funds                            CD= complied with after delay
4= Counterpart funding                                              CP= complied with partially
5=  Management aspects of project or executing agency               NC= not complied with
6= Environmental covenants
7=  Involuntary resettlement
8=  Indigenous people
9= Monitoring, review and reporting
10= Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
I I = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12= Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13= Other



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number & title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No significant lack of compliance with Bank
operational manual statements observed.



28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff inputs
Stage of project cycle             Planned                   Actual
Weeks       US$'000       Weeks       US$'OOO
Preparation to appraisal            n.a                      51.9         145.8
Appraisal                           n.a                      42.2         125.5
Negotiations through Board          n.a                      37.2         114.4
approval
Supervision                        62.0                      70.6         234.7
Completion                          14.5        30.0          4.3          6.9
Source: COS Report No. COSR20



29
Table 13: Baink Resources: Missions
Performance
Specialized    Ratings
Stage of Project cycle  MontWl   No of    Days in   staff skills    IP  DO      Types of problems
year    persons    ireld   represented
/a
Preparation        7/90        3        17    TE, FA, RS   n.a.   n.a.   Identification of an
acceptable conduit for
channeling loan proceeds to
PLDT.
Appraisal          11/90       4        15    TE,FA, RS,   n.a.   n.a.    Bank loan would be made to
EC                          DBP, which in turn would
onlend the proceeds to
PLDT in accordance with
onlending agreement
acceptable to the Bank.
Post-appraisal     8/91        2         8     FA, TE       n.a.   n.a.    Seek final agreement from
Government, DBP and
PLDT on onlending
arrangements and conditions
for negotiating.
Pre-negotiations   3/92        1         9     TE           n.a.   n.a.    Final onlending
arrangements are still under
discussion.
Supervision 1      8/92        2        10    FA, TE        no     no
590    590
Supervision 2      5/93        2        19    FA, TE        2       1      Preparation and issue of
procurement documents and
appointment of management
consultants.
Supervision 3      11/93       3        20    TE, FA        I       I      Bank has been informed
verbally by Government that
it is considering canceling
loan. PLDT has not yet hired
project management
consultants.
Supervision 4      4/94        1         8     TE           2       1      PLDT and Government
reaffirmed their commit-
ment to PLDT project loan.
PLDT has not yet hired
project management
consultants. Delays in
procurement.
Supervision 5      11/94       2         10    TE, RS       S       S      Delays in hiring project
management consultants and
preparation of bidding
documents.



30
Performance
Specialized      Ratings
Stage of Project cycle  Month/    No of     Days in    staff skills    IP      DO          Types of problems
year     persons     field    represented /a
Supervision 6            7/95          1         4      TE             S        U       Disbursements are 18
months behind schedule as a
result of delayed
procurement. Slow
preparation of bidding
documents.
Supervision 7            3/96          2         13     TE             S       S        Disbursements are about 24
(Mid-term review)                                                                       months behind schedule.
Slow preparation of bidding
documents.
Supervision 8            10/96         1          3     TE             S       S        PLDT has requested through
the Borrower to cancel the
undrawn balance of the loan
as a result of PLDT's ability
to obtain debt financing at
lower rates.
ICR                      12/97         1         12     FA             U       U        DBP and PLDT will each
prepare their contribution to
the ICR.
a/ Specialized staff skills: TE= Telecom. Engineer; FA= Financial Analyst; RS=Regulatory Specialist;
EC=Economist



31
APPENDIX A
PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 35230-PH)
Project Completion Mission
Aide Memoire
1. INTRODUCTION
A Bank team comprising Messrs L Rodaje (Operations Officer) and John Cameron (Consultant)
carried out a project completion mission from December 8 to 19, 1997 and a follow-up visit on
March 23, 1998. The purpose of these missions was to collect and discuss relevant data for the
Telephone System Expansion Project and to prepare the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR). The team wishes to thank the Development Bank of the Philippines (the borrower), and
Philippines Long Distance Telephone Company (the beneficiary) for their cooperation during the
missions.
This aide memoire records the agreemenits reached between the Bank and the borrower and
beneficiary of Loan 35230-PH for the Telephone System Expansion Project.
2. BACKGROUND
In October 1992 the Bank's Board of Directors approved a loan of $134 million for a Telephone
System Expansion Project to the borrower which agreed to on-lend the funds to the beneficiary to
undertake works and procure equipment and consultancy services under the project. The
objectives of the project were to: (i) increase telephone penetration and leased line facilities in
the beneficiaries service area with an emphasis on provincial development; and (ii) improve the
beneficiaries quality of service and efficiency. The closing date for the loan was December 31,
1998.
On September 3, 1996 the beneficiary advised the borrower that it intended to cancel the
undrawn balance of the loan amounting to [approximately] $98.7 million and this decision was
conveyed to the Bank by the borrower in a letter dated September 9, 1996. The loan was
cancelled effective May 1, 1997.
Under the project implementation arrangements the beneficiary was to fund certain inputs into
the project to the value of $154 million to bring the total value of the project to $288 million. At
the time the Bank was advised that the loan was to be cancelled the beneficiary had signed
contracts for project works and equipment to the value $62.4 million covering switching,
transmission, and data equipment. This infers that only about 22% of the total project
commitment ($288 million) had been coimmitted to goods and works at the time of the decision to
cancel the project. The mission noted that the beneficiary was implementing the components
associated with: (i) provincial telephone expansion; and (ii) leased line facilities but the other
project components had either been cancelled or there had been zero progress with
implementation.



32
3. ACTIONS- Borrower
The mission held discussions with Nelia R Palma (Senior Assistant Vice President) and Emilia
D. Clemente (Senior Manager) from the Development Bank of the Philippines and advised them
of the requirements for the preparation of the ICR. The borrower was provided with the Bank's
guidelines for the client's contribution to the ICR and it was agreed that they would provide their
contribution to the ICR during the week commencing December 22, 1997.
4. ACTIONS- Beneficiary
Discussions were held with Felizardo Dela Merced (Vice President, Engineering Services
Centre), Lani Liamzon (Manager, Toll Planning Division), and Gilda Rebosura (Manager) from
the Philippines Long Distance Telephone Company and the informational requirements and
beneficiary's contributions to the ICR were outlined. The mission had partially completed the
annexure tables to the ICR but key data was missing. The partially completed tables were
provided to the beneficiary and it was agreed that these would be completed by the beneficiary
and forwarded to the Bank.
Other ICR requirements were discussed and it was agreed that the beneficiary would review the
financial and economic analysis in the SAR to determine if the assumptions used in the analysis
were still valid. The mission and beneficiary noted that because the project had only been
partially completed disaggregation of project benefits from the beneficiary's overall investment
program may be difficult to achieve.
The beneficiary reviewed the guidelines for the preparation of the borrower's contribution to the
ICR which were provided by the mission and agreed to complete the required input. The agreed
timetable for the delivery of the beneficiary's contribution to the ICR is as follows:
1.    Review of ICR Tables 1 to 13 as they are to appear in the ICR. Complete any details
which are lacking and check validity of other data. To be completed by the end of the first week
of January 1998.
2.    Draft economic study and draft contribution to ICR to be completed by the end of the
second week of January 1998.
3.    Final signed report to be available by the end of January 1998.
Manila
April 1, 1998



PHILIPPINE - TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (LN - 3523 - PH)
WORLD BANK FINANCED PROJECT
QUARTERLY STATUS REPORT (4th QTR 1997)
OBJECTIVE            PROJECT COMPONENT                            IMPLEMENTATION MEANS                             PROGRESS/MILESTONES                                  STATUS
1. Provincial    a. Provide about 142,800               I. ICB - Supply of new telephone exchange             Bid Invitation                    01/1993 -All exchanges installed & accepted last 1997.
Telephone          lines of telephone exchange           -Alcatel/SEL - (87,600L/13,020 trks)                  Pre Bid Conference               02/12/93
Expansion          equipment for new locations,          -50 Exch., I training Exch., I OMC                    Bid Submission                   04/15/93
Increase           and expansion and replace-                                                                  Evaluation to WB                 07/30/93
telephone          ment of existing exchanges.          P.O. #: F0007898-WB was issued last 10/03/96.          WB no objection (award)          11/01/93
penetration                                                                                                    Notice of Contract award         02/15/94
in key areas                                                                                                   WB no objection (contract)       04/11/94
provincial                                              Bid 1.1 (Supply and Services)                          Contract signed                  05/13/94
areas and                                               Contract Amt.            DEM              20,488,725.00 WB no objection (disbursement)  06/13/94
industrial
estates                                                 2. Price Verification Consultant for direct            WB no objection (negotiate)      03/18/93 -Completed 06/10/94
purchase contracts                                   Bid Invitation to SGS            04/27/93
(1.2A and 1.2B)                                      Bid Submission                   06/03/93
Contract Signed                  01/13/94
vs-ice tu Pocusi               03/04/94
Contract Amt.                US$             21,500.00 SGS Evaluation Result            06/04/94
3. Direct Purchase -                                   WB no objection (RFQ)            05/14/93 -All exchanges ittstalled & accepted last 1996.
Expansion of EWSD Exchange                          Bid Invitation                   03/24/93
-Siemens (41,900L13,873trks)                         Bid Submission                  06/14/93
-20 exchanges                                       WB no objection (Award)          06/29/94
Contract signed                  09/09/94
Bid 1.2A                                               WO no objection (disbursement)   11/28/94
Contract Amt. - supply       US$           4,390,292.46 WB no objection (Amendment                                                                                W
- services         US$            273,712.99 Agreement #1)                      3/7/96
Contract signed (AA#I)            3/26/96
4. Direct Purchase -                                   WB no objection (RFQ)           05/14/93 -All exchanges installed & accepted last 1996.
Expansion of NEAX exchanges                         Bid Invitatton                   05/07/93
- Mitsui/NEC (9,100L/1,1 10trks)                     Bid Submission                   06/15/93
- 4 exchanges                                        WB no objection (Award)          06/29/94
Contract signed                  09/13/94
Bid 1.2B                                              WB no objection (disbursement)    11/28/94
Contract Amt. - supply       US$           1,039,903.00
- services       US$              38,160.00
5. Direct Purchase -                                  WB no objection (RFQ)          09/19/1991 -All exchanges installed & accepted last 1997.
Purchase Order                  04/23/93
Expansion of System 12 Exchanges                    Revised Purchase Order           05/30/94
- Alcatel/SEL (4.200L)                               WB no objection (disbursement)   08/16/94
- 2 exchaiiges
Bid I 2C
Contract Amt. -supply      DEM              949,482.00
_________________                                                -secvitee        DEM              347,575.0Y                            .                                   I _________________________________CSD M3___7_ 



PHILIPPINE - TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (LN - 3523 - PH)
WORLD BANK FINANCED PROJECT
QUARTERLY STATUS REPORT (4th QTR 1997)
OBJECTIVE             PROJECT COMPONENT                            IMPLEMENTATION MEANS                              PROGRESS/MILESTONES                                   STATUS
-Completed last 1997.
6. Buildings and sites for switching and
Transmission equipment
b. Provide appropriate outside plant to  I. Prequalification of Outside                       WB no objection                   02/08/93 - Completed last 1994.
connect subscribers and include some  Plant Contractors                                                                                  6 Contractors prequalified.
fiber optic cables
2. Outside Plant                                        WB no objection (RFQ)            07/09/93 -Installation completed last February, 1998.
- Alcatel Cable (119,000 ea prs)                     Bid Invitation                    01/14/94
Bid Submission                   03130/94
Bid 1.3 (supply and services)                           WB no objection (award)          08/26/94
Contract Amt.                                           Notice of contract award         09/28/94
-foreign component           US$          21,045,705.74 Contract signed                   12/08/94
-local component              PhP        231,764,788.00 WB no objection(disbursement)    04/15195
3. ICB - Domestic Fiber Optic Network for               WB no objection (Proj. Add')       1/11/96
Loop I                                               WB no objection (RFQ)               5/3/96 - Installation to be completed in July, 1998.
Bid I.3A                                                Bid Invitation                    6/24/96
Contract Amt.                US$            6,492,236.19 Contract Signed                    5/8/97
PhP         212,014,012.00
4. OSP for Calamba(5400 prs.),Sta. Rosa(7200 prs)       WB no objection in
Molino(7200 prs.), Oroquieta(5 100 prs)               principle (Proj. Add'I)           3/27/96 -Deferred
Zamboanga(52000prs.)
Bid 1.3B
Estimated Amt.               US$                   0.00
c. Provide long distance, inter-office, and   I. ICB-Point-to-Point Digital radio and         WB no objection (RFQ)             05/14/93
subscriber link transmission equipment    Multiplex Equipment                               Bid Invitation                    05/31/93 -Installation completed & accepted
- Siemens (43 links)                                  Bid Submission                    08/31/93  last September, 1997.
Evaluation Report to WB          04/05/94
WB No Objection (Award)          05/03194
Bid I.4A                                                Notice of contract award         07/05/94
Contract Amt,               DEM            7,077,716.00 Contract signed                  09/09/94
Change order was effected due to replacement of 2 GHz   WB no objection (Contract                 -Installation completed & accepted
radio systems by 7 GHz radio systems (cost addition).   Amendment)                       09/29/94 last September, 1997.
Bid 1.4A   Amendment - I                               Contract amendment signed         11/28/94
Revised Contract Amt.       DEM            7,704,828.00 WB no objection (disbursement)   01/10/95
Bid 1.4A  Supplemental Agreement                       WB no objection (supplemental       8/2/96 - Installation to be completed 1998.
Contract Amt.             US$               1,797,476.00 agreement)



PHILIPPINE - TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (LN - 3523 - PH)
WORLD BANK FINANCED PROJECT
QUARTERLY STATUS REPORT (4th QTR 1997)
OBJECTIVE            PROJECT COMPONENT                            IMPLEMENTATION MEANS                             PROGRESS/MILESTONES                                  STATUS
2. ICB Point-to-Multipoint digital                    WB no objection (RFQ)               -    - Canceled under this project package.
telephone radio equipment (MRTS).                   Bid Invitation                    07/31/93  Project requirements to utilize VSAT
Buy antenna through international                   Bids recalled                     09/21/93  Technology on a separate project / financing
shopping.                                                                                       package.
Bid 1.4B                                                                                        - Installation completed 1997.
Estimate Amt.               US$                   0OM
3. ICB Antenna Systems for Point-to-Point             WB no objection (RFQ)             05/14193 -Installation completed & accepted
Transmission systems                                 Bid Invitation                   05/31/93  last September, 1997.
-Gabriel Electronics (97 antennas)                   Bid Submission                   08/3 /93
Evaluation Report to WB          04/05/94
WB No Objection (Award)          05/03/94
Notice of Contract Award         M9/20/94
Bid 1.4C                                               WB no objection (contract)       11/14/94
Contract Am.-supply          US$           1,1 13,232.37 Contract signed                1l/21/94
-services         US$               7,300.00 WB no obiection (disbursement)   12/20/94
Bid I.4C    Amendment -I
- Change order was effected due to alteration in antenna  WB no objection (Contract             -Installation completed & accepted
diameters and polarities (71inks): change in transmission  Amendment                  03/15/95  last September, 1997.                                      W
requirement (16 sites); cost deletion.               Amendment Agreement signed       05/12/95                                                  .           t
Contract Amt.-supply         US$           1,084,327.12 WB No objection -AA
-services         US$               7,300.00  (disbursement)                 06/29/95
- Additional antennas, test eqpt. related parts & accessories.
Bid I .4C   Supplemental Agreement                                                              -Awaiting construction of towers
Contract Amt.                US$            475,216.90 WB no objection (supplemental      8/2/96  prior to installation of antennas.
agreement)                               - Installation to be completed 1998.
4. ICB Inter-Office transmission equipment             WB no objection (RFQ)            05/14/93
-Siemens (23 links)                                  Bid Invitation                   06130/93 - Contpleted as of November, 1997.
Bid Submission                   09/30/93
Evaluation Report to WB          04105/94
WB No Objection (Award)          05/03/94
Notice of contract award         07/04/94
Bid I.4D                                              Contract sigited                  09/09/94
Contract Amt.               DEM            1,468,746.00 WB no obection (disbursement)   12/08/94
- Cancelled under this project package.
5. Direct Purchase - Expansion of existing             Bid Invitation                   07/30/93  Project requirements to utilize VSAT
radio systems                                        Bid Submission                   09/1 1/93  Technology on a separate projecc /
Bid i.4F                                                                                          financing package.
______________ _  __________ Estimated Amt.      US$           0,000,000.00                                         I - Installation completed 1997.
Pre-feasibility study
6. ICB-Transmission Systems for Regions                submitted                          Jan-95 -Canceled, VSAT technology to be used.
I & 11                                              WB no objection(Project Addt'l.)    03/07/95 - Installation to be completed 1999.
- itcludes radio equipment antennas,                 WB no objection(RFQ)              7/11/96



PHILIPPINE - TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (LN - 3523 - PH)
WORLD BANK FINANCED PROJECT
QUARTERLY STATUS REPORT (4th QTR 1997)
OBJECTIVE             PROJECT COMPONENI'                           IMPLEMENTATION MEANS                              PROGRESS/MILESTONES                                   STATUS
de power generator sets anid towers                 Board Approval date                6/27/97
Bid 1.4G
Estimated Amt.               US$           6,504,335.93
d. Associated power eqiipntent         I. ICB - Generator Sets                                WB no objection (RFQ)             01/28/93 - Installation cotnpleted & accepted
Bid Invitation                   05/17/93  last December, 1996.
Bid Submission                   07/15/93
WB No Objection (Award)           10/05/93
Notice of contract award         03/02/94
Bid invitation (re-issued)       10/19/94
Bid Addendunm No. I              11/18/94
Bid Submission                   12/05/94
WB no objection (re-award)       01/23/95
Bid 1.7                                                Notice of Contract Award          02/20/95
Contract Amt.                 US$            681i069.00 Contract sigited                 06/06/95
WB no objection (disbursement)     8/10/95
2. ICB - DC Power Plant for transmission                                                          - Canceled
Bid 1.10                                                                                           DC power plants already available .
Estimated Amt.               US$           0,000,000.00
11. Public          Provide about 97 public calling office   1. Direct Purchase - CMTS tertninals                                                          - Cancelled under this project package
Call             (PCO's) in currently unserved         Bid 1.4E                                                                                           as CMTS arrangement is not technically
Offices           municipalities in 10 provinces.                                                                                                         feasible. However, PLDT pushed
through with the project using VSAT
technology under separate project /
financing package.
Estimated Amt.               USS           0,000,000.0C                                           - Installation completed 1997.
111. Interconnection    Interconnect six (6) isolated exch.  1. Interconnection to be provided through point-to-point                                      - Canceled under this project package since
managed by goverment and other         radio.                                                                                          microwave arrangement is very expensive.
iidependetit operators to                                                                                                              However, PLDT provided interconnection
PLDT's toll network.                                                                                                                   using VSAT facilities under separate project /
financing package.
- Installation completed 1996.
IV. Metro Manila    a. Provision of outside plant to connect                                                                                               - Canceled; Advanced by PLDT under its X5C
Outside Plant    about 41,000 new customers utilizing                                                                                                    project. Investigation revealed that the project
Service          more completely the local exchange                                                                                                      cost estinsate already excluded this item
switch capacity available in Metro
Manila area                                                    US$              0,000,000.00n



PHILIPPINE - TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (LN - 3523 - PH)
WORLD BANK FINANCED PROJECT
QUARTERLY STATUS REPORT (4th QTR 1997)
OBJECTIVE            PROJECT COMPONENT                           IMPLEMENTATION MEANS                             PROGRESS/MILESTONES                                  STATUS
V. Leased Line     a. Leased line data service to be   I. Direct Purchase-Expansion of existing               WB no objection (award)          12/16/93
Facilities       provided in Metro Manila and 20 provinc   Datapac/Datakit                                 Bid Invitation                   02/02/94 -Installation completed last 1996.
cities                               -PDNC                                                Bid Submission                   02/15/94
Contract Signed                  02/10/95
Bid 1.SA(Supply)                                      WB no objection (disbursement)    03/14/95
Contract Amt.               US$             756,416.00
2. Direct Purchase - Expansion of existing            WB no objection (award)           12/16/93 -Installation completed & accepted
Datapac/EWSP                                        Bid Invitation                   02/02/94  last December,1995.
-Siemens                                             Bid Submission                   02/15/94
Bid l.5B (Supply and Services)                        Contract signed                  02/10/95
Contract Amt.                US$           1,095,854.00 WB no objection (disbursement)  03/14/95
3. Direct Purchase - Expansion of existing            WB no objection (award)           12/16/93 -Installation completed & accepted
Fiber net                                           Bid Invitation                   02/02/94  last November, 1995 (IAC).
- ASCOM Timeplex thru lntex Datacom Systems          Bid Submission                   02/15/94
Purchase Order issued            11/21/94
Bid l.5C                                              Revised P. O. issued             01/30/95
Contract Amt.               US$             625,532.00 WB no objection (disbursement)  03/14/95
4. ICB - Network Access Device for
DataPac/Datakit Network                                                                       - Canceled.
Bid l.5D1
Contract Amt.               US$                   0.00                                                                                                       _t
5. ICB - High Speed Baseband Modems                   WB no objection (RFQ)            01/24/95 -Installation completed & accepted
Bid Invitation                  02/22/95  last September, 1996.
Bid I.SE                                             Bid Submission                   03/15/95
Estimated Amt.              US$             305,342.00 WB no objection (Award)          12/21/95
6. ICB - Wideband Multi-ServiceNans III               WB no objection (RFQ)             9/26/95 - Installation to be completed by 1999.
Network                                              Bid Invitation                   10/30/95
Bid Submission                   12/11/95
Bid 1.5F                                              WB no objection (award)            8/8/96
Estimated Amt.              US$           13,925,562.00
7. ICB - Cross connect eqpt.                          WB no objection (Addt'l project)    03/07/95 - Cancelled; PLDT to procure the equipment
for Diginet                                                                                   under separate project / financing package.
Bid 1.5G
Estimated Amt.              USS                   0.00



PHILIPPINE - TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (LN - 3523 - PH)
WORLD BANK FINANCED PROJECT
QUARTERLY STATUS REPORT (4th QTR 1997)
OBJECTIVE             PROJECT COMPONENT                             IMPLEMENTATION MEANS                               PROGRESS/MILESTONES                                   STATUS
Improve PLDT's   a. Provision of transmission maintenance   1. ICB - Transmission Supervisory System                                                         -Pre-implementation activities on-going, hand-in-
quality of          system to improve PLDT's inter-exchang(  Equipment (SCADA) for backbone,                                                                  hand with PLDT's Integrated TMN Project.
service and         circuit operation and maintenance       spur station, Metro Manila IOT and FITL                                                          - Expected completion by 1999.
efficiency          performance                             (Replace previous TMS item)
Bid 1.6
Estimated Amt.               US$            8,900,000.00
-Completed last 1996.
b. Provision of training equipment    International and local shopping of training
for PLDT                            equipment
Bid 1.8
Contracted Amt.               PhP           3,643,331.00
c. Strengthen PLDT's program managemen 1. Project Management                                   WB no objection (RFP)              12119/94 -Phases I & 11 - Completed last 1995.
capacities                                                                                   Bid Invitation                     12t23/94
Bid Submission                    02/24/95 Phase III - In-progress.
Bid 1.9A  Phase I & 11                                  Evaluation Report to WB           06/02/95            expected completion is 1999.
Contract Amt.               CAD               150,000.00 WB no objection (Award)          06/14/95
Phase III                                       Notice of Contract Award          06/22/95
Contract Amt.              CAD                386,312.00 Contract signed                  08/11/95
(plus reimbursible expenses)                            WB no objection (disbursement)     9/1 1/95
Phase III Extension                             Memorandum of Agreement            3/25/96
Contract Amt.                CAD              109,551.50 Amendment Agreement # I signed     4/17/97
2. Consultancy for Transmission Supervisory System      Ist Bid Invitation                  49/96                                                                   00
2nd Bid Invitation                 4/23/96 - Deferred.
Bid 1.9B                                                Bid Submission                     4/30/96
Evaluation Report to WB             6/3/96
WB no objection to award            6/3/96
Notice of Contract award            6J3/96
l_________                            | lEstinated Anm.              USS              100,000.00 



39
APPENDIX B
PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 35230-PH)
BENEFICIARY CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The beneficiary sent its final contribution to the Bank in April 1998, comprising a report,
accompanying tables, and a Quarterly Status Report of Project Implementation as of the 40
Quarter 1997. The information provided in the beneficiary's tables was incorporated into the
Statistical tables in Part II. The report.and Quarterly Status Report is attached hereto.



40
PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 35230-PH)
A.  BACKGROUND
On April 23, 1993, the Phil. Long Distance Telephone Co. (PLDT) entered into a Project
Agreement with the World Bank (WB/IBRD), being beneficiary to the US$134.0 Million
Loan Agreement between the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and WB. By
channeling a substantial official loan to PLDT which is a private entity, this has created a
precedent-setting loan for the Philippines' telecommunications sector.
Under the Project Agreement, PLDT shall utilize the fund to finance priority projects
that have been designed to provide improved telecom facilities, mostly in provincial
areas which the government has identified as having major economic importance. To
date, majority of the projects were already completed, as shown in the attached Progress
Status Monitoring Report in Annex A. The closing date of the loan is December 31,
1998.
However, last September 3, 1996, PLDT has notified the DBP of its intention to forego
withdrawal of the undistributed balance amounting to US$96.98 Million. Given the
improved access to and the decreasing cost of alternative financing, as well as the
presence of an increasingly competitive environment, PLDT realized that it is to their
best interest to cancel the remaining loan. Subsequently, DBP has advised WB of this
intention in a letter dated September 9, 1996. The loan balance was cancelled effective
May 01, 1997.
Although the cancellation of the loan balance has been effected, PLDT has maintained
its commitment to pursue the completion of these projects.
In compliance with the requirement of the World Bank, PLDT has prepared this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), to assess the realization of the original project
objectives and benefits set forth in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR - issued
August 14, 1992) and to evaluate the performance of both PLDT and WB during the
evolution and implementation of these projects.
B.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
As stated in the SAR, the proposed projects in general will enable PLDT to advance its
plans for implementing a variety of customer and operating ifacilities needed urgently to
meet demand in selected areas that the government has envisioned to have strategic
importance for national economic development. The specific objectives of the projects
are:
(a) Increase the telephone penetration and leased line facilities in PLDT's service areas,
with emphasis on provincial development, and;



41
(b) Improve PLDT's quality of service and increase operational efficiency.
The benefits of these projects are expected to accrue to all sectors of the community
through improved access to telephone facilities and improved network quality. Because
the project aims to partly correct the imbalance in services between major cities and rural
communities, maximum benefit is likely to accrue to private- businesses and the public as
well, where communication facilities will be markedly improved. Mostly, these are in
provincial areas recognized by the government as offering high economic returns from
investment in infrastructure. In these areas, access to modem telecommunications
services will help stimulate growth and investments, as well as increase the efficiency of
market systems between communities. Also, the provision of new facilities particularly
to industrial estates will help attract the development of secondary industries which are
crucial to the country's economy. Existing telephone services will also benefit from the
increase in access to thousands of new working telephone lines; the interconnection of
other non-PLDT exchanges to the national telephone network; and the expected
improvements in the network and operator performance quality resulting from PLDT's
overall development program, of which, these proposed projects are a part.
The provision of basic telephone lines to rural communities will offer them more
efficient use of high cost transportation services, improved access to market information
and easy linkage to government's public oriented services, especially medical and
emergency relief during exigencies.
The government will also benefit, first as a user of telecommunication services and
second, through increased transfers from the telecom sector as a result of increased
revenue generation in the form of taxes, and more efficient use of sector resources.
As contained in the SAR, the proposed projects are essentially made up of the following
components:
(1) Expansion and rehabilitation of telephone services in provincial areas through the
provision of 133,100 digital lines of exchange equipment.
(2) Provision of about 97 public calling offices (PCOs) in unserved municipalities in 10
provinces.
(3) Interconnection of 6 isolated exchanges managed by the government and other
independent operators with PLD1"s toll network thereby providing them with access
to national and international services.
(4) Provision of complementary outside plant facilities to optimize utilization of
available exchange capacities of Metro Manila local exchanges to connect 41,000
new subscribers.
(5) Provision of special circuits in Metro Manila area and 20 provincial cities, for leased
voice and data applications.
(6) Provision of a transmission main:enance system to improve PLDT's operations and
maintenance performance.



42
(7) Provision of simulation and miscellaneous training equipment to maintain PLDT's
training facilities at an acceptable level of performance.
(8) Commission consultancy services to help strengthen PLDT's program management
capabilities.
In the course of implementing these projects, several revisions from the original project
details were made. These changes, which had prior "no objection" clearances from WB,
are highlighted as follows:
a) Increase in the provision of digital lines from 133,100 to 142,800 lines due to
substantial cost savings as a result of competitive prices obtained through
international competitive bidding;
b) Change in the choice of technology from CMTS to VSAT in providing Public
Calling Offices (PCOs) as concluded after the detailed engineering evaluation;
c) Interconnection of non-PLDT exchanges using VSAT instead of the more expensive
microwave network system;
d) Advanced provisioning of Metro Manila outside plant facilities under the X5C
Program Package.
Other causes of revisions were update in market forecasts, necessary re-alignment with
other PLDT projects, etc. These changes however, did not pose substantial deviation in
the project objectives as they still cover nearly the same areas and services defined in the
original project line-up.
Annex B shows the various Project Components and Implementation Status.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES FOR COMPLETED PROJECTS
It is quite apparent that the benefits obtained from completed projects as originally
envisioned have been well achieved, as evidenced by the extensive use of the expanded
telephone facilities in the affected provincial areas.
The improved access to modern telecommunications services and network quality is now
being enjoyed by the private businesses and entities, the public, and the government as
well. Specifically elated are the developers/proponents of the industrial estates. The
availability of adequate modern telecom facilities have greatly favored them to
successfully attract more locators/investors to come-in.  This has resulted to the
development of many secondary industries, the outcome of which is cascading positive
effect to the country's over-all economy.
Isolated and remote communities, and users from other non-PLDT exchanges have also
greatly  benefited  to  getting  access to  PLDT's   national and  international
telecommunications network.



43
In conclusion, the project objectives originally set forth have been satisfactorily
achieved. Such accomplishments have immensely contributed to the national economic
development of the country.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TPHE PROJECTS
Several internal and external deterrent factors have been identified to have greatly
contributed to the delays in the implementation of the projects.
Pre-Implementation Phase
(a) Project cycle from identification, project feasibility , appraisals and
approvals took so long. P'LDT's lack of experience with the Bank's policies
and procedures, being first timer, led to delays at different stages. Process
consumed nearly four (4) years from identification to loan signing.
(b) Being a private sector availing of ODA funds, PLDT experienced difficulties
in preparing voluminous documents required to obtain clearances from ICC
and NEDA.
(c) Due to unclear guidelines for private firms availing of ODA loans,
regulatory and administrative approvals by the government required longer
processing time.
I. Implementation Phase
(a) Preparation of bidding documents particularly during the initial phases
consumed much time since these have to be patterned exactly after WB Bid
Documents/ Procurement Guidelines.
(b) Physical transmittal of bid documents to WB for prior "no objection
clearance" before release caused additional delays in the issuance of the
tenders. In addition, bid documents approvals by WB took longer than
expected.
(c) Stringent procedures even, for some minor contract amendments
(d) Very lean project procurement and implementation staff who are
knowledgeable in the Bank's policies and procedures, document preparations
and appraisals.
(e) Dependencies of some project components on other PLDT program
packages.
(f) Late advice of drawdowns/payments from the loan. PLDT usually received
the advice from World Bank thru DBP three (3) to four (4) weeks after the
actual date of drawdowns/payments.



44
(g) Delayed advice to PLDT that a commitment letter has been issued by World
Bank to the correspondent bank.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
As PLDT proceeds with the completion of the remaining uncompleted project
components, the sustainability of this project package can be likely assured. In addition,
the benefits of the projects are expected to be further maximized and multiplied as they
are now being aligned with the ongoing expansion programs of the company. Attaining
sustainability however, is dependent on the continuing realization of PLDT's programs
which directly support these project objectives.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance during project identification is satisfactory. It was able to
successfully monitor PLDT to strictly focus on developing service in less profitable
areas but with high government priority for national economic development, which is the
main subject of the Project Agreement.
The Bank's assistance in the preparation and appraisal can be rated as deficient. It has
failed to stress the importance of early readying of procurement schedules and
monitoring indicators to assist in the measurement of progress' efficiency. Considering
PLDT's lack of experience with the Bank's policies and procedures, the degree of the
Bank's involvement can be disputed as it allowed PLDT to be caught impeded in
delivering the specific requirements of the Bank. Only after several "trial and errors" did
the Bank conducted seminar on procurement procedures, which resulted to the rules
being made clearer to PLDT. In addition, a number of superfluous supplementary
documents were required by the Bank during its conduct of due diligence and appraisal.
The Bank's performance in managing/supervising the project implementation can be
rated as satisfactory. During this stage, the Bank showed some flexibility in approving
needed modifications such as request for loan extension, clarification on several bidding
issues, contract amendments, etc.   Sufficient attention  was paid to address
implementation problems immediately. Loan covenants were enforced and remedies if
needed, were exercised. Regular supervision missions were conducted to ensure that
implementation progresses smoothly. However, the Bank needs improvement in
handling the observed deficiencies under sub-items (b), (c), (f) and (g) of item D to help
expedite the process.
G.    BENEFICIARY'S PERFORMANCE
PLDT's performance during the stages of project identification and preparation can
generally be rated as satisfactory. As a first timer, PLDT experienced complexities in
preparing the specific documentation required by the Bank thereby requiring time
extensions. PLDT was also overwhelmed by the extensive paper works it needed to
accomplish to obtain regulatory and administrative approvals from the government.



45
Nevertheless, the staff involved have exerted extra ordinary efforts to perform in
accordance with the Bank's expectations.
PLDT's performance during the implementation phase can likewise be rated as
satisfactory. Although it has experienced hurdles during the initial phases of bid
preparations/evaluations and needed extra lead time to fulfill the Bank's requirements,
yet it still manifested its commitmeni: to the timely completion of the projects. Mindful
of the cascading effect of delays as far as the original target schedules are concerned, the
personnel involved did the best they could to hasten the implementation. Adequate
project monitoring and evaluation on the performance of both PLDT and its contractors
were conducted to strictly adhere the completion dates agreed upon in the contracts.
In terms of covenant compliance, P'LDT can be rated as highly satisfactory. PLDT
observed rigorously the Bank's terms and made sure that no significant lack of
compliance was committed.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Taking into account the delays encountered from project evolution to implementation,
overall, the project outcome can still be considered satisfactory. The outlined project
objectives and benefits are already visible for all the completed project components.
These were already integrated into PLDT's overall network, and will be maintained by
PLDT's regular operations and maintenance.
As PLDT pushes through with the implementation of the remaining project components
plus its ongoing expansion programs, it becomes apparent that the project objectives
will be achieved completely as planned.
I.    FUTURE OPERATION
PLDT assures that it will maintain the facilities provided under this project on standard
operating conditions. Being substantially useful, PLDT will never allow these assets to
fall into disrepair.
In the operation and maintenance of iits facilities, PLDT observes general guidelines and
procedures differently for each network facility/component. It has established corporate
Systems Practices to ensure nationwide compliance.  In addition, Operation and
Maintenance (O&M) manuals and technical references are being maintained in every
station. The company continuously invests into various training programs to provide
regular trainings to its 0 & M personnel, to make them self-sufficient and independent in
carrying out the operations and maintenance facets of PLDT's network.



46
APPENDIX C
PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 35230-PH)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The borrower sent its final contribution to the Bank in December 1997, comprising a
report which is attached hereto.



47
PHI'LIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 35230-PH)
Development Bank of the Philippines
Implementation Completion Report
On the US$134.0 million Syndicated Loan relent to
The Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Problems Related to Documentation
1.    Exceeding the Single Borrower's Limit
Tranche B portion of the US$ 134.0 million loan or US$ 89.0 million was lent by DBP to a
syndicate of four banks for on-lending to PLDT. One of the banks was the Union Bank of the
Philippines (Union Bank) with a participation of $US 9.0 million. Union Bank, aside from said
loan, was also active in tapping DBP's wholesale facility. At that time, once its applications
under said facility were favourably considered and drawdowns were made simultaneously with
availments of the $US 134 million loan, it will exceed DBP's SBL. The implementation of the
merger of Union Bank with another cornmercial bank, the International Corporate Bank
(Interbank), which was also active in availing of the wholesale funds of DBP further posed a
problem.
To save the syndicate, DBP on 15 September 1993 requested the approval of the Central
Monetary Authority of the Bangko Sentaral ng Pilipinas (DSP), the governing authority of all
banks in the Philippines, to exclude the $US 9 million loan when applying the SBL rule for the
following reasons.
A     While the structure of the $US 9 million resembled that of a wholesale
transaction because the funds pass through participating financial institutions, it was
very different from other DBP wholesale funds in the sense that all loan proceeds would
be relent/channeled exclusively to a special project, i.e. the telephone expansion system
of PLDT which was identified and approved by IBRD.
B     The PLDT program was consistent with the development plans and strategies of
the Department of Transportation and Communications for the telecommunications
sector, which was of strategic importance to the overall national development. It
supported the government's regional development programs involving industrial estates
and livelihood centres. The programr was expected to contribute to the development of
rural municipalities through the provision of telephone services.
The above request, however, was denied on December 2 1993.
In view of the denial, DBP and Union Bank explored another alternative so that the latter can
continue to avail of its credit line with DBP. DBP's Wholesale Group came up with the idea of
securitizing any amount in excess of DBP's SBL. But, unfortunately, such a move was not



48
feasible at that time. Hence, on 6 June 1994 DBP informed Union Bank that it has been
constrained to release it from the syndicate. On June 24 1994, the Bank requested Union Bank's
conformity to the release.
2.    Finding a Substitute Bank for Union Bank
DBP had to find a substitute Bank willing to accede to the rights of Union Bank to the $US 134
million loan. Several banks were invited on March 8 1994 and most of these responded
positively.
The Rizal Commercial Banking Corp (RCBC) was finally chosen by DBP to assume the rights of
Union Bank. Accordingly, on July 25 1994, PLDT and the other members of the syndicate were
informed of the acceptance by RCBC to take in Union Bank's participation under the same terms
and conditions agreed upon by the original members of the consortium. DBP also requested their
conformity to the participation by RCBC and to review the proposed amendments to be made in
the Syndicate Loan Agreement and the Participation Loan and Agency Agreement.
3.    Amending the Loan Documents
Finally, the execution copies of the Amendment to the Participation Loan and Agency
Agreement incorporating the release of the Union Bank from the syndicate and the participation
of RCBC to the extent of $US9 million as replacement for Union Bank was routed to PLDT and
the members of the consortium for execution.
The World Bank was informed of the changes in the syndicate on September 22 1994 and copies
of the duly executed documents amending the Syndicate Loan Agreement and the Participation
Loan and Agency Agreement submitted.
4.    Delay in securing the DBP Final Approval of the $US 134 Million Loan
Pursuant to section 2.05 (a) of the Loan Agreement dated April 23, 1993 between the World
Bank and DBP and section 3.02 of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, DBP started accruing commitment fee on June 22, 1993 or sixty days after the date
of the signing of the said agreement. Such commitment fee was supposed to be paid on October
15, 1993.
However, as of such date, the loan has not been declared effective by the World Bank since DBP
submitted to the World Bank for review the DBP Final Approval and the Department of Justice's
Legal Opinion on the $US 134 million loan only on October 12, 1993. Since the loan was not yet
effective, DBP did not pay the commitment fee. It instead inquired from the World Bank
whether the commitment fee was payable on said date notwithstanding the non effectivity of the
loan. DBP also requested that if the commitment fee was indeed due on said date, that it not be
considered in default for non-payment. The World Bank, however, was considerate and charged
the first commitment fee in the next payment date which was April 15 1994.
5.    Double Charging of Gross Receipts tax (GRT)
In the course of documenting the $US 134 million loan it was noted that GRT would be charged
twice on the Tranche B portion of $US 89 million. This was because DBP would lend the $US



49
89 million to four commercial banks and then the latter would relend it to PLDT. In the first step
of lending, that is, DBP to commercial banks, GRT would be charged and again in the relending
by the commercial banks to PLDT. Since all expenses would be for the account of PLDT, it was
not amenable to paying the GRT twice.
At that time, there were talks that the GRT' would be abolished. To save the transaction, DBP
agreed to shoulder the GRT corresponding to one leg of the lending process. Payment would
come from the 1% front end fee that it would collect from PLDT upon initial draw down
amounting to $US 1.34 million. But, if the GRT would be abolished, the entire $US 134 million
would accrue to DBP. To date, the GRT has not been abolished, hence, when the GRT will fall
due, DBP would shoulder one leg of the GRT and PLDT the other leg.
Problems encountered during implementation
Billing statement for amortisation falling due are usually received, at the earliest, two weeks
before due date. There was an instance when it was received just a few days before due date.
This hardly gives DBP a chance to review and validate the billing statement much less prepare its
billing statement to PLDT. PLDT also would appreciate receiving DBP's billing statement
earlier so it can review and validate it.



AUP SECTION



vl " Z>1245    PHILIPPINES                1W
LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE COMPANY
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
..                   S  S' I "                                    A
*       3                                                                                          NEW SPCD RURL NIONANoEs   L OUP 
lie                                                          B 0                        0TA1ANIES
,. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~~E '   G~sI, o,j                               SPC    c9NFcD ANr3Es
\      nO &   *                       .-        (                             G ,                    O   NDUSTEI.LrlTi
A    DKIAL LrESED CrCUiT NODES
\ - Fe,.odo    *          Sex o. M,g.- mi-)                                                     NEW PBuc CALL OFEICESNo.  P.r r
SD  1A,,~      nCAiR | ,4"EiU" \                                                     (3        xONiECuON TO NON - 'LOT
sr . ~ ,,.I. Tomos                                                    *      TOWoL CA-|ASL
E3 13) 13 Z s                                                                       R OqINCE CAI'ILALS
SOUTH CHI OA                     p4                                                                            fOSNC  iONEOAU  5
SEA                                                                                   U LU ZON 
ON rsrl~~~ii4jsZcG^rAe
VITOLETEES 0        100       200 2      0
LUZON                  -                    3    Lit.                                            v. I          PHILIPPINE SEA
TATANGA    MjJtDOR) ).CT A    NrS
I WOCUS           _  W_      VNiI4, AS
-s .-.                          0SUTH CHINA
c'a'  02 N O_i                                      /     9gSt<A
~~~0NAk
Aoh-        "I  C39TRAIme  S.
clc3    Vu              -NWS''  >  0w 
So-
30 Cr                 ,ino 5'.m     
111 C ALUJzo"C.. sUU   Sear
B.&  T--l                      -- ar                                  J/  ksff 
30~~~~A                    d S-  
V~~~~5U                    Xt c_DA7ipwlpNAd0Thdn.df
>  _ _  A 9-d        s I        dW 19*r# ;; _- ToWr
lii~~~on.                   D-c  21_ i>- a~_ lw
q   i  _                  ,,  _ _                                                  eh howwb
Ci    =            S-                                                                                             =-,V 1h. 12 ..dW            h



