I-~~ /\  d.  )                  if/
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M9 T CPORJ ,t  VH   UL>'.'
,ep r t N!.: U'?.14 rH        Tvi4):  (SNP)
1 t] r  NtrLVFiH1j1N4r   FT ypeF F   (        S RFN4        Report No. 9444-PH
AlP,tl hc r  !. f\:]1 7f f ,   i H.
E,: t .  e, 1E9 1,  [-.  c-,r,. : F  - '9~7 5 )  C t  0. :{'     T 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
AUGUST 14, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
East Asia Country Department I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1990)
Currency Unit    8     Philippine Pesos (P)
US$1.00                P 28.0
P 1,000                U.$35.7
P 1              =     100 Centavos (ctvs.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
M4Hz       =       Megahertz (1,000,000 hertz)
GHz                Gigahertz (1,000 megahertz)
km         =       Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASEAN     -       Association of South East Asian Nations
DBP       -       Development Bank of the Philippines
DOTC      -       Department of Transportation and Communications
IBRD      -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       -       International Competitive Bidding
IFC       -       International Finance Corporation
LCB       -       Local Competitive Bidding
NTDP      -       National Telecommunications Development Plan
NTP       -       National Telephone Program
NTC       -       National Telecommunications Commission
OBU       -       Offshore Banking Units
PCO       -       Public Call Office
PLDT      -       Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
TELOF     -       The Government's Telecommunications Off'.ce



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Aorrower:                Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
Guarantor:               Republic of the Philippines
Isnaeficiar:             Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company (PLDT)
Amount:                  US$134 million equivalent
Lending Torm:            Repayable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         DBP would relend the funds to a banking syndicate
that in turn would relend the entire proceeds to PLDT
through separate facilities: (a) the first, of which
DBP would subscribe the entire $35 million, would
include a term of twelve years and a grace period of
four years; and (b) the second, of which each
partitipating Bank would assume the intermediation
risk for its subscribed portion of the remaining $99
million, would include a ten year term and a grace
period of four years. The interest rate applicable
to both facilities would be 3A%X above the Bank's
rate. PLDT would assume the exchange rate risk
between the Philippine peso and the US dollar. From
the spread, the Government would receive a fee of 1X
for guaranteeing the Bank loan, and a second fee of
1X for assuming the cross currency risk between the
US dollar and the other currencies involved in the
Bank loan.
Secondarv Lending:       The float resulting from the differences in
maturities between the Bank loan and the two
relending operations would be made available to the
Government according to terms that mirror those of
the Bank loan, and consequently hold DBP free of
benefit or loss.
Pxojeeq;
Objectives:            The objectives of the proposed project are to (a)
increase telephone penetration and leased line
facilities in PLDT's service areas, with an emphasis
on provincial development; (b) improve PLDT's quality
of service; and (c) address deficiencies in sector
This document ha a uctod diurlbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit ofciaW dutie& Its covtets may not othawie be dibclsed without World Bank authoXztbn.



- li -
management and regulation. Most of the proposed
project has been designed to provide improved
telephone facilities in areas that the Government has
identified as having major economic importance.
DeiU2ELgtigC:         Under the proposed project PLrT will undertake the
following activities: (a) provision of new, and
expansion of existing telephone services, mostly in
provincial municipalities but also in Metro Manila;
(b) extension of its toll network to interconnect the
remaining isolated exchanges managed by other
operators; (c) provision of networks, throughout the
Philippines, for leasing to businesses and other
operators; (d) provision of equipment to improve its
operations and maintenance capabilities and training
facilities; and (f) strengthening of its project
management capabilities. In association w'th the
project, the Government proposes to strengthen its
management and regulation of the sector.
Benefits:                The benefits of the project would accrue to all
sectors of the economy through increased access to
communications facilities. Businesses and the public
in the 239 provincial municipalities involved in the
project would benefit most through new and expanded
telephone services which will markedly improve
existing communication services.
Risks:                   No significant risks are foreseen.



* iii -
Estimated Costa: i
Local             Foreig      Total
---        -US$ Million--------
Telecommunications facilities              65.5        110.0        175.5
Operations and Training Facilities          3.5           9.5        13.0
Power Equipment, Towers                     6.0          6.0         12.0
Vehicles & Miscellaneous
Civil Work for Buildings, Sites            27.5          6.5         34.0
Outside Plant
Consultancy                                 2..
Base Cost                           102.5        134.0       236.5
Physical Contingency                  8.5          8.5        17.0
Price Contingency                    11.0          5.5        16.5
Total Project Cost           122.0         148.0       270.0
Interest During Construction          5.0         13.0        18.0
Total Financing Requirements        127.0        161.0       288.0
PinanciUg PlAn:
PLDT                                127.0         27.0       154.0
IBRD                                  0.0        134.0       134.0
Total                        127.0        1fi1L0       2s88.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:             IBRD Fiscal Year
199   194  1995   122k   1222   1298   122i
Annual                   8.0  22.0   32.0   32.0  26.0    12.0    12.0
Cumulative               8.0  30.0   62.0   94.0 120.0  132.0   134.0
Zn Inclusive of duties and taxes estimated at US$40 million equivalent.
Totals have been rounded to nearest $0.5 million.



PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expandon Projed
Staff Appraisal Rtport
TAe of Cone
LAo  andPtojectSummnary ... . ................... -........ . . .....
TIlTHE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECrOR  ........................... . -1
A.  Background  ....... .................................                            . -1-
B.  SetorStutur       e ................. .......... .......... .  I-1
C.  DemandandExpansion ........ ..............3....                                  -3-
D.  Govenmen Strategy fbr the Sector ...........            .............. .        -6-
E.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .......... .....  ................. .8-
2.     TH*' PROJECT   .................................  . 9-
A.  Gener  .........................................  .-9-
B.  P     Is invemtent Progs=  .......         ...       ........................ .     9. -9-
C.  ProjectObjves  ..........................    ...........  .9-
D.  Projea D ctf l on ..........................   .......... .  -10-
E.  Projed  os  ..................... . .... 4.. .. O..  -12-
P.  ProJect Financng .................              ..      ...     ........ . -13-
0.  Procurme   ..... ...          ..    ..................... -14-
H.  Disbursemet .... ..............................    .-16-
I.   Projet Ile me on and Schedule ..         ......................... . -17 -
J.   Montong and Repordng ................................... .  18 -
IL  SupervisionPln .. .. .............. ...... .    18-
L.  Enviromnet ...................................    .-18 -



-vi-
3.    THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY  ...... .......                      .......  - 19-
A.  Introduction        ..      ..................................  -19 -
B.  The Development Bank of the Phflippines .......................... .         -19 -
C.  lhe Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company .......     ............  - 22 -
4.    FINANCLAL ANALYSIS ....................................  - 28 -
A.  Backgrond . ....................................    -28-
B. Past and Present Financial Performance . .           .       . .-......  28-
C.  Financing Plan  ....................................    - 31-
D.  Future Finance  ....................................    - 33-
S.     ECONOIIC ANALYSIS ....................................  . 36-
A.  Benefits ....................................    ......  . 36-
B.    Tarif .s   .  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..... - 36 -
C.  Return on lIvestment ....................................  . 37-
D.  Least Cost Solution .................................... .- 38 -
E. Project Risks .....................................  38-
6.     AGREE.ENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                  .........................  . 39 -
A.  Agreements Reached ....................................  - 39 -
B.  Recommendaion ....................................                               -40-



- vii -
1.1   Philippines - Growth in Telephone Services
1.2    DOTC Circular 90-252 - Telecommuni -tions Policy
1.3    DOTC Departmental Order 90-483 - Formation of Telecommunications Policy Directorate
1.4    DOTC Letter of Intent on Telecommunications Policy Matters
2.1    Details of X-5, X-SC and "Other Worksl Projects
2.2    Description of Project Services
2.3    Estimated Project Costs
2.4   Proposed Secondary Lending Arrangements Related to Government us of the Float
2.5   Proposed Procurement Arrangements for World Bank Financed Itms
2.6   Project Disbursement Schedule
2.7   Schedule of Construction
2.8    Draft Terms of Reference for Project Management Consultants
3.1   PLDT Organizational Chart
3.2   PLDT Staffing Distribution (Pie Chart)
3.3   PLDT Staffing Patterns
3.4   PLDT Operational Performance Targets
4.1   PLDT Annual Financial Statements and Projections 1987-97
5.1   PLDT Tariffs
5.2   PLDT Return on Investment
5.3    List of Documents in Project File
IBRD 22934 - PLDT's Telephone System Expansion Project



1. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
A. Background
1.1       For much of the last half of the '980s, the Philippines was
striving to sustain its recovery from the economic turmoil of the first half
of the 1980s. In 1985, the GDP growth rate in real terms was -3.81, foreign
debt bordered on $30 billion, and about 701 of Filipino households lived below
the poverty line. In contrast, by 1988, GDP growth in real terms increased to
more than 6X, the inflation rate fell to slightly below 91, and other economic
indicators registered positive improvement. However, starting in December
1989, the economy sustained one shock after another as a result of political
unrest, natural disasters, and the Persian Gulf crisis. The growth rate for
GDP slowed to less than 3X in 1990, and turned negative in 1991.
1.2       Telecommunications is one of the least developed infrastructure
sectors in the Philippines. Service is generally unavailable; and, where it
is available, the quality of service is considered patchy. The Government be-
lieves that inadequate communications were a constraint to economic devel-
opment during the recent recovery, and a deterrent to the foreign investment
needed to offset the negative economic impact of the recent shocks.
1.3       The telephone sub-sector is the segment of the telecommunications
sector that most urgently needs expanding and upgrading. Service coverage is
sparse, with most telephone installations being concentrated in Metro Manila
and only to a lesser degree in other principal cities; some cities, small
towns and rural areas, and even relatively populous outskirts of principal
cities have little or no access to telephone service. As of 1986, the nation-
wide telephone density of 1.0 lines per 100 population was among the lowest
among the ASEAN countries; by contrast, telephone density was about 32.5 per
100 population in Singapore, 6.5 in Nalaysia, 1.7 in Thailand, and 0.4 in
Indonesia. The telephone density in Manila of about 9.6 per 100 population is
very low for a Southeast Asian capital city, and waiting lists for service
average three to five years. Elsewhere in the country, telephone density is a
virtually non-existent 0.3 per 100 people.
B. Sector Structure
1.4       The Government has regarded the provision of telecommunications
services to be mainly the responsibility of the private sector. An array of
privately owned carriers provide a reasonable range of services for both in-
ternational and local communications.  Generally, the Goverwaent intends that
these services be offered by franchised carriers on a "reguiated competition"
basis; however, the Government recognizes that certain faci'Lties, such as
local telephone service, are most efficiently provided on a single carrier per
franchise area basis. The Government's Telecommunications Office (TELOF), re-
sponsible to the Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC), also
provides telegraph services, and some telephone services to remote areas.



- 2-
1.5       Historically, one group of companies has been licensed to provide
record services (telegraph, telex, data and facsimile) and another licensed to
provide telephone services. National record services are provided by six
privately owned carriers and TELOF, while four privately owned carriers pro-
vide the international segment of these services. Two international record
carriers, Eastern Telecommunications Philippines, Inc. (ETPI) and Philippine
Global Communications (PHILCOM), have telephone correspondence agreements with
several countries in the region, and are also licensed as carriers of record
and telephone services. Two of the privately owned dow3stic record carriers,
the Philippine Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (PT&T) and Radio Commu-
nications of the Philippines, Inc (RCPI), maintain small nationwide record
transmission facilities in parallel with those of the dominant telephone
carrier, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company (PLDT), and have used
them to provide unlicensed voice toll services. In some cases, these three
companies cooperate by leasing circuits from and providing restoral facilities
to each other. Moreover, PLDT often leases the local loop cable connections
to the record carriers. Two other companies, both carrier's carriers, are li-
censed to operate satellite communications facilities. The Philippine Commu-
nications Satellite Corp. (PHILCOMSAT) leases international circuits to tele-
phone and record carriers; the Domestic Satellite Philippines Corp (DONSAT) is
supposed to provide'similar services domestically; but it currently provides
only television relay services. An affiliate of PLDT, PILTEL, is the major
provider of mobile telephone services. A second company, Extelcom, was
licensed in 1989 to provide mobile telephones in competition to PLDT/PILTEL.
1.6       As of early 1990, PLDT was providing telephone service to about 902
of the country's 625,000 working lines and about 941 of the nation's 1.05 mil-
lion installed telephones (many subscribers share party lines). Its local
service areas consist of most major cities and larger towns, so that the Com-
pany serves many of the nation's lucrative markets. PLDT is one of the na-
tion's largest companies; at the end of 1991, its net worth exceeded P 18 bil-
lion and its annual revenues were about P 16.6 billion. About 50 other inves-
tor and local government owned operators provide 81 of te1ephone connections.
Generally, they are small, financially weak, and thinly cspitalized; and they
provide poor quality of service. TELOF provides the remaining 22 of connec-
tions. TELOF's efforts to provide telephone service have proven ineffectual;
an affiliate of PLDT currently operates TELOF's networks in Regions I and II
(northern Luzon). DOTC is planning to divest itself of TELOF's activities.
1.7       PLDT also owns most of the long distance networks that interconnect
with local exchanges. It carries virtually all domestic long distance and
international traffic. Until recently, PLDT was the only carrier to provide
international telephone service; however, in 1989, NTC opened this service to
competition by awarding licenses to operate gateways to ETPI and PHILCOM.
Small operators that are not interconnected to PLDT's long distance networks
are limited to providing local service in marginal markets and thus have a
weak revenue base. Operators that are interconnected share only modestly in
revenues from long distance and international service. The Government needs
to provide leadership so that operators will become more accountable to their
consumers and to the national interest; this is particularly true of PLDT,



-3-
whose policies and actions set the standards for investment and operating per-
formance for the sector.
1.8       DOTC is the core Government agency responsible for the sector.  Its
'le is Inter alia to formulate  (i) policies for directing the sector-
(ii) a framework for the future expansion of service; and (iii) objectives
against which the operational performance and investments of sector partici-
pants could be measured. An attached agency, the National Telecommunications
Commission (NTC), is responsible for regulating the activities of the opera-
tors by (a) awarding and renewing , rating licenses to franchised companies;
(b) approving the expansion plans and tariffs of carriers; (c) monitoring the
performance of network operators; and (d) managing the frequency spectrum.
1.9       These arrangements could work satisfactorily; however, because of
the low priority accorded to telecommunications until recently by the Govern-
ment, neither DOTC nor NTC has adequately fulfilled its responsibilities.
DOTC has lacked both a clear strategy for development of the sector and a
clear policy regarding sector structure, service priorities and operational
performance. The uncertainty created by this lack of a policy framework has
left NTC without a clear direction for its regulatory activities, which has
been ranifest by inconsistency in rulings regarding the sector's structure and
delays in approving expansion plans. The resultant lack of timely and effec-
tive regulation has led to operators pursuing parochial interests without any
official authority interceding to ensure that national developmental pri-
orities would be served, and that consumers would receive satisfactory quality
service. Most importantly, in the absence of effective competition and an
effective medium for accountability, PLDT understandably furthered its cor-
porate interests by (i) structuring rates and revenue sharing arrangements to
its own advantage, often to the detriment of the small operators; (ii) denying
interconnection to some operators, and disconnecting others in instances of
non-payment; and (iii) providing patchy quality of service to its subscribers.
C. Demand and Expansion
1.10      Because of the low priority accorded to the telephone sub-sector by
the Government, expansion of service has been too slow to keep pace with the
development of other sectors of the economy. During the 1980s, PLDT's number
of working lines grew by only about 6% per year; this corresponds to a growth
rate of about 5.9% for Metro Manila and about 7.0% for the provinces (Annex
1.1). These rates are below the 8% average for developing countries and much
less than the 12-15% rates recorded in the more dynamic econc ,es.
1.11      PLDT has historically taken a conservative approach to meeting de-
mand growth in the large cities; and given the existence of other local opera-
tors including TELOF, and the lack of guidance from the Government, it has
never actively sought to extend its service beyond narrowly defined, hig.hly
profitable areas. Moreover, the Government has prevented PLDT from growing as
fast as the Company itself had proposed. In the early 1980s, after consider-
able delays, NTC required that PLDT substantially reduce its planned X-5 ex-
pansion program. Then, the Government constrained the Company's access to



-4-
foreign exchange, thereby making loan syndication for the reduced X-5 more
difficult and delaying its start. Implementation of that program has only
begun within the past year. In turn, the smaller operators hid behind the
modesty of their profits and the high cost of capital to curtail their own in-
veatment programs. With such sparse penetration of telephores and the rela-
tively slow growth in service during the 1980s, PLDT not surprisingly has a
backlog of about 400,000 applications for telephone service. For the same
period, the other operators realized a growth rate of 3.6% for working lines.
They too have significant backlogs in applications for service. In contrast,
TELOF's complement of working lines fell by about 5.6% during the 1980s.
1.12      In the early 1980s, the Government decided that TELOF should imple-
ment its own nationwide program to expand service. Under the first phase,
18,000 lines were installed in Regions I and II (northern Luzon). The demand
on which the project was based never materialized, and TELOF was unable to
operate and maintain the networks. After several years of contracting with a
PLDT subsidiary for their operation, the Government has decided either to
privatize or lease these networks (para. 1.15).
1.13      Future expansion of telephone service is expected to flow from
three initiatives:
(a) PLDT's Long Term Exoansion Erogrm. During the 1990s, PLDT plans a
major expansion program to install about 658,000 new lines, for an
annual growth rate of about 10%3/. The first phase (the X-5) is
now under construction; the needed financing for the second phase,
the X-5C, is currently being finalized; and plans for the third
phase, the X-6, are nearing completion. The proposed project,
which would provide 149,000 of the new lines under this long term
expansion program, was formulated by ?LDT specially to meet the
Government's appropriate and feasible sector development priorities
by bringing forward ccaponents of the X-6 and subsequent expansion
plans; moreover, it contains only components that NTC indicated it
could approve, pending financing. This combined program is expect-
ed to stretch the institutional and financial limits of PLDT's
capability to expand, and therefore represents appropriate medium
term growth for the company.
(b)  The Natlonal Telephone Program (MTP). This initiative aims to in-
stall some 87,000 new lines by 1994 in localities unserved by PLDT
in Regions III-XII. This would double the service currently being
provided by TELOF and the other operators. The Government has se-
cured bilateral financing for different segments of the NTP from
Japan, France and Italy. Some additional finance may be needed;
and the Bank indicated it could consider financing part of the bal-
3/     After appraisal, PLDT substantially increased the size of its expan-
sion plans; the changes are reflected in Annex 3.4. During project
supervision the Bank would appraise the scope and size of those new
plans and PLDT's capacity to implement them.



-5-
ance if the Government (i) engages capable operators for the
planned networks, and (ii) revises designs and procurement arrange-
ments to ensure that those networks are least cost. The Government
will address the operator issue using technical assistance financed
by a Bank-managed Japanese Grant.
(c)  The Municlial Telephone Act.  This Act, passed in 1989, mandates
that the Government implement a program to provide basic telecom-
munication service to the 1,200 or so unserved municipalities by
1993. It directs DOTC to administer the program and authorizes the
Government to use its own funds as well as official loans to fi-
nance private sector efforts to implement this program. Currently,
the Government is receiving bilateral offers of support for this
program.
Few detail'.s were available about the expansion plans of the other 60 or so
operators or of independent companies that have expressed interest in entering
the telephone industry. However, these efforts are expected to be modest and
in keeping with their low development profiles of recent years.
Pgst Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.14      The Bank has been actively involved for several years in helping
the Government address some of the basic policy issues constraining the growth
of the sector. In 1985, under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2495-
PH), the Bank made a $4 million loan aimed at strengthening NTC and updating
the NTP. Despite a number of implementation problems, that project met most
of its objectives. During supervision of that project, the Government fol-
lowed the Bank's advice to constitute a National Telecommunications Develop-
ment Committee (NTDC) as a forum for discussing policy issues facing the sec-
tor; based on those deliberations, DOTC would formulate the urgently needed
policy framework. The NTDC has reached the end of its term and was dissolved,
but many of its recommendations have been used as inputs to legislation and to
the formulation of sector policy. Recently, the Government and the Bank
agreed to (i) continue NTC's institutional development efforts; and (ii) en-
sure adequate operating arrangements for the NTP. In conjunction with the
proposed project, a Japanese Grant will finance consultancy services to assist
the Government's efforts at addressing these issues. Separately, IFC has
maintained long-standing financing relationship with PLDT. Since 1969, IFC
has made five investments (fcr a total of $128.5 million) with the Company
which included, at one point, the owning of some 376,000 shares of PLDT's
stock. Recently, IFC served as PLDT's financial advisor. In that role, IFC
led the syndication of $155 million in loans for the X-5  -oject. That syndi-
cation included a direct IFC loan of $30 million and a B-Loan of another $40
million, both of which were approved by .., Board in June 1989. IFC is
expected to assist PLDT complete its financing arrangements for the X-5C
project. The main lesson to be drawn from IFC's experience is that PLDT has
generally met its implemenuation targets apart from delays in completing the
assembly of project financing plans, regulatory clearances, or equipment
deliveries. Consequently, IFC has rated PLDT's project implementation capa-
bility as very good. Past implementation problems are being addressed under



-6-
the proposed project: (i) the proposed Bank loan will provide all the neces-
sary external financing; (ii) the regulator has already given approval-in-
principle for PLDT to implement the project components (formal clearance can
only follow confirmation of the financing arrangements), and efforts to obtain
final regulatory clearance are well advanced; and (iii) under the Bank's
procurement procedures, bids from potential suppliers will not be accepted
unless accompanied by commitments to meet PLDT's delivery timetable.
D. Government Strategy for the Sector
1.15      For many years, the Government has been unclear about its object-
ives for the telephone sub-sector as well as about its own role. As a result,
the privately owned carriers have generally felt free to maximize their short
term profitability and foreswear investments that failed to promise immediate
strong returns, without regard for national priorities. In 1988, DOTC begar.
the process of filling the policy vacuum by establishing the National Telecom-
munications Development Committee (NTDC) to serve as a forum within which all
interested Government agencies and private carrisrs could air their views
regarding proposed policies. More recently, DOTC has made substantial prog-
ress in the following areas:
(a) DOTC's Role. On August 10. 1990, DOTC issued Department Circular
90-252 (Annex 1.2) stipulating that the Government would (i) vest
responsibility for operation and maintenance of telecommunications
networks and investment in the future development of facilities in
the private sector; (ii) serve as a facilitator for and regulator
of sector participants, while occasionally serving ag developer of
last resort; (iii) privatize its telecommunications networks; (iv)
address the sector's business environment to enable private compa-
nies to operate more profitably, and thereby undertake responsibil-
ity for investment in their service areas; and (v) strengthen the
sector's regulatory framework. On November 21, 1990, DOTC issued
Department Order 90-483 (Annex 1.3) establishing a Policy Director-
ate inter alLa to implement Department Circular 90-252.
(b) Development Plan for the Sector. In October 1990, DOTC adopted the
National Telephone Development Plan (NTDP), which provides a rea-
sonable policy framework for future expansion and operation of the
sector. The NTDP, which was formulated with the active collabora-
tion of the private sector, addresses (i) investment priorities for
the medium and long term, and (ii) network performance standards.
These objectives could be used by NTC as the basis for assessing
the operators' (a) investment plans, and (b) applications to renew
their operating licenses. This is a dynamic plan that needs to be
reviewed regularly and adapted to changing conditions in the coun-
try and in the sector.
(c)  FlnancIng of Investment.  Despite the inrerent profitability of
telecommunications operations, the country's large outstanding for-
eign debt and current uncertain economic climate constrains even



-7-
the strongest of the privately owned operators from raising needed
investment capital solely from commercial sources. Having recog-
nized this problem, the Government decided in 1990 to make avail-
able to private operators borrowings from official sources; in the
past, this form of funding had been reserved to finance only tele-
communications investments being pursued by Government entities.
As a first step, the Municipal Telephone Act includes a pr,vision
for making available the proceeds of official loans up to the
equivalent of P 300 million and up to P 200 million of budget funds
to support private sector investments in public call offices in
currently unserved localities. The proposed loan in support of
PLDT is in keeping  . x this revised Government policy.  In gener-
al, the Government t.   r,visages its role as a facilitator of
private investment-i  zler than as an implementor and/or owner of
telecommunicatior..-    tems.
(d)  Interconnection and Revenue Sharlng.  NTC has recently promulgated
acceptable guidelines governing (i) access of all local service
operators nationwide to ocher local networks, domestic long dis-
tance, and international service, and (ii) revenue sharing arrange-
ments between local and long distance operators (domestic and in-
ternational). PLDT has developed plans for complying with the in-
terconnection guidelines, and the proposed loan will finance a sub-
stantial part of the necessary investment. It has also adjusted
its rate sharing formula to provide local operators with a greater
share of domestic long distance and international revenues. In
coming years, the Government and PLDT will need to review the stru-
cture of rates to ensure that implied levels of cross subsidization
are appropriate.
(e) Strengthenlng of Government Institutions. DOTC has received ap-
proval of a V 278 million grant from a Bank managed Japanese Gov-
ernment facility to finance technical assistance to (i) develop
sound operating arrangements for the NTP; (ii) continue NTC's
institutional development efforts; and (iii) provide services and
facilities to improve the telecommunications sector's training pro-
grams. DOTC and NTC have retained some consultants and are in the
process of retaining others for these activities.
1.16      The Bank has assisted DOTC in the formulation and development of
these initiatives. Through a continuation of the dialogue, the Bank can help
ensure the coherence of these efforts and that necessary follow-up activities
are adequately supported. During negotiations, the Government agreed that it
would (i) furnish to the Bank a summary of the results of its annual review of
the implementation of its telecommunications policies; and (ii) seek the
Bank's comments if major change in any such policy is expected. In addition,
the Government sent a letter (Annex 1.4) to the Bank confirming that it would
conduct an annual review of progress with regard to implementing its policies
and plans, including the provisions of Departmental Circular 90-252; (b) by
January 1, 1994, review its policy framework including the structure of
telephone tariffs; and (c) share with the Bank the results of those reviews



-8-
and adopt, if feasible, the recommendations reached. Moreover, the letter
affirmed that the Government would share with the Bank the result of thest. and
other reviews that might result in major changes in sector development policy,
and solicit the Bank's views prior to deciding any such changes.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.17      The inadequacy of infrastructure generally, and of telecommunica-
tions services specifically, is a major constraint to investment and economic
growth in the Philippines. For telecommunications services to improve to
levels comparable to nearby countries, the sector needs (i) considerable in-
vestments to upgrade existing facilities and expand networks at a time when
country conditions inhibit even the strongest companies from raising invest-
ment capital from commercial sources; and (ii) greater institutional cohesion,
wherein the Government and the major providers of service improve their effec-
tiveness in their allotted roles. In addition, the Government needs to imple-
ment the policies enunciated in the NTDP and develop an institutional frame-
work within which the sector can grow; and, it needs to provide the leadership
needed for PLDT to evince greater concern for national developmental priori-
ties and increased responsiveness to the service requirements of its consum-
ers. Because of the depth of its existing dialogue with both the Government
and PLDT, the Bank is uniquely positioned to use its involvement in the pro-
ject to address all of these issues. In particular:
(a) By financing a project that focuses on developing service in areas
of high priority to the Government, the Bank would lead PLDT to
take a more balanced approach toward future network development.
(b)  By financing the proposed project, the Bank would assume the role
of a cornerstone financier for PLDT, thereby enhancing the Com-
pany's financial credibility as well as its efforts to obtain the
balance of its investment requirements from commercial sources.
(c) By emphasizing cost optimization and quality of service as well as
a more expansive approach to investment, the Bank would induce PLDT
to become more responsive to its consumers.
(d) By channeling a substantial official loan to a private company, the
Bank is encouraging the private sector to assume responsibility for
a major development investment.
(e) By supervising the consultancies financed by the Japanese Grant,
the Bank would continue pursuing sector policy and regulatory
issues, including (i) the institutional strengthening needed to
enable DOTC to become more effective at managing and NTC at regu-
lating the sector; and (ii) the constructive dialogue between the
Government and PLDT needed to enable PLDT to play a leading role
within a clearly defined policy framework.



2. THE PROJECT
A. General
2.1       The proposed project is a stand-alone part of PLDT's planned in-
vestment program for the period 1991-94.
B. PLDT's Investment Program
2.2       PLDT's investment program for 1991-96 is divided into four princi-
pal ccmponents: (i) the X-5 project, which is currently under implementation;
(ii) the X-5C project, part of which is under implementation; (iii) the pro-
posed project; (iv) the X-6 project which is planned to start in 1994; and (v)
other works. The Bank's appraisal mission examined PLDT's investment program,
except for the X-6 project for which plans were still being formulated, and
found it fully consistent with the sector objectives outlined in para. 1.15.
2.3       The X-5 and X-5C parts of PLDT's expansion program provide for ex-
pansion of existing networks and customer facilities. Contracts for the X-5
project have been awarded and works are expected to be completed in 1992.
Contracts for the turnkey construction of 120,000 lines of the X-5C project
have been awarded and bids for the drawing, supply and construction of the
remaining 265,000 lines have been called. The other works included in the
investment program are expected to expand PLDT's international and local
transmission networks and include a variety of sub-projects for expanding and
improving service, including works to rehabilitate PLDT's cable networks.
Contracts related to the "other works" component of the investment program are
being let on a case-by-case basis; progress is to a large extent dictated by
the availability of acceptable financing. Further details about these proj-
ects are provided in Annex 2.1.
C. Project Objectives
2.4       The proposed project aims to (i) increase telephone penetration and
leased line facilities in PLDT's service areas, with an emphasis on provincial
development; and (ii) improve PLDT's quality of service and efficiency. In
general, the proposed project will enable PLDT to advance its plans for imple-
menting a variety of customer and operating facilities needed urgently to meet
demand in areas that the Government has identified as having major economic
importance (para. 1.13(a)) and to improve PLDT's operational performance.
2.5       In conjunction with, yet separate from the proposed project, the
Government has agreed to take action to strengthen sector management and regu-
lation (para. 1.15). The Bank will support DOTC's efforts to improve its ca-
pacity to manage the sector, and NTC's efforts to improve its ability to regu-
late sector activities, through (i) continuing dialogue with DOTC and NTC dur-
ing project supervision; and (ii) technical assistance which is being provided
from the Bank-managed Japanese Grant Facility (para. 1.15(e)). That technical



-10-
assistance Grant for 1 278 million has been approved and is effective, and the
Grant amount is therefore not included in the project costs. The amount of
technical assistance is adequate given the absorptive capacity of DOTC and NTC
to effectively use consultant support.
D. Project Description
2.6       The main components of the project are (Annex 2.2):
(a) Expansion and rehabilitation of telephone services in provincial
areas through the provision of 133,000 lines of exchange equipment;
(b) Provision of about 97 public calling offices (PCOs) in currently
unserved municipalities in 10 provinces;
(c) Interconnection of six isolated exchanges, managed by independent
operators, with PLDT's toll network thereby providing them with ac-
cess to national and international services;
(d) Provision of outside plant to connect about 41,000 new customers
thereby utilizing more completely the local exchange capacity be-
coming available in the Metro Manila area;
(e) Provision of special circuits,, in the Metro Manila area and 20 Pro-
vincial cities, to be used as leased voice and data lines;
(f) Provision of a transmission maintenance system to improve PLDT's
inter-exchange circuit operations and maintenance performance;
(g) Provision of training equipment for PLDT; and
(h) Consultants to strengthen PLDT's program management capabilities.
2.7       Provincial Telephone Expansion. This component involves the in-
stallation of about 133,000 lines of exchange and related telecommunications
equipment for providing (i) new telephone services in 53 unserved municipalit-
ies in 9 provinces; (ii) expanding existing telecommunications facilities; and
(iii) replacing obsolete equipment. The areas were selected on the basis of
government priority (para. 1.13(a)). A total of 32 new exchanges (34,000
lines) are to be installed in provincial towns, and 23 existing exchanges are
to be expanded by about 51,000 lines to accommodate pending requests for ser-
vice. In many cases lines will be extended from new and expanded exchanges to
serve adjoining municipalities. In addition, about 20,000 lines of obsolete
electromechanical equipment at 23 exchanges will be replaced with about 49,000
lines of new digital exchange equipment. Six of the above new exchanges will
provide modern telecommunication facilities for eight industrial parks; two
exchanges will each serve two parks. The parks are under development in Re-
gions III and IV, and the availability of acceptable telecommunications facil-
ities is a prerequisite to attracting investors. In total, after allowing for
replacement of old exchanges and an exchange fill ratio of 95X, this component
will provide a net increase of about 108,000 new telephone lines.



- 11 -
2.8       Public Call Offices.  Through this component, PCOs will be in-
stalled in 97 currently unserved municipalities in 10 provinces. The PCOs
will be connected to exchanges through a variety of techniques, including:
(i) fixed base stations to access PLDT's existing cellular mobile radio facil-
ities, and (ii) multi-access radio systems being provided under the project.
The use of cellular techniques will make these services robust and more immune
to outages during natural disasters. This component will enable PLDT to ful-
fill its obligations under the Municipal Telephone Act (para. 1.13(c)).
2.9       Interconnection of non PLDT exchan,es.  Through this component, one
Government and five independently operated telephone exchanges would be inter-
connected to PLDT's toll network. These are 6 of the 25 licensed Government
and independently owned telephone exchanges in the Philippines that are still
not connected to toll networks that would give them access t .omestic long
distance and international services. Services in these isolated exchanges are
therefore confined to local calls. Interconnection has been mandated by a
recent NTC guideline, and PLDT plans to install most of the facilities needed
to comply with that guideline through the X-5 and X-5C projects. PLDT plans
to interconnect, under this project, the six remaining isolated telephone ex-
changes that are in proximity to its toll networks!/.
2.10      Manila Outside Plant and Services.  Under the X-5C project, PLDT
will implement a significant upgrading and expansion of telephone exchanges in
the Metro Manila area. The resultant rationalization of customer connections
will release some spare exchange capacity throughout the network. This compo-
nent will utilize that spare capacity by providing outside plant and equipment
for customer premises for about 41,000 new connections.
2.11      Leased Line Facilities.  This component would accommodate growing
demand from businesses for leased voice and data lines by providing a dedicat-
ed transmission network in the Metro Manila area and selected provincial cit-
ies. The network would consi.t of a distributed optical fiber cable system
with a capacity of about 2,000 voice and data circuits interconnecting major
exchanges and buildings through 21 nodes in the Metro Manila area. Extensions
to the system will be provided to 20 nodes in provincial cities through the
use of PLDT's existing and planned network transmission facilities.
2.12      Transmission Maintenance System.  This component will provide a
special digital maintenance system with facilities to improve PLDT's ability
to centrally monitor and test inter-exchange and private circuits in the Metro
Manila network. This component is designed to reduce circuit outage times and
thereby improve service quality.
2.13      Tralning Facillties.  Additional simulatior and miscellaneous
training equipment will be provided in order to maintain PLDT's training fa-
cilities at an acceptable level of performance.
!/   The Government plans to interconnect the other isolated exchanges to the
long distance networks being developed under the NTP.



-12-
2.14        Strenthenlng of PLDT's Protect Managemt CapablUtles.  Consul-
tants will be engaged to review and help PLDT strengthen their project manage-
ment operations (para. 2.30).
E. Project Cost
2.15        The total project cost is estimated at US$270 million (excluding
interest during construction), of which US$148 million is projected to be the
foreign cost (direct and indirect). Detailed cost estimates for the project
are presented in Annex 2.3 and summarized in Table 2.1:
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Foreign Cost
Pesos Million                US$ Million        as % of
Local    Foreign     Total     Local   Foreign  Total    Total
Ecuinment & Servioes
Telephone Exchanges            563.5   1.414.0    1.977.6        20.0      50.5    70.5      72
Transmission Equipment         334.0      733.5     1,067.5       12.0     26.0    38.0      se
Outside Plant                  882.5      831.5    1,714.0       31.5     29.5    61.0       48
Customer Premises                59.5     114.5       174.0       2.0       4.0     6.0      67
Equipment
Operations and Training         102.0     271.0       373.0       3.5       9.5    13.0      73
Facilities
Power Equipment, Towers,        175.0     174.0       349.0       6.0       6.0    12.0      50
Vehicles & Miscellaneous
Civil Works
Outside Plant                  238.5       65.0       303.5       8.5       2.5    11.0      23
Suldingp and sites             526.0      105.0       631.0      19.0       4.0    23.0      17
Consultansv                      0.0       56.0        56.0       0.0       2.0     2.0    100
TotlE BeCo tm                2,881.0   3,764.5    6,645.5      102.5    134.0   236.5       57
Physioal Contingenoy         232.5      235.5      468.0        8.5      8.5    17.0       -
Ptice Contingency            311.5      156.0      467.5       11.0      5.5    16.5       -
Tot Protect Cost is         3,425.0   4,156.0    7,581.0      122.0    148.0   270.0       53
INT. DURING CONSTRUCTION     138.0      369.0      506.0        5.0     13.0    18.0       -
TOTAL F^IANCING REUIRED   3,561.0   4,525.0    8,087.0        127.0    161.0   288.0       se
NgW: Cost estimates have been rounded to the nearest 0.5 million.
l The project cost includes an estmated US$40 million equivalent in duties and taxes
2.16        All costs are in April 1992 prices and based on recent price quota-
tions from equipment suppliers. Physical contingencies related to (a) foreign



-13-
costs are 5X for switching equipment and 10 for other items, and (b) local
costs are 5 for goods and 10 for labor and overheads. The price escalation
of foreign costs is calculated according to anticipated international price
movement of 3.9X per annum during the implementation period of the project
(1992-96). The price escalation for local costs is calculated according to
the projected local inflation rate of 10 per annum. Interest during con-
struction is calculated by applying the Bank's current interest rate of 7.73X
plus a spread of about 3.25X applicable to the onlending to PLDT, to the aver-
age amount expected to be drawn down during each year of construction and by
adding the commitwent fee on the average undrawn amount of the loan. The
proportion of interest during construction attributable to the proposed Bank
loan itself, is allocated to foreign cost; the proportion attributable to the
spread is allocated to local cost.
F. Project Flnancing
2.17      The financing plan for the project is presented in Table 2.2 below:
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign    Total  1 of Total
IBRD                             0.0     134.0      134.0      46.5
PLDT                           127.0      27.0      154.0      53.5
Total                   127.0     161.0     288.0     100.0
2.18      The proposed Bank loan of US$134 million would be lent to the De-
velopment Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for 20 years, including five years of
grace on repayment of principal, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government would guarantee the entire amount of the Bank loan to DBP, and
would charge a guarantee fee equal to 11 per annum on the outstanding loan
amount. While DBP would assume (and transfer to PLDT) the exchange rate risk
between the Peso and the US dollar, the Government has agreed to assume the
cross currency risk between the US dollar and the Bank's currency pool, for a
second fee of 11 per annum on the outstanding loan amount.
2.19      In turn, DBP would relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to a bank-
ing syndicate, which would include DBP as well as four other participating
banks. The Banking Syndicate would in turn relend the entire proceed to PLDT
through two separate facilities: (i) the first, of which DBP would subscribe
the entire $35 million, would include a term of twelve years with a grace
period of four years on repayment of principal; and (ii) the second, of which
each participating bank would take the primary responsibility and assume the
intermediation risk for its subscribed portion of the remaining US$99 million,



*14-
would include a ten year term with a grace period of four years on repayment
of pxincipal. In addition to serving as a member of the syndicate, DBP would
serve as originator of the syndicate and would act as agent for the syndicate
members throughout the life of the loan to PLDt.
2.20      In addition to bearing responsibility for the Bank's interest rate,
the aggregate of 2X in fees being charged by the Government will be borne by
the banking syndicate and flow through to PLDT. DBP would earn 1XX on the
entire amount for its role as originator and administrator of the relending
arrangements, and each of the syndicate members (including DBP) would share an
additional spread of 1% to compensate for the intermediation risk. Thus, the
rate to PLDT will be 31.% above the Bank's rate, which over time is expected to
be a reasonable proxy for market rate for a loan of similar size and maturity.
2.21      Each participating bank is in good standing with the Central Bank
of the Philippines and in compliance with posted prudential regulations.
Moreover, all participating banks have been accredited under the Bank financed
Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3287-PH).
2.22      Because the maturities applicable to the two relending operations
are considerably shorter than the term of the Bank loan, PLDT shall amortize
its loans ahead of DBP's amortization of the IBRD loan. Consequently, DBP
will need to manage a float resulting from the excess of the principal repay-
ments made by PLDT over the amounts that would be due to the IBRD. The Gov-
ernment wishes to use this float for application to general macroeconomic
purposes, according to an arrangement for secondary lending that would func-
tion as though the Government were the Borrower of the IBRD loan; thus the
arrangements for secondary lending will need to be tailored so as to hold DBP
free of benefit or cost (Annex 2.4).
2.23      The documentation for the arrangements described above are unusual
and complicated. For that reason, negotiations were held open until the
drafts were reviewed satisfactorily by the Bank. A condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan will be the execution of satisfactory documents for:
(a)  onlending to the syndicate and syndicate operations (between DBP
and the other participating banks);
(b) onlending to PLDT (between the syndicate members and PLDT);
(c) guarantee of the Bank loan, coverage of the cross currency risk,
and secondary lending (between the Government and DBP).
G. Procurement
2.24      Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized in
Table 2.3. Details are provided in Annex 2.5. Contracts for about US$114
million (including contingencies) for goods and services would be awarded
according to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures using the
Bank's standard procurement guidelines. The Bank has cleared PLDT's proposed
wording for its model document, "Invitation to Bid and Conditions of Con-
tract", which would be applied to all ICB procurement financed by the Bank.
Items to be procured according to ICB include (a) new telephone exchange equi-



- is -
pment; (b) transmission equipment; (c) outside plant items such as optic fiber
cable, copper cable, and miscellaneous jointing materials; and other items
Table-2.3:  SUMMARY OF PROCUREKENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB        LCB       OthertLa     NBF&       Total
Eguipment and Services:
Telephone Exchanges                 38.5                  16.6        22.5        77.5
(38.5)                (16.5)                 (55.0)
Transmission Equipment              28.0                   0.5        13.5       42.0
(28.0)                 (0.5)                 (28.5)
Outside Plant                       34.5                              38.0       72.5
(34.5)                                       (34.5)
Customer Premises Equipment                                            7.0         7.0
Operations and Training Equipment   10.0                   1.0         4.0        15.0
(10.0)                 (1.0)                 (11.0)
Power Equipment, Towers,             3.0                              11.0        14.0
Vehicles & Misc.                   (3.0)                                         (3.0)
Civil Works:
Outside Piant works                                                   13.0        13.0
Buildings and sites                                                   27.0       27.0
C.onsultancy:                                              2.0                     2.0
(2.0)                  (2.0)
Total                             1HA                                          Z Z& 12
(114.0)                (20.0)                (134.0)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses indicate financing from the Bank loan. Costs have been rounded to nearest $0.5
million.
fa Direct purchase, international and local shopping, and Bank procedures for selection of consultants.
& NBF refers to nonBank-funded items and includes equipment, works and services and expenditures on
engineering and administrative overheads and also duties and taxes, all of which are funded by PLDT. The
cost of duties and taxes is estimated at US$40 million.
including powerplant equipment, network transmission monitoring equipment and
training aids. The equipment suppliers will be required to install outside
plant equipment and provide services for supervision of the installation of
most equipment items. Equipment needed to extend PLDT's most up-to-date, ex-
isting, digital telephone exchanges ($16.5 million, representing about 6X of
the total project cost) and expand existing multiplex radio systems ($0.5 mil-
lion) is of a proprietary nature and would therefore be procured directly from
the suppliers. Use of other equipment for these applications would not be
I
Pj,j-



.16-
economic. In order to ensure that negotiated prices for telephone exchange
equipment are reasonable, PLDT has agreed to engage an independent inspecting
firm (acceptable to the Bank) to confirm that the prices are comparable with,
or less than, international prices for similar equipment recently provided by
the supplier. Most contracts for goods procured under ICB are expected to be
awarded to foreign suppliers. PLDT proposes to procure telephone instruments
and small-size copper cables from local suppliers using its own funds. Con-
tracts for specialized training equipment costing less than $50,000 each with
a total value not exceeding $0.8 million may be procured through international
shopping; and smaller training support items such as personal computers cost-
ing less than $50,000 each with a total value not exceeding $0.2 million may
be procured using local shopping procedures. Bank financed project management
consultants (about $2 million) would be selected according to Bank guidelines.
2.25      All ICB contracts for goods estimated to cost more than $1.J mil-
lion individually, and all contracts for consultants services, will be subject
to prior review by the Bank. This would involve about 85% of the total value
of contracts to be financed by the Bank. The remaining Bank-financed contracts
would be subject to post-award review.
H. Disbursement
2.26      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a 6-year period.
Disbursements would be made as follows: (a) 100l foreign expenditures for
equipment and material imported directly; 10OZ ex-factory costs of local ex-
penditures for equipment and materials manufactured locally and 85X of expen-
ditures for other items procured locally; (b) 100l of total expenditures for
consultant services. Disbursements for equipment contracts with a value of
less than $1 million equivalent may be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). The supporting documents will-be retained by PLDT and will be avail-
able for review by supervision missions upon request. All other requests for
disbursement would be fully documented. To the extent possible, DBP and PLDT
would consolidate withdrawal applications for direct payment and reimbursement
procedures into amounts of not less than US$1.00 million equivalent prior to
presentation to the Bank. During appraisal, DBP and PLDT were assessed as
having the capacity to manage the above arrangements properly.
2.27      To facilitate project disbursement, a Special Account in a fully
convertible currency would be established by DBP. The authorized allocation
to the Special Account would be US$3 million, representing an estimated aver-
age of four months' disbursements. Replenishment of the Special Account would
be made quarterly or whenever the available balance in the account dropped
below 501 of the initial deposit. The Special Account would be established
with terms and conditions acceptable to IBRD including that: (a) the deposi-
tory bank for Special Account funds would be a commercial bank, and (b) DBP
should have direct and ready access to funds deposited. During negotiations,
(i) DBP agreed to have its records in relation to the Special Account audited
for each fiscal year and the results of the audit furnished to the Bank by
June 30 of the end of such year; and (ii) PLDT a3reed to have its records in
relation to Statement of Expenditures, being maintained for disbursement pur-



.17 -
poses, audited for each fiscal yenr and the results of the audit furnished to
the Bank by June 30 of the end of such year.
2.28      The project completion date for the proposed loan will be June 30,
1998, and the closing date of the loan will be December 31, 1998. For IFC
projects, PLDT has generally met its implementation targets apart from delays
in completing the assembly of project financing plans, regulatory clearance,
or equipment deliveries. Consequently, IFC has rated PLDT's project implemen-
tation capability as very good. These past problems have been addressed under
this project (para. 1.14). Furthermore, consultants are to be engaged under
the project to review, and if necessary, strengthen PLDT's project management
capabilities so as to avoid any delays that could occur as a result of the
proposed project stretching PLDT's project management capacity (para. 2.30).
The estimated disbursement schedule, given in Annex 2.6, is based upon the
profile for all Bank telecommunications projects during FYs 1978-90.
I. Project Implementation and Schedule
2.29      Responsibility for project implementation will be shared between
PLDT and the various suppliers and contractors. Path design, specification
and installation of most transmission systems are well within PLDT's capabili-
ties and will be undertaken by the Company. Switching systems and those
transmission and other systems relying on technology unfamiliar to PLDT will
be installed by PLDT's technical staff; suppliers will be contracted to pro-
vide adequate training to PLDT's staff and to supervise the installation. In
a manner similar to other PLDT projects, outside plant networks will be de-
signed by PLDT with contractors' assistance as required, and constructed and
tested by contractors under PLDT supervision; a combination of separate local
contractors and PLDT staff will wire customer premises and install new custom-
er telephone facilities. PLDT has invited bidders to pre-qualify for the out-
side plant supply and erect contracts, has prepared the bid documents for
switching equipment and generator sets, and is finalizing bid documents for
transmission equipment. A schedule of construction activities is given in
Annex 2.7.
2.30      PLDT will retain responsibility for managing its investment pro-
gram. Project management is the responsibility of a single division in PLDT
which already has two project management groups in operation. One of the
groups is responsible for managing the proposed project together with ongoing
works; the other group is responsible for managing the large X-5 and X-5C pro-
jects. Consultants are to be engaged under the proposed project to strengthen
PLDT's project management capabilities. The consultants are to review PLDT's
project management structure, work practices, training, and support systems
and recommend appropriate improvements; and assist with project management
where necessary. In their review, the consultants would be required to pay
particular attention to the adequacy of PLDT's preparations for managing the
proposed project and a key responsibility will be to ensure proper coordina-
tion between the two different project management groups. Draft terms of
reference for the consultants are given in Annex 2.8. During negotiations of
the proposed loan, PLDT agreed to appoint the management consultants, a:cord-



- 18-
ing to terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank,
not later than June 30, 1993.
J. Monitoring and Reporting
2.31      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring (i) the physical execution
of the project; (ii) project expenditures; and (iii) PLDT's technical, commer-
cial, and financial performance were developed at appraisal. PLDT will fur-
nish progress reports to the Bank every six months.
K. Supervision Plan
2.32      Supervision of this project will focus upon the following key im-
plementation aspects: (i) fast and effective procurement of goods and services
in the early stages of the project. (ii) implementation progress and coordina-
tion of the various project elements of civil works, switching, transmission,
outside plant and connection of customers; (iii) proper coordination of the
project with related elements of PLDT's other expansion program components;
(iv) compliance with financial covenants to assure the financial health of
PLDT while undertaking its large investment program; and (v) assurance that
adequate steps are taken to protect the environment. A substantial component
of supervision time would be spent reviewing and assisting the Government's
efforts toward strengthening sector management, mainly through the use of con-
sultants to be engaged under the Japanese Grant Facility (para. 1.15(e)).
Three missions annually for a period of five years are foreseen for adequate
supervision of this project. The total estimated staff inputs are: (a) a
telecommunications engineer and financial analyst, with assistance from an
economist being drawn as required -- 47 staff-weeks; and (b) a specialist on
telecommunications regulation and policy -- 15 staff-weeks.
L. Environment
2.33      The proposed project is not expected to cause any environmental
problems. Construction would involve some minor site clearing, and access
roads may be needed to reach transmission tower sites. Where optic fiber is
used, some plowing of cable trenches may be needed. However, these disrup-
tions normally follow existing power, road and rail alignments. The disrup-
tion of virgin land is expected to be minimal.
2.34      Because the project's impact on the environment is expected to be
minor, no special environmental assessment is needed. However, as designs and
contracting for the proposed project become more advanced, the measures that
PLDT proposes for protecting the environment would be assessed during project
supervision to ensure their conformity with both local guidelines and stan-
dards acceptable to the Bank.



3. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
A. Introduction
3.1       The Borrower of the proposed loan will be the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The Beneficiary will be the Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company (PLDT), which will receive the proceeds of the proposed loan
flom DBP according to acceptable onlending arrangements (para. 2.19), and will
use the funds to execute the project.
B. The Development Bank of the Philippines
Background
3.2       DBP was established in 1958 as a Government-owned development bank.
Until 1986, DBP's financing operations reached into almost all segments of the
economy, including large and small-scale enterprises. In addition to its
industrial, agricultural, real estate and transportation lending, DBP made
substantial loans to social sectors such as education and health care. Start-
ing in the 1970s, under the guise of its development mission, DBP financed
high risk and low return Government development programs ("directed" or "be-
hest" lending), as well as takeovers of financially distressed firms when so
directed by the Government. This lack of financial discipline in its lending,
compounded by serious weaknesses in its internal organization and procedures
(notably credit appraisal and supervision), led to massive defaults in its
portfolio and, in turn, serious financial prcblems.
3.3       With its resource mobilization c..apacity thus undermined, DBP had to
rely mainly on Government deposits for funding its activities. Still, its
financial difficulties were so severe that  8) several capital increases be-
tween 1972-80, (ii) substantial government deposits to shore up its liquidity
position, and (iii) various measures to strer *hen its organization and proce-
dures, all failed to prevent DBP's further firin'cial deterioration in the
early 1980s.  Serious portfolio arrears and poo- collection rates persisted;
all the same, the Government continued pressing IBP to make high-risk and low-
interest behest loans. Despite corrective action.; agreed with the Bank in the
context of various Bank operations (the last on; being the Industrial Finance
Project, Loan 1984-PH; 1981), DBP's financial and operationa'l performance
continued to deteriorate, culminating in a suspension of Bank lending to DBP.
DBP's Rehabilitation (1986-1989)
3.4       Following the change of Government in 1986, the severity of DBP's
problems and its technical bankruptcy were addressed by a comprehensive reha-
bilitation program that included a financial restructuring and reorganization
developed in conjunction with the Bank financed Economic Recovery Loan (ERL).
Those two provisions of the rehabilitation program, were implemented during
1987-89 and are now completed. DBP's Policy Statement, which was issued in



- 20 -
1989, provides for it to have: (a) a private sector orientation combined with
decision-making autonomy; (b) an interest rate and fees policy that (i) is
consistent with prevalent market rates and (ii) ensures full coverage of all
its direct and indirect costs, including provisions as required, plus an ade-
quate profit margin; (c) a prudent matching of interest rates and maturities
between its assets and liabilities; and (d) a debt-equity ratio not exceeding
5:1.
3.5       DBP now has a good management team.  Its financial indicators (cap-
ital adequacy, liquidity, return on equity, return on assets) are healthy and
in line with the leading private financial institutions in the Philippines
(Table 3.1). In 1989, the Bank agreed to finance the Industrial Investment
Credit (IIC) Project (Loan 3123-PH), with DBP acting as the apex organization
channelling investment funds to private industry through accredited partici-
pating financial institutions (PFI). Implementation of that project has so
far been satisfactory. Under IIC, DBP agreed to implement an Institutional
Development Plan (IDP) that defines and makes operational DBP's wholesale
banking strategy. In connection with this proposed project, DBP will continue
to implement the IDP, including (i) the market-oriented policies that form the
basis of its operations and (ii) the privatization of its retail operations.
In January 1991, DBP reaffirmed these principles in connection with a new Bank
loan for US$175 million (Loan 3287-PH) to finance the Industrial Restructuring
Project (IRP).
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF DBP'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1989-1991
(Peso billion)
Year                                              1989    1990    1991
Total Loans Outstanding                             5.7     9.2    15.3
Total Debt                                          5.3    10.0    20.2
Total Equity                                        6.3     6.9     7.3
Net Income                                          1.1     1.1     1.2
Ratios:
Debt/Equity                                         0.9     1.4     2.8
Net Worth/Risk Assets (X)                         100.5    71.6    42.9
Liquid Assets/Deposits (X)                       165.3   113.6   103.5
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts/                 24.0    11.9      8.4
Total Loans (X)
Net Interest Margin/Total Assets (X)                8.4     8.4     8.5
Return on Average Net Worth (X)                    17.5    17.5    16.8
Administrative Expenses/                            4.5     4.5     4.3
Average Total Assets (X)
Personnel Costs/Total Assets                        2.6     2.6     1.7



- 21 -
DBP's New Role and Strategic Orientation
3.6       DBP's financial restrv.cturing and the major elements of its insti-
tutional strengthening were completed in 1989. and left DBP solvent. As a
condition of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan of 1989, its role was rede-
fined so that DBP is now becoming a wholesale bank, which would mobilize and
channel term funds to the private sector through retail financial institu-
tions. Given the availability of domestic long-term funds from the Social
Security System, insurance companies and pension funds, DBP is expected to
play a major role in domestic resource mobilization and in developing domestic
capital markets. At the same time, DBP will be divesting itself of its retail
operations. A partial divestiture is expected in 1992. By separating DBP
from some of its more risk activities, this divestiture is likely to improve
DBP's financial prospects. Under the IIC and IRP, the Bank is monitoring
closely DBP's financial and operating performance, as well as its compliance
with the targets set out in its Policy Statement. Through conditionality
related to those two prcjects, the Bank will address on an ongoing basis any
activities or difficulties that would reduce DBP's ability to fulfill its
responsibilities under the proposed project,
3.7       In moving toward wholesale banking, DBP can only gradually increase
its reliance on domestic resource mobilization; in the short term, the lack of
a developed internal capital market and the Government's continuing needs to
tap domestic savings through high-yield Treasury bills would impede DBP's ef-
forts to raise significant long term local currency funds. Given these con-
straints, DBP will have to fund a significant proportion of its wholesale
banking activities from foreign sources in coming years. In this context, DBP
has been designated to serve as a conduit for official foreign borrowings,
channeling the proceeds through retail financial institutions for use in fi-
nancing private enterprises.
3.8       The onlending arrangements under the proposed loan are consistent
with DBP's reorientation into wholesale banking. DBP has performed due dili-
gence in satisfying itself with regard to PLDT's credit. Having decided that
the proposed transaction was attractive financially while also being consis-
tent with the Government's development objectives, DBP has structured the
arrangements in keeping with financial prudence principles. Not only is it
thus providing PLDT with much needed investment finance, but it is also en-
abling the participating banks to improve the return on their existing assets.
3.9       Under the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (1989) DBP's Board
adopted a policy statement spelling our operational and financial practices
and targets that it intends to meet in the future years. Moreover, it agreed
nether to amend nor abridge that policy statement without the bank's prior
consent. That policy statement continues to be relevant and appropriate. In
addition, during negotiations of the proposed loan, DBP agree to furnish to
the Bank by June 30 of each year, its annual financial statements for the
previous year certified by an auditor acceptable to the Bank.



- 22 -
C. The Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Background
3.10      Telephone service was introduced to the Philippines in 1905 with
the founding of the Philippine Islands Telephone and Telegraph Company. PLDT,
itself, was founded on November 28, 1928 with the Philippine Legislature's
passage of Act No. 3436, which incorporated the Company and vested it with a
50 year franchise to provide telephone service nationwide; that franchise was
extended by another 50 years in the late 1970s. Subsequently, PLDT acquired
the assets, franchises and businesses of the then existing telephone systems.
The Company's ownership passed to Filipino hands in 1967. While PLDT has sub-
stantially expanded its capital structure since ther, the interests that ac-
quired it in 1967 have continued to retain operating control over the Company.
Ownership
3.11      PLDT has nearly 500,000 holders of its common and preferred shares.
About 14% of its paid-in capital was raised from common stock, about 36% from
issues of cumulative non-convertible preferred stock, and the remaining 50%
from the Company's Subscriber Tnvestment Plant/. While the preferred
shareholders have the right to vote on capital increases, only common share-
holders may vote for directors, annual business, and auditors; as a result,
the common shareholders control the company. These arrangements vest inordi-
nately broad corporate powers in a narrow group of shareholders; still, this
is not expected to have any noticeable impact on the proposed project.
3.12      PLDT's common stock is traded not only on the Manila and Makati
Stock Exchanges, but also on the American Stock Exchange. About 39% of the
common stock is closely held by interests that have owned large blocks of
shares for many years. Another 30% is owned beneficially by U.S. based stock
brokerage firms on behalf of their investors; those holdings are generally
large blocks. Another 17% of the common stock is owned by foreign investors
and held abroad. The remaining 14% is held by investors in the Philippines.
While this includes some large blocks, it also includes many small holders.
Virtually all the common stock that is traded in the Philippines comes from
that last group of 14%.
!/   Under that plan, when subscribers receive their connections, they are
required to purchase 180 shares of preferred stock bearing a P 10 par
value and a coupon rate of 10%. Those shares are tradeable on the Ma-
nila and Makati Stock Exchanges. After one year, those preferred shares
are convertible to common stock at a 10% discount from the average mar-
ket price of the common stock on those Stock Exchanges.   In practice,
few of those preferred shares get converted to common stock. Their own
market value has tended to fluctuate with that of PLDT's common stock,
and the 10% dividend rate provides a higher pay out. Moreover, many
subscribers are not financially sophisticated and therefore unaware of
whatever may be the comparative advantages of converting these holdings
to common stock.



- 23 -
Organization, Management and Staff
3.13      PLDT's corporate powers are exercised by its eleven-member Board of
Directors. Each Board member is elected by the common shareholders to serve
until the next Annual Meeting and may be reelected without limitation. The
present Board consists primarily of senior executives drawn from the business
community and high level public servants. The Board meets once a month; the
Executive Committee may act as the Board between meetings. In addition, the
Board has a finance committee to consider financial matters; an Audit Commit-
tee to consider issues of internal audit; an Executive Compensation Committee
to set the pay of the Company's senior officers; and an Advisory Committee of
non-Board members to provide specialized advice to the Board members them-
selves.
3.14      PLDT's management is vested in its President, who is himself a Di-
rector and serves as the Company's Chief Executive Officer. He is appointed
each year at the first meeting of the reconstituted Board of Directors follow-
ing the Annual Meeting. The Board has also designated the Senior Executive
Vice President to serve as Chief Operating Officer.
3.15      PLDT's organization chart is presented in Annex 3.1.  The structure
presented therein is appropriate. The three line functions - operations,
finance and administration, and development and expansion - each report to an
Executive or Senior Vice President. Some of the staff functions - including
strategic planning, public affairs, internal audit, electronic data process-
ing, and management information systems - report directly to the President;
others - including corporate affairs, legal services, collections, and opera-
tions support - report to the Chief Operating Officer. All PLDT functions are
centralized except for operations, which is decentralized on a geographic
basis. PLDT's distribution of its manpower of 17,501 as of December 31, 1991,
is given in Annex 3.2; its staffing patterns are summarized in Annex 3.3.
Operation and Maintenance
3.16      PLDT is the country's largest telephone operator.  As of December
1990, its operations included ibout 600,000 working telephone lines (over 90X
of the cotntry total), of which 82% are located in the Metro Manila area.  The
remainder are spread throughout all Regions of the country, but centered most-
ly in the major cities and towns. PLDT also (i) operates a nationwide trans-
mission backbone network, through which it provides toll services for its own
consumers as well as for most of the small telephone operato:  Itara. 1.7);
(ii) switches almost all of the international telephone traffi.  o and from
the country through its four international gateways (para. 1.7); (iii) oper-
ates a mobile telephone service in Metro Manila and major towns throughout
Luzon; and (iv) provides leased line services to businesses (for data and
voice communications) and to record carriers for local loop connections for
record services.
3.17      Operations in Metro Manila are combined under one major grouping,
while operations in all other parts of the country are organized into a second
grouping. The Metro Manila grouping is organized into four divisions, with



- 24 -
each one having an exchange operations unit and a service center. Each ex-
change operating unit is responsible for the needs of all subscribers served
by the particular exchange, while the technical activity related to the provi-
sion of service is the responsibility of the centers. Similarly, the Metro
Manila divisions do not handle billings or collections. Outside Metro Manila,
operations are organized into one division for Luzon and a second for the
Visayas and Mindanao. Within those divisions, each exchange is responsible
for operations as well as the provision of service. While billing is still
centralized, the exchanges handle their own collections. The exchanges and
service centers are adequately staffed and equipped to handle operations and
maintenance requirements effectively.
3.18      PLDT's operational efficiency and service quality has been weak
compared with most other telephone operators in the ASEAN region. This weak-
ness is generally related to pcor outside plant, obsolete exchanges, and the
overloading of existing services resulting from high unmet demand. In addi-
tion, line and service staff are subject to heavy pressures from inadequately
served subscribers or unserved applicants. However, its expansion program is
Inter alla designed to bring about significant operational improvements.
Apart from providing high quality extensions to its networks, the expansion
program should significantly improve the technical performance of existing
netwoiks through specific upgrading measures and relief of congestion; this,
in turn, would enable improvements in staff related performance.
3.19      PLDT contemplates a number of initiatives to address operational
weaknesses. PLDT's ratio of staff per 1000 lines is 31; this is relatively
high compared with Korea (6), Malaysia (27), and Thailand (20), but better
than Indonesia (50).  PLDT plans to reduce this ratio to 22 by 1996 largely as
a result of operational economies of scale, which it believes can be realized
through expansion. PLDT plans also to reduce average faults per 100 lines per
month from 14 to 9 by 1996, largely through improved outside plant, rehabili-
tation and rearrangements of aging equipment, and replacement of obsolete
exchange equipment. Such a major improvement would bring PLDT's average fault
performance to a level comparable with Indonesiat/ and would build a sound
base for yet further improvements. PLDT has also begun a program to increase
the speed of service restoration; by 1996, the Company hopes to increase the
proportion of faulty services restored within 48 hours from the current 90X
level to 95X. This would be achieved largely through system improvements and
technical training.
3.20      One of the Government's important objectives is to improve the op-
erational performance of participants in the sector. To that extent, during
supervision of the proposed project, the Bank will want to monitor the effec-
tiveness of PLDT's performance improvement measures. During negotiations of
the proposed loan, PLDT agreed that, for the next five years, it will prepare
annually for joint review with the Bank, a comparative analysis of its actual
performance against a set of operational performance targets (Annex 3.4), and
to implement mutually acceptable recommendations to remedy any shortfall in
performance.
t/   This is still well below the Part 1 country standard; as an example, the
U.K.'s fault per 100 lines per month ratio is 2.0.



- 25 -
Development and Expansion
3.21      PLDT has a strong development planning group that has shown excel-
lent capabilities for formulating and implementing projects. The group has
demonstrated a facility for handling the full range of telephone technology.
The modesty of the Company's expansion in recent years (para. 1.10) has re-
sulted from political constraints and financial conservatism, and not from
inadequate facilities or staff.
Training
3.22      PLDT has a substantial and effective in-house training program.
The program focuses on (a) orientation of new staff; (b) skills development
for working level and clerical staff; (cj technical development, particularly
adapting to changing technology, for engineers and technicians; (d) issues
related to quality of service for all professional staff; (e) managerial
skills development for (i) existing managers, and (ii) staff identified as
having potential for promotion to management; and (f) communications courses
and training the trainer programs for staff of specially targeted units. In
addition, PLDT arranges for on-the-job or external training for deserving
staff to cover topics that are not available from the in-house program. These
arrangements are appropriate. PLDT is seeking to modernize its training
equipment to enable its staff to keep abreast of modern techniques and tech-
nology. The proposed project will provide this new equipment.
Accounting Systan
3.23      PLDT uses an accrual accounting system.  The system, which is based
on the practices followed by U.S. telephone companies, observes generally
accepted international accounting principles. PLDT presents two separate sets
of annual financial statements: (i) the first, which presents the Company's
financial condition to its shareholders, is based on valuing fixed assets at
historical cost, and (ii) the second, which is used for reporting to NTC, is
based on valuing assets at replacement cost. PLDT's accounting system, and
the practices it implies, are appropriate.
Jtnandail Planning and Budgeting
3.24      PLDT has well staffed units for financial planning and budgeting.
The financial planning unit has developed extensive integrated computerized
financial planning models, which are used primarily to test the impact of
investments and financial decisions, and to provide information to external
financiers. PLDT prepares budgets annually. The budget is revised periodi-
cally during the year, and comparisons of actual performance against budget is
a regular managerial exercise.



- 26 -
Commerial Systems
3.25      Most PLDT exchanges are equipped to generate a centralized automat-
ic metering accounting tape for recording toll calls; those few that are not
use digital systems to record toll calls, and billing records of those calls
are therefore generated manually. The records of toll calls are sent daily to
the electronic data processing department at headquarters, where the charges
are entered into the consumers' accounts. Bills are sent out monthly; to
regularize its cash flow, PLDT distributes its consumer accounts among six
different monthly billing cycles, each at five day intervals. Customers who
generate tolls exceeding P 2,000 within the first fifteen days of their cycle
receive an interim bill. Bills are delivered by hand by messenger service.
In the case of Government Offices and large industrial consumers, the messen-
ger service delivering the bill is responsible for returning as needed to
collect the payment. Other consumers may remit payment by cash or check at
any of PLDT's business offices, which are located near exchanges or spread
throughout its larger areas of operations. All consumers must pay by the last
day of the billing cycle, or the amount is shown on the next bill to be over-
due. About ten days after delivery of the next bill, PLDT sends a disconnect
notice to those accounts that are still outstanding. These notices are deliv-
ered by hand and include a delivery receipt. A consumer may be disconnected
after ten days following receipt of the notice. The Company is deliberate
about disconnecting consumers, so that this policy is effective.
Audit
3.26      PLDT has its annual financial statements audited for inclusion in
its Annual Report and presentation to its Annual Meeting. The accounting firm
of Sycip, Gorres, Velayo and Company (SGV), which enjoys a strong professional
reputation region-wide, has been reelected to serve as PLDT's external auditor
since the 1960s; SGV coordinates with Arthur Andersen and Co. for reporting to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. At negotiations, PLDT agreed
that, by June 30 of each year, it will furnish to the Bank audited financial
statements for the previous year, together with the certification and related
report prepared by an acceptable auditor.
3.27      PLDT has an extensive internal audit department.  This unit has
broad responsibilities, including: (i) safeguarding of assets; (ii) optimizing
the usage of assets; (iii) reviewing internal controls and ensuring that they
are followed; (iv) ensuring that Company policies are followed; (v) reviewing
systems and procedures for consistency with Company policy; (vi) ensuring the
consistency of all contracts and negotiated arrangements are consistent with
Company policy; and (vii) ensuring that all revenues are accounted for and
collected. Internal Audit verifies inputs to the Company's computerized ac-
counting system; this activity is then reviewed by the external auditor.
Taxes
3.28      PLDT is liable for income tax, assessed at 35X of income after in-
terest. The pre-tax income figure has been adjusted to recognize certain



* 27 -
expenditures related to foreign exchange losses and interest during construc-
tion that had been capitalized for reporting purposes as expenses during the
current year. The Company must also pay a franchise tax, assessed at 3X of
gross operating revenues, and real estate taxes. PLDT is liable for customs
duties in the range of 15-30% on all imports.
Insurance
3.29      PLDT insures its assets through a combination of self insurance and
commercially purchased policies. Risk management analyses are performed regu-
larly by the Company's security division. At appraisal, these practices were
reviewed and found satisfactory.
Dividends
3.30      PLDT has paid dividends on its common stock continuously since
1954. Since 1988, the amount paid has been P 3.20 per share, representing a
rate of about 4.5X on paid-in capital, and a yield of 3-5X on the recent mar-
ket price. In addition, PLDT has been paying dividends regularly on its vari-
ous series of cumulative preferred stock. Dividends on all common stock and
the 15X preferreds are declared quarterly; dividends on all other preferred
shares are declared semi-annually. These dividend levels are not excessive.
Moreover, as PLDT's shares are publicly listed in both the Philippines and the
U.S., its declarations of dividends are given widespread coverage. In the
current political and economic climate, PLDT wants to avoid appearances of
paying out large dividends at the expanse of service quality or expansion;
therefore, the publicity attendant to its declarations of dividends effective-
ly acts as a deterrent against possible excessive increases.



4. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Background
4.1       PLDT maintains its own accounts and manages its own financial af-
fairs. As such, it has authority to set prices, formulate its own investment
program, enter into contract with suppliers of goods and services, and borrow
from foreign, as well as domestic, lenders. However, its financial autonomy
is limited. As a carrier of a regulated service, its prices as well as its
planned investments are subject to NTC's approval. Despite its financial
strength (para. 4.2), PLDT's ability to raise needed capital from foreign
commercial sources is limited by lender concerns about country risk; thus, in
recent years, the Company has sought Government guarantees for official
foreign loans to supplement finance it is raising from commercial sources.
B. Past and Present Financial Performance
4.2       PLDT's financial performance for 1988-91 is presented in Annex 4.1
and summarized in Tables 4.1 and 4.2:
Table 4.1: PLDT's Key Financial Indicators - 1988-91
(Pesos Billion)
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31             1988    189      1990    1991
Actuals
OPERATING REVENUES                           7.7     9.5      12.8     16.6
OPERATING EXPENSES                           4.4     5.6      7.4       9.0
OPERATING INCOME                             3.3      3.8     5.4       7.6
NET INCOME                                   2.2     2.1      3.2       4.7
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                         1.9     3.3      5.5       7.7
REVALUED RATE BASE                          24.0     24.2     35.8     42.3
TOTAL ASSETS                                22.9     26.6     36.2     44.0
RETAINED EARNINGS                            3.9      5.6     8.5      12.7
4.3       PLDT experienced severe cash flow constraints in the mid 1980s.
However, during the last four years, the Company has recovered strongly and is
currently one of the healthiest in the Philippines. During this period, reve-
nues, expenditures and profitability all grew by about 29X per year. Much of
this growth resulted from the expanded use of existing facilities. The Com-
pany's rate base, after holding relatively static during 1987-89, grew by
about 0 17.6 billion (about 48X) in 1990 and P 6.5 billion (about 181) in
1991; of that amount, about P 11 billion represented new plant or work in
progress, while financial transactions related to the valuation of assets ac-
counted for the remainder. While these



* 29 -
Table 4.2:  PLDT's Key Financial Ratios - 1988-91
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31             1988     1989     1990     1991
Actuals
CURRENT RATIO                                1.5      1.7      1.6       1.4
QUICK RATIO                                  1.3      1.4      1.3       1.2
OPERATING RATIO                              57%      59%      58%       54%
NET PROFIT MARGIN                            29%      22%      25%      28%
INTEREST COVERAGE                            2.7      2.9      3.7       4.9
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                  1.9      1.8      2.3       2.4
DEBT/TOTAL EQUITY - WITH REVAL. SURPLUS     36:64    34:66    35:65    36:64
- W/OUT REVAL. SURPLUS        57:43    55:45    56:44    52:48
RETURN ON RATE BASE - HISTORICAL (X)         23%      20%      23%      22%
- REVALUED (%)                 11%     10%       9%       11%
SELF-FINANCING RATIO (%)                     74%      33%      78%      13%
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE - MONTHS                 4.0      3.1      3.0       2.5
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE - MONTHS                    2.3      3.3      3.2       4.2
results have been recorded in pesos, that currency held relatively stable at
P 22-US$1 from early 1987 through mid 1990; it then devalued to about P 28 -
US$1 by late 1990 and held steady at that level during 1991. Thus, about 38%
of the rate base increase in 1990 and about 20% of the increase in 1991 refl-
ect the changes in the value of the peso and not additions to plant in serv-
ice.
4.4       PLDT's key financial ratios for the 1988-91 period all portray a
picture of financial strength. The current, quick, interest coverage, debt
service coverage and self financing ratios are all comfortably high and point
to outstanding liquidity for a Company that provides a capital intensive ser-
vice. The drop in rate of return in 1990 and 1991 reflects the increase in
PLDT's rate base and not a diminution in the Company's performance. The one
area that may reveal some weakness is the debt/equity ratio, which at an aver-
age of 55:45 (net of revaluation reserve) is slightly higher than normal for a
telephone utility in this region. When considering that about half of PLDT's
paid in capital was raised through preferred shares that the subscribers must
purchase as a condition of obtaining their connections (para. 3.11), this
ratio indicates that capital solicited from bona fide investors is very thin.
Finally, the wide spread between the interest coverage and debt service cover-
age ratios reflects the lack of available long-term debt instruments in the
Philippine markets. Because the longest available instruments have a term of
three years, and because that maturity is frequently unavailable in periods of
exchange rate instability, PLDt must finance the local component of its in-
vestments with short-term loans; and its financing strategy presumes that it
will roll these loans over as they mature. This strategy is appropriate in
the context of the Philippines.
Regulatory LUmits on Revenues
4.5       PLDT must seek NTC's approval for revisions to its tariff.  NTC's
guidelines impose two important restrictions on the level of PLDT's revenues:



- 30 -
(i) after covering operating costs, revenues may yield no more than 12% on
PLDT's revalued rate base; and (ii) PLDT must remit a stipulated share of rev-
enues for toll calls to the local operators handling those calls. During the
last four years, PLDT has been sensitive to the political implications of ex-
cess profitability, and has adopted a tariff designed to yield 7-10% on its
revalued rate base. While revenues have thus been lower than the maximum al-
lowable, they have been sufficient to maintain the Company's financial health.
PLDT expects to continue observing a policy of pricing restraint during the
next few years. While the revenue sharing guidelines are expected to improve
the financial prospects of the smaller independent local carriers, the impact
on PLDT is not expected to be great. PLDT currently handles more than 90% of
local service and is expected to continue doing so for the foreseeable future.
Tadffs
4.6       PLDT's tariff includes provisions whereby its charges for local
service and international calls, which are denominated in Pesos, can be linked
to and therefore maintain parity with the US dollar; in contrast, rates for
internal long distance calls are denominated in Pesos and include no mechanism
to adjust for exchange rate fluctuations (a detailed discussion of PLDT's
tariff is given in Section B of Chapter 5). These arrangements do provide the
Company with substantial protection against variations in the peso-US dollar
exchange rate; however, they do not protect PLDT against variations between
the US dollar (or the peso) and other hard currencies.
4.7       Since the mid 1980s, PLDT has not sought changes to the U.S. dollar
equivalence of its local service charges or to the peso-denominated level of
domestic long distance tolls. However, in 1990 PLDT lowered its international
rates by 20%. This action represents the first appreciable change in the U.S.
dollar denominated value of thosef rates in more than five years. PLDT shares
revenue on outgoing international calls with destination countries and re-
ceives a share of revenues generated abroad for incoming international calls.
The Company estimates that incoming international calls outnumber outgoing
calls by about 9:1. When combining international net revenues (incoming and
outgoing) with local service revenues, about 90% of PLDT's revenues are effec-
tively indexed to the U.S. dollar. In recent years, these dollar-based reve-
nues have substantially exceeded PLDT's annual foreign exchange outflows.
Foreign Exchange Exposure
4.8       PLDT's ample dollar-based revenues enabled the Company to raise
considerable foreign debt. The Company has followed very prudent policies
with regard to its foreign exchange exposure. Because its revenues are U.S.
dollar related, the Company has limited itself, as far as practicable, to
raising U.S. dollar denominated loans. As the peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate
varies, the Company's dollar-based revenues adjusts in direct relationship
with the requirements for servicing this debt. This policy has enabled PLDT
to maintain control over its debt service obligations as a percentage of reve-
nues. As of December 31, 1990, PLDT had outstanding P 17 billion (about
US$607 million equivalent) in total lor.g-term debt. Some P 15 billion (about



- 31 -
US$536 million) of these estimated borrowings were expected to be denominated
in U.S. dollars, with the remainder being split between other foreign loans
and local currency debt. As such, PLDT's exposure to cross currency risk is
limited and well within its capacity to carry prudently; moreover, because it
has managed its foreign exchange exposure so prudently, the Company will con-
tinue to have ample capacity to borrow for the foreseeable future.
4.9       During the last four years, the Company has raised more than
P 10 billion in fresh loans to finance the X-5 Program and other ongoing in-
vestment activities. While PLDT's balance sheet is strong enough to accommo-
date the additional long term borrowings needed to finance the X-5C and other
planned investments, its capacity to borrow from commercial sources has been
tainted by issues related to counti.y risk. In particular, by participating in
the Government's debt rescheduling program in 1986, PLDT compromised somewhat
its credit with existing lenders. Although the Company has been remitting its
payments in pesos to the Central Bank on schedule, the lenders will receive
the corresponding payments from the Central Bank much later than was agreed
under the original loan agreements. When so requested by specific lenders,
PLDT has followed accepted practice by purchasing some of its obligations at a
discount; while this practice has provided financial advantages to both the
Company and the particular lenders, it has resulted in a linkage between
PLDT's credit and the commercial banking community's perception of country
risk.
Accounts Receivable
4.10      Despite effective billing and collection systems, PLDT's accounts
receivable still equal nearly three months' sales. This largely reflects the
time involved in settling accounts with other international carriers. Based
on the Company's experience with these transactions, PLDT would have difficul-
ty reducing accounts receivable below current levels.
Asset Valuation
4.11      Asset revaluation is only conducted every several years at irregu-
lar intervals, in connection with rate submissions to NTC. The revaluation
usually follows an engineering appraisal of PLDT's plant and equipment by an
independent firm. The last appraisal was conducted by the Asian Appraisal
Company, a Philippine firm enjoying a good reputation within the region. The
methodology followed is acccptable. Plant in service is revalued, but work-
in-progress is not. PLDT takes the results of asset revaluation into the ac-
counts it maintains for regulatory purposes; however, assets are valued at
historical cost in the accounts maintained for reporting to shareholders.
This practice is appropriate.
C. Financing Plan
4.12      PLDT's financing plan for 1992-96, the period of the proposed pro-
ject, is summarized in Table 4.3. The proposed project represents only 13X of



- 32 -
PLDT's investment program for tht 1992-96 period. The proposed Bank loan
represents only 7X of PLDT's external financing for the same period.
4.13      On an historical cost basis, the investments that PLDT will be im-
plementing during that period will more than double PLDT's rate base. PLDT
aims to realize a healthy growth rate of about 10 (para. 1.13(a)), at least
through 1998. Whether the Company can indeed realize this growth will depend
on its ability to raise the needed finance during a period when commercial
sources of credit are wary of increasing their exposure to Philippine risks.
Clearly, PLDT's investment program needs to be consistent with the Company's
financial and implementation capabilities. At negotiations of the proposed
loan, PLDT agreed to (i) conduct jointly with the Bank an annual review of its
investment program for the next five years and its investment accomplishments
for the previous two years, and (ii) adopt any mucually acceptable adjustmen-
ts.
Table 4.3: PLDT's Financing Plan - 1992-96
Pesos
Million          Percent
i. Internal Cash Generation
net of Working Capital Needs          30.803              55X
11. (Less): Debt Service
A. Long-Term Loans
Foreign Borrowings                    (16,187)            -27X
Local Currency Loans                  (6.182)             -10%
Subtotal                         (22,369)             -37%
B. Redemption of Preferred Shares          (517)              -1%
Total                            '22.8861              ; 
III. Funds Available for Cash Dividends      7.917
IV. Cash Dividends                         (2.247)               J1
V. Balance Available for Investment         5.670               au
VI. Construction
Proposed Project                         8,087               131
Other Capital Expenditures               52,217              871
Total                            60.304
VII. Balance Required to be Financed        54.634
VIII. Sources of Finance
Subscriber Investment Plan                 852               1I
Subscriber Deposits                        200                11
Proposed Bank Loan                       4,240                7%
Conercial or Other Borrowings            49,342              82%
Total                             54.634              9
4.14       PLDT plans to raise about 82% of its overall financing requirements
through commercial and other borrowings. International commercial banks are



- 33 -
expected to provide a portion of these needs, and international agencies that
serve the private sector, such as IFC and the Asian Development Finance Corpo-
ration (ADFC) are expected to provide still an additional portion of these
funds. However, the major portion is expected to be raised from supplier
credits in connection with the X-5 and X-5C programs. The financing plan for
the X-5 is fully confirmed and assembling the financing package for the X-5C
is virtually completed; the Bank's participation in PLDT's overall financing
plan appears to be having a catalytic effect on the process.
D. Future Finance
4.15      Financial projections for 1992-98 are presented in Annex 4.1.  A
summary of projected key financial indicators is given in Table 4.4, and a
projection of key financial ratios is provided in Table 4.5. These projec-
tions are based on the following:
(a) PLDT's local service charges and its international toll revenues
are expected to continued being related directly to the U.S. dol-
lar. Similarly, its domestic long distance revenues are expected
to continue being denominated in pesos.
(b) The peso-U.S. dollar exchange rata is expected to decline each year
during the projection period in relation to the difference between
the assumed local inflation rate (10%) and the assumed inter-
national inflation rate (3.9%).
(c) The scope of PLDT's service is expected to grow substantially dur-
ing the projection period. Average annual growth in (i) the number
of working stations is projected to be about 15%, and (ii) the vol-
ume of overseas toll calls is projected to be about 12%. The bulk
of this growth is expected to be realized during 1992-96, as PLDT
completes various components of the X-5, X-5C, the proposed proj-
ect, and other investments cu:rently under implementation.
(d) Through 1996, PLDT's investment program is dominated by prejects
tv-it are well defined (the X-5, X-5C, and the proposed project), so
that the annual cash flow for investment may be projected within
reasonable levels of tolerance. Beginning in mid-1994, the invest-
ment program is projected to be dominated by the X-6. While the
framework for that project has been developed, some details have
yet to be defined in detail. Therefore, the projections assume
investment streams for the X-6 and notional investments for other
projects yet to be identified starting at about P 3 billion in
1994, moving to about P 14 billion in 1995, and stabilizing there-
after at about P 10 billion.
(e) The Company has agreed, under existing loans, to meet financial
performance targets different from those that will be sought under
the proposed loan. These targets include interest coverage and a
variety of operating and liquidity ratios. The projections were



Table 4.4: 1991-98 KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
(Pesos Billion)
Operat  Revenues                     16.6    17.9    20.8    24.4    29.1    34.7    41.4    49.4
Operating Expenses                    9.0    10.6    12.7    15.0    17.5    19.8    22.9    25.9
Operating Income                      7.6     7.3    8.1      9.4    11.6    14.9    18.6    23.5
Net Income                            4.7     4.8     4.8     5.1     5.4     5.9      7.4    10.2
Capit Expenditure                     7.7     8.8    12.7    14.0    15.3      9.4     9.5    10.0
Rate Base                            42.3    58.5    75.1    96.7   121.6   147.6   170.8   196.5
Total Assets                         44.0    52.9    66.3    81.9    98.7   109.3   118.4   127.3
Retaned Earnigs                      1 2.7    17.1    21.5    26.1    31.0    36.4    43.3    53.1
Table 4.5:  1991-98 KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS
Current Ratio                         1.4     1.4     1.1     1.4      1.1     1.3     1.1     1.3
Quick Ratio                           1.2     1.1     0.9     1.1     0.9      1.0     0.9     1.0
Operating Ratio -                     54%     59%     61%     61%     60%    57%      55%      529
Net Profit Margin-(%)                 28      27      23%     21      189     174      181    21
Interest Coverage                     4.9     4.7     2.7     2.3     2.0     2.0      2.3     2.8
Debt Service Coverage                 2.4     1.9     1.5     1.3      1.4     1.3     1.5     1.5
DebtaTotl Equity - with Reval. Surplus  36:64   39:61   42:58   48:52   50:50   50:50   46:54   42:58
- WlOut Reval. Surplus   52:48   52:48   54:46   57:43   57:43   56:44   51:49   46:54
Retum on Rate Base - Historical()     22      17      16%     15%     15%     15      17%      198
- Revalued(9)        11.      89      8%      89      8%       8%      8       9%
Self Flnancng Ratio - (%)             13%     256    236       59     16       8       51%    421
Accowunts Receivable - Monfts         2.5     2.5     2.9     2.9     2.9      2.9     2.9     2.9
Acoounts Payable - Months             4.2     3.1     3.0     2.9     2.8     2.8      2.8     2.8



- 35 -
formulated to ensure that PLDT complies with all its agreed targets, not only
the covenants that will be sought in conjunction with the proposed loan.
4.16      PLDT believes that its projected growth rates, combined with its
current rate levels, should enable it to realize an 8% rate of return on its
revalued average net fixed assets in operation during 1992-98. Its financial
performance based on this assumption would be consistently satisfactory thr-
oughout the period. At negotiations PLDT formalized this expectation by ag-
reeing to take steps, including inter alia proposing increases to its tariff
as needed, to cover all expenses including depreciation and taxes, and yield
at least an 8% return on its revalued net fixe.d assets in operation. To en-
courage effective debt management, PLDT also agreed to incur additional debt
only if a reasonable forecast of its net revenues after expenditures for each
year during the term of the debt to be incurred would be at least 1.1 times
its projected debt service requirement. This latter target is somewhat lower
than what PLDT is projecting; however, it reflects the uncertainty shared by
PLDT and the Bank about whether PLDT's local debt can consistently be rolled
over for three years at a time. If the maturities of local borrowers would be
for two years instead of three, the debt service coverage ratio would drop to
1.1. This would affect PLDT's cash flow, but not its accrual performance.
4.17      The projections indicate that while PLDT is expected to remain fi-
nancially strong, it is facing a period of high growth. Revenues and profit-
ability are projected to grow by about 17X and 12% per year, respectively. In
the same period, PLDT's rate base is expected to increase by nearly 370%, or
24% per year; at the same time, total assets are expected to increase by about
190%, or about 16% a year. The Company is projecting some cash flow stringen-
cy throughout the period, but especially during the years of heaviest invest-
ment expenditure, 1994-96. For the whole period PLDT is projecting an average
self-financing ratio (SFR) of about 20%, and a debt service coverage ratio of
about 2.1. However, for 1994-96, this ratio is expected to average about 10%
for the whole 1992-98 period; the debt service coverage ratio is expected to
average about 1.6; however, this ratio will average about 1.3 for 1994-96.
This is acceptable.



5. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Beneflts
5.1       The benefits of the project would accrue to all sectors of the com-
munity through improved access to telephone facilities and improved network
quality. Because the project aims to partly correct the imbalance in services
between major cities and provincial areas, the greatest benefits are likely to
accrue to businesses and the public in the 128 provincial municipalities where
new and expanded facilities will markedly improve existing communication ser-
vices. Mostly these are areas recognized by the Government as offering high
economic returns from investment in infrastructure. Here, access to modern
telecommunications services will help stimulate growth and investments and
increase the efficiency of market systems between (i) adjacent provincial com-
munities, and (ii) provincial areas and the major cities. In addition, spec-
ial emphasis on providing new facilities for seven industrial estates will
help attract the development of secondary industries which are crucial to
Philippine economic growth. Existing telephone services will benefit from the
increase in access to about 149,000 new working telephone lines; the intercon-
nection if 6 isolated exchanges to the national telephone network; and the ex-
pected improvements in network and operator performance quality resulting from
PLDT's overall development program of which the proposed project is a part.
5.2       In addition, the installation of rural PCOs in 97 municipalities
without telephone service will provide these communities with basil' access to
telecommunication services and thereby improve their participation in the
Philippines economy. Benefits to these communities will include more effic-
ient use of high cost transportation services, improved access to market in-
formation, and extension of Government services. Apart from direct benefits
to businesses, the provision of modern telephone facilities will add to the
quality of life by providing voice communication opportunities between sepa-
rated family members and improving the performance of public oriented servic-
es; especially medical and emergency relief.
5.3       The Government will also benefit, first as a user of telecommunica-
tions services and second through increased transfers from the sector as a re-
sult of increased revenue generation and more efficient use of sector resourc-
es. During 1991-1997 PLDT is expected to provide an additional US$75 million
to the Government in the form of duties and taxes as a result of the project.
B. Tariffs
5.4       PLDT's telephone tariffs (summarized in Annex 5.1) consist of an
installation charge, fixed monthly network access charges (monthly rental) and
call charges for domestic long distance and international (toll) calls. The
monthly network access charges also entitle the customer to unlimited local
calling as the tariff does not include separate charges for local calls. In



- 37 -
addition, a compulsory subscriber investment plan that requires subscribers to
buy PLDT shares when ordering new installations, generates equity for PLDT and
has a dampening effect on demand.
5.5       The key factors on which tariffs are determined are: (a) overall
tariff revenues to PLDT may not yield more than a 12% return on a rate base of
revalued assets plus an allowance for operating expenses; (b) monthly rental
charges are linked to the US$ exchange rate; and (c) charges for international
calls are set in US$ and converted to pesos at the prevailing exchange rate.
PLDT regularly seeks NTC review of rental charges pegged to foreign exchange.
Appropriate adjustments are normally granted automatically.
5.6       The overall level of the tariff and the resulting revenues are ade-
quate to support and justify the proposed network expansion under this project
as indicated by the financial rate of returr. (para. 5.9). Furthermore, the
tariffs recover the long run incremental costs of the local network and long
distance project components respectively. Thus, revenues from local network
access resulting from PLDT's expansion program are estimated at P53,000 per
subscriber vs. long run incremental costs of P52,000 per subscriber. Domestic
long distance plus international revenues resulting from the program are esti-
mated at P137,000 per suvuu.Uber vs. long run incremental traffic sensitive
costs of P74000 per subscriber.
5.7       Nevertheless, PLDT is aware that its tariffs are not optimized in
the following respects: (a) monthly rental charges barely cover their long-
run incremental costs and should be reviewed; (b) local call charges (pres-
ently free) should be introduced, at least during periods when local network
congestion occurs; (c) national long-distance charges are believed to be below
cost and should be increased; (d) PLDT is too dependent on excessively high
international charges; and (e) PLDT's tariff structure is much too complex
with 15 local service location classes, each with their own tariff, and 59
domestic toll distance bands; simplification is warranted.
5.8       In the difficult area of obtaining government authorization for
private monopoly or utility price changes, both PLDT and NTC deserve some
credit for instituting a system which involves a considerable amount of auto-
maticity in tariff adjustments and which is related to costs on a company-wide
basis. Nevertheless, over the medium term, the tariff structure should be
reviewed and important improvements introduced. Accordingly, during negotia-
tions, the Government provided the Bank with a letter through which it indi-
cated its intention to develop a policy framework within which the structure
of telephone tariffs could be reviewed jointly by NTC and the Bank (para.
1.16).
C. Return on Investment
5.9       The internal rate of return of the project based on financial flows
(FRR) is 15X which justifies the investment as it is considered to be well
above the cost of capital for this type of project. A summary of the calcula-
tion results is given in Annex 5.2. The economic rate of return (ERR) is cal-
culated at 211. The ERR is greater than the FRR due to the elimination of tax



- 38 -
and duties, and the adjustment of unskilled labor rates using a conversion
factor of 0.8. The resultant ERR is considered conservative and does not take
into account consumer surplus and the benefits that accrue to the economy as a
whole as a result of improved telecommunications services. Because these
factors are difficult to quantify they are not included. In testing the sen-
sitivity of the ERR, the most likely worst case scenarios and their effect on
the ERR would be: (a) a delay of 18 months in connection of new customers re-
sulting in a delayed revenue stream (ERR - 14%); (b) an increase of 10% in
operating costs (ERR - 20%); (c) a reduction in tariffs resulting in a fall in
operating revenue by 10% (ERR - 15%); and (d) a small increase of 5% in in-
vestment costs, over and above the project contingency allowances (ERR - 19%).
Combining the above would result in a fall in the estimated ERR to 11%. While
such a combination of events is unlikely, after taking into account the un-
quantifiable benefits resulting from the project, under this worst case sce-
nario the project would still be acceptable.
D. Least Cost Solution
5.10      The proposed project represents the least cost solution for expand-
ing and modernizing PLDT's existing network. Standard telecommunications
planning principles have been used in determining the most appropriate type of
equipment and locations for telephone and transmission systems. Detailed
design of outside plant networks will be undertaken by consultants, who will
be required to tailor the local networks to serve demand locations using stan-
dard minimum net present value dimensioning methods. The modernization pro-
gram includes the replacement of obsolete exchanges that cannot be expanded
further and those for which the high cost of operations and spare parts is too
great to justify the exchange's retention.
L. Project Risks
5.11      There are no significant risks associated with the project.  Howev-
er, although PLDT's project management capabilities are assessed by IFC as
being very good (para. 1.14), taking into account that the proposed project
needs to be managed in conjunction with the ongoing X-5 and X-5C projects and
would extend PLDT's project management capacity beyond previous experience,
project management consultants are to be engaged under the project. These
consultants would assess and, if necessary, strengther. PLDT's project manage-
ment capabilities (para. 2.30).



6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached
6.1       The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
The Government agreed to:
(a)  (i) furnish to the Bank a summary of the results of its annual re-
view of the implementation of its telecommunications policies; and
(ii) seek the Bank's comments if major changes in any of these pol-
icy are expected (para. 1.16)
DBP agr6eed to:
(a)  furnish to the Bank by June 30 of each year, a copy of its annual
financial statements certified by an acceptable auditor (para. 3.9)
(b)  have its records in relation to the Special Account audited for
each fiscal year, and the results of the audit furnished to the
Bank by June 30 of such year (para. 2.27)
PLDT agreed to:
(a)  appoint management consultants, according to terms of reference and
a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank, by not later than
June 30, 1993. (para. 2.30)
(b) have its records in relation to Statement of Expenditures, being
maintained for disbursement purposes, audited for each fiscal year
and the results of the audit furnished to the Bank by June 30 of
the end of such year (para. 2.27)
(c)  furnish to the Bank by June 30 of each year audited financial
statements for the previous year, together with the certification
and related report prepared by an acceptable auditor (para. 3.26)
(d)  (i) for the next five years, prepare annually for joint review with
the Bank, a comparative analysis of its actual performance against
targets for its construction program and its operations; and (ii)
implement mutually acceptable recommendations to remedy any short-
falls in performance (para. 3.20)
(e)  (i) conduct jointly with the Bank an annual review of its invest-
ment program for the next five years and its investment accom-
plishments for the previous two years, and (ii) adopt any mutually
acceptable adjustments (para. 4.13)



- 40 ^
(f) take all necessary steps, including Inter alla proposing increases
to its tariff as needed, to cover all expenses including deprecia-
tion and taxes, and yield at least an 8% return on its revalued net
fixed assets in operation (para. 4.16)
(g) incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its net rev-
enues after expenditures for each year during the term of the debt
to be incurred would be at least 1.1 times its projected debt ser-
vice requirement (para. 4.16)
6.2       Following negotiations the Government sent a letter (Annex 1.4) to
the Bank confirming that it would:
(a) conduct an annual review of progress with regard to implementing
its policies and plans, including the provisions of Departmental
Circular 90-252;
(b) by January 1, 1994, review its policy framework including the
structure of telephone tariffs; and
(c) share with the Bank the results of those reviews and, if feasible,
implement the recommendations reached.
Moreover, the letter affirmed that the Government would share with the Bank
the results of these and other reviews that might result in major changes in
sector development policy, and solicit the Bank's views prior to deciding any
such changes.
6.3       The conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 2.23)
would be the execution of satisfactory documents for:
(a) onlending to the syndicate and syndicate operations (between DBP
and the other participating Banks);
(b) onlending to PLDT (between the syndicate members and PLDT); and
(c) guarantee of the Bank loan, coverage of the cross currency risk,
and secondary lending (between the Government and DBP).
B. Recommendation
6.4       Under the agreements reached on the above items. the project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$134 million equivalent to be
lent to DBP. This loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace on repayment of principal, and carry the standard variable interest
rate.
o0o.



ANNEXES



n m       Iw r>c4O >
jI  iI~~IiI IIiI III I Ii ul1 1S
-    - -     - -   - -     - -    - -     - - - - i
[bIll~~ -------- ----
*   ii|f is||        #i                 -' sX3  
1    1   1                                         - Bx    -  -  -  -  -  - -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -- 
T T X       |Nl T_ 
3. II                                                                                                                                             
e    X  - - - -    - - - - - - = - - -. -; -   
t ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~       ____  _     __ Ii
VT  ~____ XugtlNflI4 -; -



- 43 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 1 of 2
Republic of the Philippines
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION & COMMUNICATIONS
OFFICE OF THE SECRETA;RY
10 Aupst 1990.
Department Circular No. 90 -252
8Ubject:   Policies  to  Promote  the  Raapid  Expansion   of
Telecommunicitions in all Regions
The Government's primary goal for the telecommunications sector
is growth to the maximum extent within the shortest time
practicable,    warranted.  by  demand    and    by    resource
constraints, ..pqticularly foreign exchange availability.
The earthquake disaster has demonstrated anew the immediate need
for  the rapid provision of improved telecommunications  services
and  facilities in all areas of the Philippines, over  and  above
the initiatives that are already underway.
In support of this urgent need, it is hereby declared that:
1.  The government will rely on the private sector to build  and.
operate telecommunications facilities in all regions, all
such facilities to be interconnected to form part of a
single  national network with appropriate   revenue  sharing
arrangements as enunciated in Department Circular 90-248 and
promulgated   in  National   Telecommunications   Commission
Memorandum Circular 7-13-90.
2.   As   soon  as suitably qualified private  operators  can  be
found,   the   government  will   privatize   its   existing
telecommunications operations, and will only enter into  new
ventures when there is no private sector alternative and as
a temporary arrangement.
3.   The  National Telecommunications Commission is  directed  to
establish abbreviated procedures to ensure rapid approval of
viable projects proposed by the private sector which can be
implemented on a timely.basis.
pIHILCOMCEN BLDG.. ORTIGAS AVE.. PASIG. METRO MANILA, PRILIPPINES
TEL. NO. 721-3781 up to 92 Loc 221. 222,.233
01. 771.rnV7 ton n" P9 TLX NO. 4221 Io=C PM



- 44 -
ANNE 1. 2
Page 2 of 2
4.   The government will establish arrangements whereby  official
development assistance funding can be made available to the
private sector to finance construction of new facilities
which further the government objectives.
Pursuant  to  the policies enunciated above,  the  Department  of
Transportation,  and  Communications  hereby  invites   qualified
private  sector  entities  to submit  projects  to  the  National
Telecommunications  Commission  for their  prompt  approval.  The
Commission shall give priority consideration to initiatives which
result  in  immediate  expansion  of  service  to  unserved   and
underserved rural areas.
This circular takes effect immediately.
Sr. ORBOS
8ecretary .



-45-
ANNEX 1.3
Page 1 of 3
Republic of the Philippines
OEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION & COMMUNICATIONS
O9FICE OF THE SECRETARY
DEPAM    ETORDER f 90-483 ^  FORMATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
POLICY DIRECTORATE
1  . BACKGROVND
The govenment is committed at the highest levels to mobilizng the pdivate sector In
expanding the country's telecom infhstruture, and privatzing those government-
owned fcilities that can be operated more efficiently by the private sector, and thus
lessen the burden on the public purse. In the case of telecommunications, Department
Circular No. 90-252, dated August 10, 1990, stated that the government will:
*     rely on the private sector to build and operate telecommunications
facilities in all regions.
*     privatize its existing telecommunications operations, and will only
enter into new ventures when there Is no private sector alternative
*ad only as a temporary amngement.
Iassist in on-lending ODA funds to the private sector.
Pursuant to these high-level policies, there is an effort underway to privatize the
fai;lities instlled under RTDP Phase A, and eventually Phase B. rn addition, the
STPMO management is worlkng on a method for ensuring that the facilities of the
NTP are transferred to private sector operators, and the World Bank has committed
funds to assist in the process. The MIPO has received submissions from aU major
prve sector firms who wish to participate in the municipal tephone program.
Only when these objectives can be met will the government be able to assume Its
rightful rolas a leader and facilitator, not a competitor ti the private sector, upon
whom the nation will depend for the upgrading of its telecommunicatons
Inrsrctr
2   POIUCY D!PLEMENTATION
The MTPO Initiative, and the fast trac development theme championed by the
department have galvanized the thinking of private sector operators, who realize that
this is the time when the teuitory of the Philippines may wel be allocated amongst
1
PNILCOMCEN BLDG, ORNI1AS AME PASIG, MERMO MANLA, PHlPINES
EL NaO  86 up to 5 a m.m  23



- 46 -                                  ANNEX 1.3_
Page 2 of 3
them for the long term. Thus, they have all staked claims over regions of the country
aiming to ensure an effective preence in the nation's telecommunications future.
Now Is the time for the government to demonstrate that it is serious about harnessing
the energies of the private sector to get the job done. As regions are assigned to
opaerators, they must take over govemment faciliies in their serving area, where they
will be the primary service provider, with the obligation to serve the oft region,
not just the profitable parts.
It Is essental that Ai elements of the government's involvement in telecommunicadons
be rationalized under this theme. Thus, it is necessary to develop a comprehensive
implementation strategy and timetable for achieving the goal. The effort must be seen
as hivlng support at the top, and the process conducted in as transparent a fashion as
possible, thus ensuring that there is public accountability for the results.
3   IMPLEMTATION STRATEGY
A special Telecommunications Policy Directorate is hereby appointed, reporting to the
Secretary, to accomplish the following:
D     to develop a comprehensive strategy for the privatizing of aUl government
telecom facilities, to be presented to the Secretary within 90 days of approval;
o     to include in the strategy the facilities of:
5 the RTDP (Ph   A and B);
MITPO projects;
- STPMO projects;
* TELOF; and
* DOMSAT.
O      to address the folIowing Issues as part of the strategy:
* modes of transfer - lease, sale etc;
* use of and access to ODA funding;
* choice of operators;
fnancial aspect, including txation;
2



-47-                                  ANNMC 1.3
Page 3 of 3
menue shaig;
reg ulato,requimnients;
' policy Implications; and
* tariff concems.
It is noted  a the aforementoned RTDP project is alrady underway. This may
serve as a modd for other proects aimed at pzvalzing etg  cili   In the case
of MTPO, It is urgent that the tak force develop a plan to ensure that A PCO's
under Phase 1 of the project be allocated to pivate sector operators as soon as
possible, and that the CMDA fuding coveting the foreign exchange part of the project
be made available under appropriate tem, to such private sector firms. This should
serve as a model for the NTP projects, and fut  phases of the MTPOprogram.
4   STUCTURE
The Telecommunications Policy Directorate will comprise Undersecretaries l.T.
Lichauco. R.V. Sibal and R.L de Vera, with Assecs. C.L. Royeca and J.V. Pars of
the MTPO. Assec. Royeca is appointed Director, Policy Inplemenrion, in which
capaty he will oversee the work of specialized teams of DOTC and NTC staff,
supported by cosng resources as required, to translate these broad policy
objectives into concmte actions )c   4es    f; aS- c
5   ACTION PLAN
The work is to be completed in 90 days. The aim is to develop a concrt strategic
plan for achieving the privatadon objecive, including any necssary policy changes
needed to support the plan.
6  RESOURCE REQUtEl}TS
Departmental, NTC and consultng resources wi  be required to supprt the effort.
Assec. Royeca wi  identf the specific individuals to be recommended for
assignment to the wnor    teams.
* Dept. of Transportation
and Com
November2 19V90
3



- 48                               A-*= 1.4
ReubUl of fth PNUWes
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION &.COMMUNICATIONS
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
05 MaY 1992
Mr. Callisto Maduvo
Director
The World Bank
1818 H Street. N.W.
Washinoton, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr. Madavo:
Pursuant to its mandato to toste-r and develop aPproporiate
telcommunioations sYstems in the PhiliPPines, the oepdrtment of
TransPortation and Communications Intends to, inter alia:
(a)  conduct an annual roview with regard to the implementg-
tion of its telecommunmoutLons policies as enunciated
in ox3sting laws, circulars (e.9., DOTC Circular Number
90-252) and olons (e.*., tho National Telecommunioa-
tionr Devolopment Plan) ot the Republiv of the Philip-
pines;
(b) update by January 1994, Its Policy framework within
which the structure of telecommunications taritffs,
among others, will be reviewed; and
(a) adopt, if feasible, the recommendations roached by
those reviews.
The Department further int*nds to share the results of these
reviews with the World Bank, ard, if appropriate, seek its com-
ments particularly if they affect or result in major changes in
any existing telecommunications policies ** enunciated Previously
in various laws, qiroulars, and plans of the Republic of the
Philippines.
CTE N EC0M1SDI$PZRADO
Secretary
pHILCOMCEN LOG., OMTROM AM PA6 MEO MANILA. Pt PP
TML NO. 634S. up to as La& 3= 23
DL U14741 up to i LK NO.3 1 OOTC PM



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.1
PHfl~EP
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long DWstance Telephone Company
Details of X-5. X-SC and 'Other Works' Projects
X-5 Proiect
This project provides new telecommunications equipment throughout the Philippines. Local telephone
exchanges with a capacity of about 133,000 new lines including the replacement of 15 electromechanical
exchanges serving about 11,000 customers will be provided along with 2 trunk exchanges with a capacity of
11,000 trunks. Major 140 Mbps radio transmission systems with a total of 84 hops and optical fiber systems
with 33 links of 140 Mbps or greater capacity will be installed to upgrade existing interexchange links
throughout the Philippines. A total of about 3,600 fiber - km. of optic fiber cable and 381,000 pair km. of
copper cable will installed along with about 145,000 telephone instruments and 684 PABX's. Associated
power equipment, buildings, vehicles, etc. are to be provided
The X-5 - Comolementarv Proiect (X-5C)
This project will follow and complement the X-5 project. Exchanges with a capacity of about
385,000 lines, including the replacement of 33 electromechanical exchanges serving about 150,000 working
lines will be provided throughout the Philippines. Toll facilities will be expanded through the provision of 4
new, and expansion of 18 existing, SPC-D exchanges. To cater for the Increased traffic, a major expansion of
PLDT's transmission network will be made including a new undersea cable linking Manila, Cebu and Cagayan-
de Oro. Major transmission equipment will include optic fiber systems with a total of 49 x 565 Mbps and 53 x
140 Mbps lines and 140 Mbps microwave radio systems with a total of 10 hops. A total of about 13,600
fiber km. of optic fiber cable and about 2 million pair-km of copper cable will be installed along with about
371,000 telephone instruments and 829 PABx's. Associated power equipment, buildings, vehicles, etc. will
be provided.
'Other Works' Proiect
This project includes the following:
1.     Cable rehabilitation in Manila and the Provinces
2.     Buildings and civil works (various).
3.     Upgrading small radio systems.
4      Upgrading and provision of new toll spur stations and interconnection of small operator
exchanges.
5.     Provision of new exchange supervisory systems. (Manila and Provinces).
6.     Upgrading exchange power systems.
7.     Expansion of some SPC-D exchanges.
8.     Provision of Public Call offices.
9.     Provision of Coin telephones.
10.    Provision of the Eastem Visayas backbone trunk network.
11.    Various TDMA radio systems for connecting customers to exchanges.
12.    PLDT's portion of the Brunei-Malaysia-Philippine undersea cable plus its extension from its
landing site in Southem Luzon to Manila.
AX21X5D5.8A



50
TEi.HN  SYTE  ExPANSIaOi NtCT
PHILIPPPIE  LON DISTNE TS            m
FACILITInS TO BE PRa0Di0
Mmguii ios       Piblic    Digftit
Toll Inter-   ultan KUdea      Cott    Leae
A. SUITCHING FACILITIES
1. Local Exihw
1.1 MNw                  51,900 ltnf              -   1,600 lfnes                            23,000 tfnes   76,500 lines
1.2 Epxwsion             26,100 tines                    -                     -          -   7,100 lines   33,200 lins
2. Coabined Local/Toll       14,000 lins t                                        -          -   9,400 lines  2,400 lins
Exw
3. Coapltuntary Trunk           5  ckts.       .     -       90 ckts.      30 ckta.                         -      690 ekts.
Terms
S. TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
1. Point-to-Pofit Radfo/ISa
1.1 140 Mbps                    lays n                                                                  -           lsys
1.2 34 Mbps                    11ys           Ss"            l ys                                   Tsys           24 ys
1.3  8 Mbps                    26sys          1 ys           Iys                    -               l  ys          29 ays
1.4  2 Mbps                                       -                                                     -           0
2. Pofnt-to-Mutlpoiont RadfQiox         -            -                       13 O.8 ;                      -         13 o.&.
3. VSAT Te1minal t                                                                                         -           0
4. Optfeal Ternatl Eqpt.*dc
4.1 140 Mbps                    4 sys             -              -                        -             -           4 ys
4.2 34 bs                       12sYs             -                                       -          sYs           2  ys
S. Cellular Radfo Teromnal                                          -     s  tarm.                         -      588 tuez.
6. P01 Systen                    5 term.             -       14 trm                -      76 term.          -     195 term.
7. TDO                                                                                    190 units                290 units
8. OCE                                               -              -              -   10t004 unts          -   10.004 units
9. Nultiplex Eqpt.               272 din.                                                                                  -  m in.
C. CABLE
1. Fiber Optic Cable           303 pr-b                             -             -         -      158 Pr                pr-1 b
2. Coper Cable
2.1 Tru*inw                  110-pr-b             -      320 pr-b                                       -       430 pr-b
2.2 Sub fcriber Plant    19,788 pr-b             -   3,699 pr-b                         -   71,652 pr-i.  275,139 pr-bs
0. CUITW    PREMISES EPT.
1. Tetleone Instrumnt        95,315 unfts            -   1600 wits        938  ifts          -  39,939 unfts  137,78 units
2. PABX                          99 units            -                                              26 unft        12  nits
E.  INFRASTRUCTURE
1. PoWer G    tor                33,t                         lasts               -          *        9 "to          47eeOm
2. DC Powr Ef puent               19 St        11 es          IeMt                -                    lt            32 be
3. Uuildieg                      61 soto             -        S sites                        -       20 aft.        86 sito
4. Antem  Tomer                  31 site       6 sftes        I alt.       111 sIfte                  6 site       155 ofits
5. M    tole and Conuft             dt-bn            *              -              -         -                       0 dt-O b
6. Lard                          45 afto        I sfte        S ofte         7 sfte          -       10 stes        68 site
7. Acom Road                      4 oftes       I site                       7  ft                  -               12 situ
8. Vehicles                     240 units                     6 units                               104 units      350 wi1ts
F. TRAINING FACILITIES                 1.;              -
6. TRANISSION MAINTENJNCE            I op                -              ..
SYSM
Y



-51 -                                    AUNlEX 22
Page 2 of 7
TELEPHCb   4CHARGE FACILITIES
PROVINCIAL TELEPHOCE EXPANSION
EiKdIaON                   Lines  h&tlio    erov1xw>        MnwIcfoetltv
1 HIGH GOVERNMENT PRIORITY AREAS
1.1     Industrfal Estates
CanLubaUn Sugar Est,-te-       2,000    R
Carmel Ind'l Park
Peoples Technology Comptex      1,500    N
Lufsita Industrial Park        2,000    N
First Cavite Indstrial         1,500    N
Estate
AyaLa Laguna Ind'l Park-       3,000    N
Unilab Irnistrial Park
Light Indistry & Science       1,000    N
Park
1.2     New SPC-D Rural Exchanges
Alttagtag a                    400       N        Batangas      Altitatag *
Sta. Teresita*
Laurel                         300       N        Batangas      Laurel *
Talisay                        300       N        Batangss      Talisay *
NutxusNo a                     450       N        Capf z        NIutusao *
Jamirdan *
Sapi-an *
Sifgu *
Panitan B                      350       N        Capiz         Panitan *
Pontevedra *
Senate S                      350      N        lloilo         Senate *
Anilao *
8arotac Viejo*
fDingle                        350       N        llolto        Ofileg*
Duenas *
San EnrfqL*'
Leon a                         450       N         tlotlo       Leon *
Atimodian *
San Miguel *
Tihwgan *
Sara S                         400       N        1lofto        Sara e
Ajuy *
Concepcion *
Son Dionisfo*
Lezo 9                         400       N        Aktan         Lezo *
Nakato'
asaw *
Nuangia*
Nwmncfa'
Nalinro *
Esealante                      SOO       N        Negres        Eswalante'
Occ.
La Casteltam S                 600       N        Negros        La CasteLeansa
Occ.          Noises Padillat



-52-                                  ANNEXL2
Page 3 o?
Exchansa          L1nes  IkSSLon    ~~Provnce     uNmficoal1t
Nanmpla                        400    N          Negro.        mnapla *
0ec.
inifgaran                      350    N          Negros        Hinigaran*
0cc.
Uayaman a                      1,000  N          Negro.        Bayexan 
Or.           Sta. Catalina *
Laom  9a                       350    N          N. S_r        Laong *
Palapag *
Oras                           350    N          E. 8mr        Oras *
Dolores *
San Policarpio*
1.3  Upgradifg wWor             Dasmrnars                      5,000    a         Cavite       ODm_rfnas
expaslon of existing
provincial xchanges
Indang 9                       1.000    a        Cavite        Irmdn
Alfonso *
Nafc a                         1,200    R        Cavite        Naic
Ternate *
Maraondon *
Silanr                         3,000    R        Cavite        S1la,
Tagaytay a                     2,000    R        Cavite        Tagaytay
Aodso *
MendZ-Niawz*
sta cruz a                     6.000    R        Law"u         Sta. Cruz
PagsanJan
Lunta
Paete RSU a                    1,500    a        Laagu         Paste
Pakil
Pargil
Klay *
Lips a                        6.500    R         8atangas      Lip.
Nataas no Kahoy
Tanauan RSU a                  4,500    a        Satangas      Tanoumn
Sto. Tomas
Nalvar
Tagoloan a                       700    R        Nif Occ.      Tagoloan
Villafueva
Oinaskayn a5 5,500    a                         AM* maadt
Bacoor
IsiA
Nolino RSU                     1,000    E        Cavit         Nolino, Bacw
Rsoarfo a                      2,000    a        Cavto         Rosl rfo
(Poblcifon)
Novelets
Cpo a                          2,000    a        Casvto        Gen Trias
Tanza
Rosa rio
Cawite t                        000    E         Cavite        Cavito City
Sn Pabto a                   3000    a         Lagun         San Pablo City
AlaminAs



-53-                                    ANNEX 2.
Page 4 of 7
EX m                           Line8  Acton       Proviqe       suilm
Liiw RSU J                     1,300  E          Laogn.        Liliw
Nagcarlan
Rizal
Nagdalena *
Majayjay *
Calaba                         2,500  E          Lagooa        Colombo
Caniubwng RSU                  1.500  E          LagwL.        Catbuyo
St.. Rosa RSU                    SOO  E          Lapars        Sta. Rosa
Los Banoe 0                    2,000  N          Laguna        Los Ssnos
say
Satangas                       3,000  E          Batangas      satenas Cf ty
sIC RSU                          S00  E          Sataga        Tabswnao,
SatanW  City
Sauan RSU 0                    2,000  E          Satangas      Bauan
San Pascual
Nabini *
Tom RSU (Part of Sinakaymn    5500  E           Cavite        Imu  (Poblacion)
oxpmmi on)
Zapote RSU (Part of            4,000 3           Cavi to       Zapote, Bacoor
Sinakcyan expansion)
Pita RSU a (cable extension      700  N          Lag"a         Pita
to New RSU)                                                   VWctoria
2. Telecomnunfeation Plan        Sultan tudsrat                   200  N          Naguindmn      Sultan Kudarat'
for Naguindanao & Sultan                                                          80
Kudarat Provinces (NewSPC-D
Exchanoss)
olnaig                           200  N          Naguindsn    Dinafg *
Parans                           300  N          Naguindmn     Parang *
so
Isulan                           300  N          Sultan        Isutan *
Kudarat
Tacurong                         600  N          Sultan        Tacturang *
Kudarat
3. Priority Areas in
Region III
satlang  a                     5.500  R          Bataan        Salanga
Pilar
Abuh
Orion a                        1.200  R          Bataan        Orion
Lisay
Bsaltfung                      4,S00  R          Bulacan       Satfuag
lustos
Son MNiuol S                   1S00  R          Sulacmn       Son Nlguel
San ltdefonso *



54 -A5NEX 2.2
Page 5 of 7
fxchanoem                      U        tn        Province    M!cfati p
amwoz RSU                        600  R          Numwa         Muioz
Ecija
Ba3tan                           600  R          Tartac        Bamban
Capas                            500  R          Tarlac        Capas
Concepcion                       900  R          Tartac        Concepcion
Camling a                        800  R          Tarlac        Canifling
San Cleo te *
Paniqui                        1,900  R          Tarlac        Paniqui
Gerona
MArcade
Rams *
Bepza                          2,200  E          Sataan        Mariveles
NaLoles a                      2,900  E          Bulacan       Natotos
Paaoong
Plaridet RSU                     700  E          Bulacan       Plaridel
Guiguinto RSU                  1,100  E          Bulacmn       Guiguinto
Bulacan RSU                      400  E          Bulacan       Cutlcan
Nogonoy RSU                    2,650  E          Bulacan       Magoofyf
San Fernando                   8,000  N          PaTpanua      San Fernando
Tarlac                         1,000  E          Tartac        Tartac
Victoria 8                       100  E          Tarlac        Victoria
Pura
Sto. Tomns RSU (part of San    1,500  N          Pampanga      Sto. TomBs
Fernando P. xpansi on)
Mexico RSU (pet of San         1,000  N          Penpange      Mexico *
Fernando P. expansion)
New SPC D               33,600  32                        53
ExpandJd by SPC-D       50,600  23                        32
Replaced by SPC-D       48U900  21                        43
Total               133.100             18            128
* Naw Area (59 of total 128 u.nicipatites)
a Exchange Serving more than (1) umicipatity (37 of total 76 exchanges).
N New SP
E Expansion of existing exdhae.
R Raptaceant of existing exchn.



"                                             _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55 _MANEX 2.2
Page 6 of 7
PUBLIC CALL OfFICES (PCO)
The followina  97unicirolitles are to be orovided with PCOs fn accordance with the Nunicinal Tetechone Act
Reclon I
1.  Itgo8 Norte Province    6
Bacerre                          Nueva Era                                Badoc
Pasuquin                         Pinili                                   Vintar
2.  Ilocos Sur Province  - 15
Altltm                           Baneyoyo                                 San Esteban
Cervantes                       CGlimuyod                                 Santiago
Lidlidda                         Nagbukel                                 Suoy
Salcedo                      San Juan
San lIdefonso                    Sugpon
Sigay                            Grgorio del Pilor
3.  Benmut Province  -  10
Atok                             Bakun                                    Bokod
Suguias                          Itogon                                   Kabayan
Kopengon                         Kibtugan                                 Sablan
T.btay
4. La Union Province - 10
Bacnotan                         Bagulin                                  BaLaoan
Bangar                           Burgos                                   Lune
Puco                             San Gab)riel                             Santol
Sudipen
S.  Pangasinan Province  * 17
AgWo                             Agut tar                                Ande
ent                              3otinao                                  surgo"
Damo1                            Infants                                  Labrador
Loac                             Nabint                                  Napmndan
MNtivided                        San Jacinto                              San Nicolas
Sison                            Urbiztondo                               San Nicoles
6.  Mum ESIfJ   - 15
Aleage                           Licab                                    Palayan City
Lour                             Napicuan                                 Eliot
Lupao                            Queton                                  Zaragose
San Antonio                      Talugtog
Cobtao                           Gen. Tinfo
Gn N. Mativided                  Lanera
7.  Tarlac Prvifne  - 5
Anao                             La Paz                                   Noyantoc
Pura                             Rom
Reaon IV
S.  Cavit Provfnee  -  7
Alfonso                          AMedeo                                   Gen. E. Aguinaldo
Gen. N. Alvarez                  Indwng                                   Negaltlanes
NondezLumeZ



- 56 -                                 ANNEX 2.2
. .                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 7 if 7
9.  Lgfuna Province      10
Calauan                          Cavfnti                                  Famiy
KaLayaan                         Nabitse                                  Magdalene
Majayjay                         Pile                                     Santa Maria
Victoria
10.  Rizal Provj nce  - 2
Jala-Jata                        Teresa



PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Estimte Proet Costs
(Peso Million)
. ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    - .19 ..             .         '94'" .99                                 ..           .    ..
Telephone Exchange.      0.0     0.0    0.0   11.3   372.1   383.5    3372    630.0   9672    167.1   315.3   482A    48.0    96.6  1446    563.7  1.414.0   1877.7
Transmission Equipmen    0.0     0.0   ,0.0  218.1   504.8   722.9      35.5   105.8   141.3    21.3    34.7    56.1   59.4    87.9  147.3    334.4   733.3  1.087.7
Outside Plst             0.0     0.0    0.0   35.2   163.6   108.8    448.7   370.1   819.8   194.3   157.5   351.8  203.3   140.3  343.6    882A      831. 1A13.8
Customer Preml_s        0.0     0.0    0.0   2U.      4.9      7.5     37.6    72.2   109.7    15.7    29.8    45.5    4.0     7.5    1.6     58.7    114.4    174.1
Operations and TraInn    0.0     0.0    0.0  102.0   243.6   345.6      0.0    27.2    27.2      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    102.0   270.8    3728
FacIJes                                                                                                                                                                tn
Powr Equtipmt Towe.   0.0        0.0    0.0   39.0    44.8    83.7      69.2    50.7   119.9    19.4    22.9    42.3   47.3    5s.9  103.1    174.8    174.3    3490
Vehlee&MMI.
CNNWos
Outide P"nt              0.0     0.0    0.0    1.5     OA       1.9    163.0    44.2   207.2    56.1    15.5    71.5   17.7     4.    22.8    238.3     64.9    38.2
idlne andd ste          22.3     0.    22.3   66.1     1.8    67.9    217.7    49.6   267.2    72.7    218    94.6  1470    32.1  178.1    525.9    105.2    M3A.1
conllanv0.0                      0.0    0.0    0.0    14.0    14.0       0.0    14.0    14.0     0.0    14.0    14.0    0.0    14.0   14.0      0.0     56.O     66.0
TOWalsCt               2ts3    0.0   22.3  47s.8   aSOo  182I    I.09.8  ts.  2.673    546.6   611.4  1.158.1  26.7   439.1  06.8  _sst12  3,78s2   ,.4
Physloal oCt',en        2.2     0.0    2.2   31S.    75.1   106.6    108.6    00.7   199.3    43.8    39.6    83.4k  46.      30.1   76e    232.6    236A    468.1
Puls Condngency         25      0.0    2.5   50.7    55.6   106.S    141.8    56.7   108.6    60.0    25.4    A4.4   57.3    18    75.6    311A       15.O    467.4
TdOal PY tCon o o 27.0 so       10.0   2.0  58   l.os4   0 349 .  .4 e      1511.1  3 071.4   64.42  s   4    .        5.5    I75       0    A       4jS8        *



- 58 -
ANNEA 2.4
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Sconda Lending Anrangem
1.        The financing arrangements for the proposed project envision
flowing the proceeds of the Bank loan to PLDT through two subsidiary
loans: (i) US$35 million will be onlent directly from DBP to PLDT for
twelve years, including four years of grace on repayment of principal; and
(ii) the remaining US$99 million would be onlent to PLDT through a group
of Banks for ten years, also with a four year grace period on repayment of
principal. Because these maturities are considerably shorter than the
term of the Bank loan (twenty years), PLDT shall amortize its loans ahead
of DBP's amortization of the IBRD loan. Consequently, DBP will need to
manage a float resulting in the excess of the principal repayments made by
PLDT over the amounts that were due to the IBRD. The Government wishes to
use this float for application to general macroeconomic purposes.
2.        The device DBP would use to maintain the identity of and manage
the float is a sinking fund. All of PLDT's principal repayments would be
placed in the sinking fund. The sinking fund would also be the channel
for DBP's repayments to IBRD, during the term of the subsidiary loans to
PLDT as well as after those subsidiary loans have been fully repaid.
3.        Secondary lending from the sinking fund would be designed as
though the Government were the Borrower of the IBRD loan; therefore, the
provisions would need to be tailored so as to hold DBP free of benefit or
cost. Thus, the mechanism envisions DBP investing amounts placed in the
sinking fund in special issues of government securities, preferably denom-
inated in US Dollars, including treasury notes, treasury bills and related
placements as determined by the needed terms and due dates. These securi-
ties would carry a variable interest rate provision, thereby enabling co-
ordination of the rate payable on these securities and the rate that DBP
shall pay to IBRD. The rate could also include a premium to offset what-
ever taxes or other charges that DBP may incur with regard to (i) the in-
terest income generated from said investments, and (ii) the handling of
the repayments to IBRD. The variable interest rate provision on these
securities would be structured so as to enable the Government to realize
the benefits or costs of variations in the IBRD rate as of the very date
when IBRD announces its change. DBP would be responsible for ensuring
that sufficient amounts of the government securities portfolio either ma-
t-are or can otherwise be liquidated so that the sinking fund has enough
cash to meet every scheduled interest and amortization payment to IBRD.
4.        PLDT's payments to DBP shall be denominated in US Dollars, while
DBP's interest and amortization payments to IBRD shall be determined in
relation to the Bank's basket of currencies. If, owing to a depreciation



- 59 -
ANEXK 2.4
Page 2 of 2
of the US dollar against the Bank's basket of currencies, PLDT's payments
to DBP are less than DBP's obligations to IBRD, the Government of the
Philippines shall remit to DBP the amount needed to bridge the difference.
Similarly, if the US dollar appreciates relative to the IBRD basket, the
Government would enjoy the benefits of that appreciation.
5.       The cycle of investments and payments described above shall con-
tinue until DBP has repaid the IBRD loan in full. Under this arrangement,
DBP would neither benefit from the mismatch in lending terms nor be ex-
posed to any possible interest rate or cross currency risks.



- 60 -
ANN 2. 5
Page 1 of 2
Tdephone System EKpasion Pro3ect
Philippine Log Distamn   Telephone Company
PLOT                                                                                   Type of      lit.
WB       Procuremnb t Packa Goods                                   Seric              Proce.        US$
No                                                                                      mat
1.1    Supply of new tWephone  Swhing equipment, Power,   Enering desgn, Superv.    ICB             35.5
exchanges              DistDibution Fames,          of ;W        sn,
ntaUllon Mateil e           Tchniol as      ,
Trining, Repir serice
1.2A   Expansion of existing  Swithing equpme  Power,   Bngin.o design, Superv.  Direc               5.7
Dig l Tlphon           Dtribution Fam,              of   n       i             Purae
Exchanges (WD)         Instllion Matedal et         Tochnical as_sc, Repair
servmce
1.2B   Expansion of exioig    As above                     As Above                   Dirct          8.3
Digitlu Telphon                                                                Purchase
Exchanges aupph
under X-SC.
1.2C   Epansion of CEPZ and   As Above                     As Above                   Dret           1.0
BPZA Exhages                                                                   Purchae
(Systm 12)
1.3A   Outside Pn             Pibr Optic cable, Cepper     Some taining and ebhil   ICB             30.1
cables, closures, terWas,   asistac
cabinet, connect, pole
accessories etc.
1.4     Trnmso
1.4A   Point to point adio/-   Digial Micwav systems       Tiing                      IC             6.8
mulp  eqpuimt.         (140, 34, 8 and 2 MW.)
Muk4*lx equipmnt
1.48   Point to Muldpoint rdio  Muliacces  o MUD   4mnt    Tring                      IW             0.8
syse                   inluin power, do.
1.4C   Anten Sysms             Anten, wavoguides, ed.      -                          ICB            1.0
1.4ID     officc Tranms        Line teina equipme, dig.  Tning                        ICa            2.2
ogo                    muzs and PCK:



ii IF,     g    
a..  jll         a.a.IiI
X g { {  U [  fFt  t    t  t    fW   W 10ff@- 1 Ne~~~~~~~~.
|~~~~~~                         1     *-"49         W 



- 62 -
ANNEX 2.6
PHUPPINES
Telee Systd Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
IBRD                                            Telecommunications
Fiscal     Semester         Disbursements 11        Sector Profile
Yew     No.     Ending     Semester Cumulative  Cumulative    %
1993      I    Dec. 31, 92      -        -            --      --
II  June 30, 93      8.0      8.0          8.0      6
1994      I    Dec. 31, 93     11.0     19.0         18.8    14
11   June 30, 94    11.0    30.0           29.5    22
1905      I    Dec. 31, 94     16.0    46.0          45.6    34
11   June 30, 95    16.0     62.0          61.6    46
1996      I    Dec. 31,95      21.0     83.0         83.1'   62
11   June 30, 96    11.0    94.0           93.8    70
1997      I    Dec. 31, 96     16.0    110.0        109.9    82
11   June 30, 97    10.0    120.0         119.3    89
1998      I    Dec. 31, 97      6.0    126.0        126.0    94
11   June 30, 98     6.0    132.0         131.3    98
1999      I    Dec. 31, 98      2.0    134.0        134.0   100
II
1/ Disbursement profile based on overall Bank profile for
telecommunIcation projects.



PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expansi   Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company (PLDT)
Schedule of Constuction
Telephone Exchanges- New                      ....... .   . >*                 -     
Telephone Exchanges - Expansion
Tranlssion Equipment                 <......... ...>  <-          >
Tenmdnal Equlpment                         .      .......  -        
Outside Plant           c.. .......                             111 _   P11 I_              >
Digl Data Equipment                      < .   .......        ><
Transmission Mahnt. System           <... .......... >-
Other Equipment                               ....   ....... . .............  .......  ......
CMIviWorks                          >.
Provincial Telephone Expansion
Industrial Estates.     r      _        '1 11     =    =  + 
High Government Priority Areas      <c m    m  Zinmi  =4 -+H 4+ 1   I+4                I   I  4+>
Sultan Kudarat and Maguindanao                                          =  _u = *+4+ 4 t>
Public CaO Ofices                <=  -_ ,             ,         '> +  F
Toll Interc  ion                                  C   =                . 4>
Manila Outside Plant                                       -i-=u'=   . -+    .ei *~i+   +*i i
Private Une Facilites                     :                               . A= +++ +  >
Transmission Maint. System                                      <_
..>   Bidding and evaluation                 <111    Delivery
^-^    Contract negotiations                <m>   Construction and testing
<->    Manufacture                           <..>   Ongoing construction and progressive commissioning                          U
-J



- 64 -
ANNEX 2.8
Page 1 of 5
PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company (PLDT)
Project Management Organization and Procedures
Review of Existing Arrangements
and Recon dations for Improvmet
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.        During the next five years, PLDT will be undertaking several large
projects for expansion of the local and long-distance telecommunications
networks in the areas currently served by PLDT.  These projects will include
the X-5C, X-6 and the World Bank-financed Telephone System Expansion Project.
Efficient management of these projects by PLDT staff will be essential to
ensure satisfactory and timely execution by the contractors of the large
number of different works comprising the projects, and bring these into
service as revenue earning assets. Currently, PLDT has a Project Management
Organization; but in terms of size, tools and equipment, it needs review.
PLDT recognizes the need for certain improvements to the technical expertise,
support services and systems used by its Project Management Organization to
enable it to manage efficiently and effectively the very large volume of
complex project work that will be undertaken in the future.
8opo of -rk
2.        To achieve the above objective, it is proposed to appoint a firm of
management consultants to strengthen the PLDT's present project management
organization and structure, improve its procedures and practices, etc. and
recommend changes. The Program Management Division within PLDT is responsible
for overseeing projects on its construction and expansion programs. The World
Bank project will be managed by this Division. It is PLDT's objective to have
consultant(s) provide the necessary inputs for more effective project
management. The consultants will be required to undertake the tasks listed
below. Items of work - from design to commissioning - involved in proper
management of a project that should be covered under each of these tasks are
listed in the Annex. The tasks and the items listed herein are only
indicative and consultants, in their proposals, should recommend additional
tasks that, in their view, would need to be undertaken to ensure establishment
of a satisfactory project management organization in PLDT.
Task A    1.  During the first six (6) months, the consultant shall review
practices within PLDT, with emphasis on its Project Management



- 65 -
AMiEX 2.8
Page 2 of 5
Division and relevant relationships between functional units
and contractors that impact on project management. The
consultant will review separately the disciplines of outside
plant, inside plant, transmission and overall project
management.
Task B    1.  During the following six (6) months, the consultant will
develop and supervise the execution of an improvement program
for better management of projects to ensure timely completion
with acceptable quality.
Task C    1.  There will be a follow-up phase to coincide with the duration
of the World Bank project, wherein the consultant will return
for a shorter assignment from the 2nd to 5th year. The purpose
of these follow-up assignments is to assess the effectiveness
of improvements implemented by PLDT, especially the work of the
Project Management Division in managing projects, and help
resolve any problems that may arise.
2.  Assist PLDT introduce changes to the project management
organization and procedures that may be required.
3.  Provide training, where required, to PLDT staff in the new
procedures.
3.        The consultants should be experience in project management with a
technical background and knowledge of and experience with telecommunication
entities. They should preferably be knowledgeable on the use of special
project management software.
XNANWha
4.        It is estimated that a total of 90 manmonths of consultant's
services will be required for the above tasks broken down as follows:
Y     A     R
18t  2d   3rd   4th 
1 - consultant for Outside Plant           12     2     1     1      2
1 - consultant for Inside Plant            12     2     1     1      2
1 - consultant for Transmission            12     2     1     1      2
1 - consultant Project Management          12    12     4     4      2
Total Manmonths -               50    18      7     7     8
Consultants may however make thetir own assessment of the actual quantum of
services needed. Consultants shall indicate their proposals the following for
each oZ the above tasks:



- 66 -
ANNEX 2.8
Page 3 of 5
(a)  total manmonths proposed to be employed;
(b) personnel proposed to be employed with their curriculum vitae and
the period for which each will be employed;
(c) detailed work program with bar chart indicating the proposed dates
of commencement and completion of each task; and
(d) assistance expected from PLDT.
Langguage
5.        English shall be the governing language for this assignment and
communications, presentations and reports shall be in English. Accordingly,
all consultants shall be expected to be fluent in English.
Consultant's Res2onsibilities
6.        The consultants shall be responsible for providing in full all the
services described in the Scope of Work and any additional services that may
be mutually agreed upon between PLDT and the consultants.
7.        The consultants shall appoint a Team Leader to assume overall
responsibility for all consultants personnel and their performance. The team
leader shall act as the liaison officer between PLDT and the consultants.
8.        The consultants shall inform PLDT in time any changes, conditions
or factors which could affect or jeopardize the schedule for the budget for
the assignment and specifically any changes in personnel that consultants may
be proposing during the course of the assignment.



- 67 -
ANNEX( 2 +8
Page 4 of 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Items to be Covered in the ScoRe of Work
An effective and efficient project management organization would
cover the following items of work, from initial design to final commissioning,
from preparation of budget to payment of contractor's bills. In undertaking
each of the Tasks A to K under the Scope of Work, the consultants shall give
attention to the current methods and procedures in PLDT for performance of
these items.
A.   Preparation of network and equipment designs, technical specifications
and schedule of requirements for:
1.   local and long-distance switching equipment;
2.   outside plant network;
3.   long-distance transmission equipment
4.   subscriber terminal equipment; and
5.   other complementary equipment items
B.   Arrangements for Procurement of Goods and Works including preparation of
tender documents (including commercial conditions, technical
specifications, etc.), organization of pre-bid conferences when
required, procedures for receipt and opening of bids, bid evaluation and
selection and contracting of the successful bidder.
C.   Arrangements for project management including the organization
structure, reporting arrangements, numbers of staff and their skill
levels.
D.   Procedures for planning and monitoring project construction including
use of PERT and other computerized management programs.
E.   Manpower planning procedures related to project implementation and
management.
F.   Checking contractor's supply, delivery and where appropriate,
installation and commissioning schedules, for different items to ensure
their coordinated and sequential implementation. The efficient storage
and transportation of equipment where applicable.
G.   Procedures for commissioning and acceptance testing and the inspect'-'n,
supervision and monitoring by PLDT staff on a continuous basis of all
works carried out by contractors to ensure that these are being executed
as per contract.
H.   Procedures for checking quantities of completed equipment, works and
services to ensure that these are in accordance with the contract.



68 -
ANS  2.8A
Page 5 of 5
T.   Procedures for checking and paying contractor's bills for ensuring that:
1.   the bills are for quantities of goods delivered and works and
service and services completed;
2.   unit costs of goods and services used in the bills are as specified
in the contract; and
3.  bills are paid promptly and efficiently.
J.   Schedules, formats and periodicity of preparation and submission reports
and executive summaries for PLDT management.
K.   Arrangements for coordinating construction and accounting information
including work-in-progress and updating PLDT's asset register.



PHIUPPINES
TELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Organizational Chart of PLDT
I -RE
CHIEF EXEC. OFFICER
EDP    P ElPftE$             IN
TOI                                                  SEC                 :VP
I   FIIP   I                 II  W
--~~~~~H OPEP 1_                                      10M P.EPfE 
OORPORAVTE                                            RINH
EE [1  " I1z 1 zA- a
Ip8OIP                           MVEY SeCTOR
FVP FII#W                       FVP
EVP a Emsaa* VIMs _edsn_
LEA       COPpAT i1                   BUSINESSP
SERVICES  AFFAIRS  ECTIONouv           MRET4Q swse            SVP aSoftr MMc PreddWd
W            VP             ~~~~~~~~VP        '$D'f V'P     FVP .RstVIa.PrdduW
Ill  WI   ID It Iii 0lIt         Iilii             illATON  IIIWNALPf     IIPIN8EH 'i  | ENi&I  |i
A8UGROOUP   GURP81ROUP                               SB3OPI18C.SBP    T  U4OP
EVP         FVEW                                     V              |     FPP             V
10.161 t90t
SVP74
EUWTWMIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QWS4
8Vff  SYSTBASTECHL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 70 -                         ANNEX 3.2
PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Staffing DistribU1in
(Total = 17,501 as of Dec. 31, 1991)
1.3,320 (76%')
Operations
988 (6%)
1,405 (8%')
Offices of CEO and COO
1,788 (10%)
Development and Expansion



- 71 -                                     3.3
PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expandon Poect
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
As of December 31, 1991
Metro
Total          Manila        Provincial
A. Personnel By
Emi,lovment Status
Regular                         16700          13028            3672
Probationary                      179            140              39
Temporary                         622             582             40
Total                        17501          13750            3751
B. Personnel By
Organizational Gros
Ofc of the Pres-CED               631            610              21
OSEVP-Ofc of the Chief
Operating Officer              774            774               0
Development & Expansion          1788           1783               5
Operations                      13320           9595            3725
Finance & Administration          988             988              0
Total                        17501          13750            3751
C. Personnel by Job
Classification
Executives (Mgrs & Up)            324            292              32
Confidential/Technical            130             125              5
Mgmt below Managerial
Level (Supvrs & Staff)        2712           2173             539
Non-Supervisory Employees       14335           11160           3175
Total                        17501          13750            3751
D. Personnel by Sex
males                           10633            8719           1914
Females                          6868           5031            1837
Total                        17501          13750            3751



Teleq*m  Sysem Expansion Projec
Philippines Long Distance Telephone Company
OPERAIONAL PERORMANC1 TARGBTS
~~ruiatr                                                              mrg.t
1. Installed Exchange Capacity   616,862   621,439   721,911   888,145   892,924 1,230,115 1,546,350 1,649,520 1,661,580
(Equipped Unes)
2. Working Unes             503,558   538,666   572,699   713,365   805,343 1,050,359 1,P79,671  1,442,558 1,505,442
3. Stations-In-Service (SIS)  986,072 1,046,461  1,097,287 1,188,408 1.290,408 1,392,408 1,494,408 1,596,408 1.698,408
4. StaPJl1000 Working Unes     31.9      30.9      29.4     28.0      26.5      25.0     23.5      22.0      21.0
5. Average FautsIlO00 SIS      13.8      13.5      13.0     12.0      11.2      10.4      9.7       9.0       8.8
6. % Faulty Serices Restored   87.7      91.0      91.5     94.0      94.3      94.5     94.8      95.0      95.2
Within 48 hours                                                                                                     N
7. Gross Revenues (Pesos Bi)    9.7      13.0      16.8     18.1      21.1      24.8     29.6      35.3       42
8. Current Rato                 1.7       1.3       1.4      1.4       1.1       1.4      1.1       1.3       1.1
9. Operating Ratio (%)         59%       56%       54%      59%       61%       61%      60%       57%      55%
10. Dabt Servce Coverage Ratio  1.8       2.6       2.5      1.9       1.5       1.3      1.4       1.3       1.5
11. Debt(Tota Equity Net of    55%       60%      52%       52%       54%      57%       57%       56%      51%
Reval. Surplus
12. Rate of Ratum on           10%        8%      11%        8%        8%       8%        8%        8%       R3
Revalued Assets (%)                                                                                   _
1. Stations-In-Service (SIS) includes:
(a) PLDT-Owned * Number of subscriber lines Induding business, PABX trunks and extensions,
paystations. mobile phones
(b) Subscriber-Owned - Subscriber PABX extensions
2. Woddng Unes * Excne lines In service
3. Number of Subscribrs  Total working lines to al seris Incuding single and party lines, payphones,
private lines, mobile, etc.
4. Year end: December 31.



ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 12
PHILIPPIES
Telephone System Expasion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Annual Financial Statements and Projections 198- 98
Table of Contents
Key Financial Indicators   ........... . .  2
Income Statements....                                                 3
Balance Sheets                      ...4
Cash Flow Statements..                                                5
Notes to and Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections  . . . .  8



Page 2 of 12
4|IgH .SES^|l
III            a|;g;        +Sfagg|l
IIIII       ;;.: ;a;        t50l$ f
t   ~I3       >       ;     *SI  I0  slito
E#    I      111    11 as:2g  t{fi:i {!      ; II



PHUJPPINE
TQELHONE  YSTM EXPANSION PROJECT
PHILIPPINE LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE COMPANY
1_6-1908 ANNUAL INOOME STATEMNT
FIGURES IN P MILLIONS
FINANCIAL YEiAR ENDED DECSEBER31                                    10        199       l1           1092      103        109a       1006      16         199?       100
OPERATING REVENUES
LOCAL SERVICE                                                     230       8.088     3*B1S        4,182     4.8,       SAM        .27        7.085     7.0        8.0,
TOLL SERVCE.                                                      S7        9,77      12.7M3      13.757    16,011     1872       22.097     27.882     23,739     40*70
MISCELL 8NEOUS                                                      172       180       218         227       233        266        282        310        341        375
LESS PROVISION FOr JOUTFULACCOUNTS                                 (216)     (216)     (216        (240)      (317)     (37        (414)      (2         (3t)       (73)
TOTAL                                                            0.450    12,830    18.600      17.005    20.700     24,306     20.116     34.720     41.416     49.415
OPERATING EXPENSES
MAINENAN8 TRAFFIC. COMERCIAL. ETC.                                4.366     6,851     7.001        8.2      90.76      11.064     12.613     13.0      15.618     17.745
DEPRECIATN                                                          972     1.222       602        1.77      2.482     8176       400        4.87       6.7        667
FRANCHISETAX                                                        289       374       6tS         339       833        743        87        1.0511    1.61       1.805
TOTAL                                                             .62      7.447     0.010      10s5      12.80      142        1706       t9080        .        26"W      U
NETOPERATWINGINCME                                                 SAm       6892      7.8          7.316     6.100      9.423     11.00      1462       1sm        2.404
AXWCS4AR       NTU                                                 1.048      1.111     1.101       1."       2,6        4.092      5684       79         8.125      .29
INOOMWOEIWETAX                                                     2.787     411    0.428           6910      6.164      68         5.726      7.406     10.434     11.102
PROISO  FOR TAX                                                      72       1.4       too         1          332        289        372       1.613      024       4.6
NET INCOME                                                         2.061      8.187    4.722        4.801     4.82       6.062       64        5.86       7.410     to"24
00
5ii



76 -                    ANNEX 4.1
Page 4 of 12
I I $ :!ka       f   , I     $   }Xlf I I
v   I  1    1~~~        U        t-aI
  }   R sszu    w           "4  25^ 11!R      l
|~~ l                                       . Sk   -  go
0~ ~ |      f       |o        !  w          -* aig       ;f
g~~~ Z  gl                                I Z   
l | gll0|2fl5 5 i} ~~~I|l:



TlEPHONEW 801W EMON PAW
PHUPPIELODWSANCETELEPHONEOOMPANM
t_' -ImANNUALCAH  FLOWSATWENT
FIJRESI PMIONS
DIT AL MENERATLIOFROM                                        2.742    $AU      2A"        4X4                5.731       AN6     7.=      10.AM   t
IllEa t 6MIOIF-fM
A. LOMW-TEl  LOAN
DOLURDENOUATED
PimAVME6TOFLOAMU                                          In        0        0           0             0~        0         0    a0                  0
AWAAAORTIOATI
- RES_UAL LOANS                                          704      46       Su          o       S         a561      410       444       470       46
- US$2M REUNDING PFLJt   O                                0         0      321        on       m        1.064     1.116     1.12  t .252         a
-CB-APEWMLOANS                                            22       17       20         is       20        Is        le        1S        22        le
-HAW40I OWST CABLE PROT FINANC                            0         0      818        842      176       428        420      m76        m        802
-VARIOUSCAMBEPRWN      FINANCI                            0         0        8         47       so        0o        as        6o        70        e s      *
-OTHERS                                                   so      17         0         17        9        13        14         a        11        119
-XSPfROGRAM DPJ_S                                          0        0        0        us       644        780       m         7         as        as
-  0 PROGRAm FNANNo (1o00 LOLU.FAUTRACK PRDWJET            0        0       sO        282      2          306       324      843       853        64 
-BASEP  JCTFIWANCG-EBWAlK-Uft 6.IN                         0        0        0          0       t5        33        34        30        as        20
RORL MANKPNIANO           -U8st84s00m
IRANCEI           -UsUs.oio                               0        0        0           0        0         0         0         0       615       on
TRANCHEU          -USSIOSOM                               0        0        0           0        0         0         0         0       16a       178
BINONOO&DAV^YOENHANGEFPIANCiN-UW#47.01                     0        0         0         20      120       148       18        1         175        l86
)2 COIANCOIN1ALANOE       -U88201SO                        0        0         0          0        0         0         0               1.076     1.140
XODPROAMPIFIAICM          -WU8.OUU                         0        0         0          0        0         0         0         0      1.067     2.302
SUSIOTALOFDOUARDENOMINATEDLOAS                           1.02      624    1.243       2.366    2.t87     8S.SI     3.300     4.070     6.5       7.4a0
US
O 0
* 
'a'.



PWr.wu PLDTsus1sCsR.8A1s-Pga
1Wo9     au       tn         tlow     lSw        1r      tno        tno       19i        M
Uo -
-LONGbMISOAJMMOSAP3 URIa                                                                         S                 a3        13        a4         6
-mmyumsu suupmw                                           0 s   0 z n 0                73      lI         2         0 
-P1A1BL*AUThAITDW  V-ALANCEPS1AM                          0la                                             3         0         6        15        16
-&OWIS- OOMUMLPAPR                                                                                                          SAN 0900  .0  0     Rim0
-AOMMI"taLWAI                                             o        0         0                                       0      -  0       1.    t.l43
-U3TOTOLOLOWSTOLOA                       t                 IAM        urn       &s       S.ou      4.4 o               tw o      Si
3.RWSPT10MOPPRHRWSMAREO                                      4        40      48          400       II         3         0         0         0         0
TOTAL                                               No    I           too0     3            0      4,074     7  3               
&B3EMMAIM             LAU12                                  1.430    s0o         e         L2      t408        3       t.1        743      k0       tO7
W.gmRmgm                                                      0 4      U        4           420      443      461        4S3       4?        475      483 
VOtMANCE76    2.2t8                                                             476       1.401    2.023   m 71        1.sa    m27t   2.213          2.7
n) PHOJT01 OTHER THA Xs
*.OR30AEPRQJEOO                                            307      164      a78          ST        I         O         0         0        0         0
- SUPPORT AND OTHE PRJEC                                   021    1,408    2.149       4,712    3S61          0         0        0         0          a
2a)s1pNP                                                    134       11t       so         se        0         0         0         a         0         o
3) RUER FflCABLE PAOJECTWMNTEATOtLPROJECT                   263       07       73         60        64         0         0         0         0         0
4) XS PORAM                                                t62      28       2.136       107    lift           a         0         0         0         O
6I)XCOMMUDENTARY PRORAMPOX-C)
- 100,00LU FASTTRAC1K PPJECTS                                0       62    2.111         V7         0         0         0         0        0          0
-BALANCEOFXS-C                                               0                38         03      8.40      7,082        0        0         0         0       v
a)POTSP6OPOSW TOBORWANW BY RW9AK                              0        0        0          27    2.100      37        1.452     16           0         0     A
7) XPROWGRAM                                                  0        0        0           O        0      t8t1    t3,8B3      8.18?     2,630        0     0 l
6) OTER CAf"MA OWEX OM S (PR1NCIALY RO  AO_ON 0                       0        0           0        0                   0                ?.00     10.000
TOTAL                               3.2T    6so0      7.668      8,700    t702      14.050    1ia33s    0.43      0.13     tO1
V,. CASH EOUIRAEMES FOR   AR                                 ( )   01          71           .       0.6      (3.2      13.       (,16       , 



FIlW*t19W-INCS OALOWSTAVEkW=-PpS3
FINANGIALVEARENDEDON      0=1                                  Wm6    11100       169       1"a        9         1904      166      1"a        low        19
4sussofoommsonournm                          ~~104     10        70         16n      173       173        73       1in        173       173
BSUBUCR1ERSOEFC0                                              go        U        1"         3y        41        41        41        41        41        41
wYrES STocEPU                                               so 5       0         a         13S      t          to         a         0         0         0
0) SHORT-TM CREWf LINE                                         0        *        m3        (ian                                                0         0
5)HAW4fF-41P0&WIKFNWMI                                       64        74        0           0        5         0         0          0         0         0
p)WA$EOpnWWMSHARES                                             0       469       0           0        0         0          0         0         0         0
s)uX PrmomA~ Fuwbou
-IFCUS87AMiLOAM      .                                               156        0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
-W40USSUAM LION                                              0       870      167          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
-ADS UfI4.U LOAN                                            178      m         61          4         0         0         9         0         0         0
-cCOOUPsOaMLoA                                               0       33        so         U9      IS           0         0         0         6         S
-1KFWU8W7M LOAN                                              0       694      414         33       1l?         0         0         0         0         S
-IFCUBMOOSiLOAN                                              0       66       235         112                  0         0         0         0 
-DeQ Utoo ALOA                                               0       124       34          6        85         0         0         0         0         0
*EASTE93 vIINPROJWDT INANGS6- U561.                           0         0       Is         u                    0         0         0                   a 
43-U- CABLE PRWWBTTRFANOS
S-U-P(WU1 -USPIUm                                            0         0      107          68       U                    0         0         0         0
mITsw  -US$451                                               0         0       0349                  0         0         0         0         0         0
SVUMa -o U AM                                                0         0        0o                  0          0         0         0         0         a
OITMAN    -US8.7M                                            0         0        713                  0         0         0         0         0      .0t
19350PROQRMFW=NANCING(10,9L.U. FASTPACK PR0JWT5
69,06 LU.
- mft   -1886 Um                                             0      10        36          23        0         0         0         0         0          0
-IVUSC     -US.14m                                           0        0       as          14        0         0         0         0         0          0
-SAKOFTS IT-U$ 1AMM                                          0       RI        0           0        0         0         0         0         0          0
1000LU.a 
-aPw   -ussSi.UI0                                                     0     1.404        u7s        000S0S
-Xo   -UsSMIm                                                0        0       ea         813        0         0         0         0
I)SASEPRQJW1 FINANOlN6kWANI9-UW Si                             0        0        0         189        0          0         0         S           
kosvIusOPw usm                                                                    0          0        0         0          0                   0
N)DESETUREISSUE-P1Wm70                                                  0        0    0           0        0          0    a              0              0
O)PIABLOAN AUINO9TY                                            0       70       540        on2             0          0         0         0              0
F) LOG-1    COWMME AL PAPER                                    0        0     2000        4,00        0         0          0                   0         0
cPoinWf FLDAI       NKPROJ  ff I A*~NCm..fWS4ISM               0        0         0          0-    1.519     1,03        64        715         0         0
IQPFO6WiNO         ANDAVAOSKAJGFIANS    -US$47.                0        0         0         t      1.012         0         0         0         0         0
5)pOpAo6wFNamCN ALANCE0X1'XI  -UD1M*                           0        0        0           0    20t1        362          0         0         0         0
*  PRPOWXSPROft4MAWOn              -USSNA                      0        0         0          0        0       1*5       7.104     3,6       1'2          0
I) PROPOSS ADO ND FNANIN                                       0        0        0           0    4,0          0       6500       4.0      50         7.O  O
@0
WTOL. 83.02    5,1                                                                      7.       13 O3 O               4        0         MS         .14 
FOWLU.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-UNNIh_                                                   1."@t"03  0S    130            IN       70         ON        70        51         O        7O
EN-N                                                      1.9f     TO.30      hO          70       O6        70        O1        OW        76         574



- 80 -
Page 8 of 12
NOTES TO AND ASSUMPTONS USED IN
THE FINANCIAL PROJECnONS
GENERAL
1. Infaton, Dovaluatlon
These inancial proJecUons were prepared usIno the following
ehang rates:
192 - January to February   actual
March to April    P26.00: US$1.00
MaytoDecember   P28.00:US$1.00
1993 - onwards     Assumed annual forex
escalation of 5.9%
The folowing Interest rates wer also assumed:
On edsixng loans - UBOR at 9%
- 91-day PhIl. T-8111 at 20%
On proposed loans
WB Project
Finaning- WB Rate of 7% plus 1-1/4% margin
Othem
ForeIgn - UBOR plus 1-1/8
Local - 91-day PhIL T-BIll plus 1-1/2 to 1-718% maroin
2 Captal Ex0enditure Program
Projects Other                        Complementary     Projecs
than XS         Fiber              ------------------- Proposed
-=_____- ___  Optic              100,000             to be
Service   Cablaf             LU.               Financed           Oer
Bridge   Improvement Int'l     XS    Fast Track  Balance  by World   XB    Capital
Program   ProJects  Projects  Program   Program   of tX-C   Bank   Program  Expenditures ToWt
- --  -  --  -  -- --  -- --  -- ------ - - - - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - - - -- - -- -- -- - - -.-- -
----- -------- --------  --------- Pesos In MlUlonse---  -------- -------- ----
1992     87.1  4      58.2     598.5   1,507.3    836.9    952.8      27.0                    0,779.6
1993      7.2  3,510.3          54.3   1,57.9             5,450.4  2,100.3                    12,7&4
194                                                       7,981.6  3,6.9  2,811.1             14,049.6
1996                                                               1,452.0  13,883.2          15,335.2
1996                                                               1,250.8  81868        0.0  9,437.6
1997                                                                        2,O  7,000.0   94,50
11,000.0  10,000.0
94.3  8     58.2     652      3,087.2    8389  14,384.8  8,087.0  27,411.0  17,000.0  79,04.3
__m    MMMin    mmnm    mm             mmmmm __w m nmin  ===am= S_                   _
Does not ti up with project cost submitted by DePlan of P7.68 which was computed at P28:US.1. This cost reflecs fuhr
"al depreciaton of the peso by .9% annually on oralgn ecchange rquiremnts of the project s1ta   1993



AN    4.1
-81-                                Pago 9 of 12
3. DraIngs against Loans and Issues of Proferred Stock
1992      13        1994      1995     19        1997     198    Total
----------------------------P esos In Millions --  ------
Existng Lane
X-5 Program Financing
ADO Loan - US$24.OM             3.9                                                                 3.9
CDC   - US$18OM                289       153.9                                                    1828
KFW   - US$567M               238.1      118.9                                                    365.0
IFC   - USM70.OM              112.4     598.4                                                     710.8
DEG   - USS10.OM               16.1      85.5                                                     101.6
Easern ViIMln Projoct Financing
US.12.5M Loan                259.3                                                               259.3
B-M-P Cable Project Financing
S-M-P (WE!) - US$9.8M         5&0                                                                 59.0
MITSUI  - US$4.2M             487                                                                 48.7
SVENSKA  - US$1.OM            28.1                                                                261
CMIBANK  - USS .7M            13.0                                                                19.0
X-SC Program Financing (100,000 LU.
Fast Track Projects)
29,000 LU.
- MITSUI - USS 5.5S7M        22.8                                                                22.8
- SVENSKA - US$ 2.614M       1&5                                                                 13.5
70,000 LU.
- KFW   - US$ 61.226M       261                                                                 2781
- KFW   - USS 22.945M       513.2                                                               513.2
Sm Project Financing
(dmbank) - US$5.2M Loan      137.5                                                               137.5
P1.556 Loan AuthorIty          931.5                                                               931.5
Lon-Term CommercW Paper    4,000.0                                                               4,000.0
St-term Credit Une            (239.1)                                                             (239.1)
Proposed Ioans
Wodd Bank Fnanping
US$134.0M Loan                        1,518.5   1,283.3    640.1    7985                       4,240.4
EUnondo and Davao Exchange
Financing - US$47.OM         360.5   1,012.3                                                   1,372.8
Balanc of X5-C Program Fnancinog
US$201.98M Loan                       2,5122    3,682o.                                        6,194.3
X Program Financino -
U5$4060OM Loan                                  1,452.3  7,103.8  3,967.1   1,324.7           13,847.8
Additional Fnancing                     4,500.0   7,000.0  5,500.0  4,X50O   5,000.0  7,000.0  33,500.0
Sttbcriber lnvestment Pan,
Subscribs Deposit and
Enployees Stock Plan           330.7     335.3      299.7    214.2    214.2    214.2    214.2  1,822.6
7,1462   10,833.1   13,717.4  13,458.0  9,479.8  6,569   7,216.2  68387.5
mmisioNmmm  _Ns_  _ _mm



- 82 -
X4. 1
Page 10 of 12
INCOME STATEMENT
Operating Revenues
Local Service. Local service revenues are billed in pesos, but are adjusted for foreign exchange
fluctuations using the formula allowed by I -e National Telecommunications Commission (NTC) under the
currency adjustment clause whereby for every 10 centavo change in the peso/dollar exchange rate, there is
a corresponding change of 1% in the local service rates (against the base of August 12,1983 rates).
In addition, NTC may upon application by PLDT review the rate structure and increase local service
rates if it believes the existing rates do not adequately compensate PLOT for capital costs. PLOT was
authorized to increase its local service and national toll rates by 35% effective August 12, 1983. A 10%
reduction on residential main station local service rates was also provisionally approved by NTC effective
November 1, 1986, and made permanent on November 1, 1986.
The tariff rates per telephone prevailing at the beginning of 1992 are used in the projection.
Toll Seryice. The tariff rates for national and international toll calls prevailing at the beginning of 1992
are used in the projection.
a. The Company projects national toll based on estimated number of average working stations,
demand forecast, local service facility profile and estimated average paid minutes per main station of
a given year. Using these parameters, the resulting growth rates in national traffic are as follows:
1992           15%
1993           21%
1994           19%
1995           18%
1996           17%
1997           16%
1998           16%
b. The Company intemational toll revenue based on estimated number of working circuits on a given
year; circuit forecast based on agreed figures from the Intelsat Global Traffic Meeting and estimated
average paid minutes per circuit of a given year. On the other hand, the expansion of the Company's
national network has resulted in increased international toll traffic. Using these parameters, the
resulting growth rate in international toll are as follows:
1992            3%
1993            8%
1994           12%
1995           15%
1996           15%
1997           15%
1998           15%
Mbcelbne       Principally revenue from directory advertisements.PLDT projects this minor component
of operating revenues to grow at 10% per year.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 11 of 12
Provision for Doubtful Accounts. Based on experience, assumed at about 1.5% of gross operating
revenues.
Operating Expenses
Rent. Rental expense for leased circuits is determined by the rates charged by Philcomsat for use of
its satellite circuits. Cost per circuit was assumed at US$2,300 per circuit per month for US Mainland,
Hawaii, Canada, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and North America and US$1,920 for Asia Pacific counirves
effective September 16, 1987. Other rental expenses are for rental of local circuits, electric poles an d
business offices.
Depreciation. Principally 5% per year for telephone plant, 20% for motor vehicles, and 10% for
computer equipment.
Taxes. Consist ot franchise tax (3% of gross operating revenues) and real estate tax (about .1 % of
gross property, plant and equipment) based on experience.
Insurance. Based on experience, about .3% of gross property, plant and equipment.
Other Ooeratinn Exoenses. These include all other operating expenses (administrative, traffic,
maintenance, etc.) and consist principally of payroll expense in accordance with the Collective Bargain. ig
Agreement in place up to 1991 and as projected and other expense items which were assumed to increase
using annual inflation rate of 10%. (Current inflation rate is 12%.)
Non-operating Income and Expenses
Interest Income. Principally income from short-term placements, assumed at 18% of the average
temporary cash investments.
Income Tax. Assumed at 35% of taxable net income.
Deductions from Net Income
Preferred Stock Cash Dividends. Based on outstanding preferred stock plus projected issue in
accordance with Subscriber Investment Plan. Cash dividend on nonconvertible preferred stock is based on the
outstanding nonconvertible preferred stock on a semiannual period ranging from 12% to 15% per year up to
March 1992 and 12% per year up to September 1994.
Prooertv. Plant and Eguigment. Based on December 31, 1991, balances plus charges principally
projected capital expenditure program (see raragraph 2), net of retirements.
Cash and Temporarv Cash Investments. Funds placed in temporary investments would earn 18% per
year.
BALANCE SHEET
Accounts Receivable. Based on experience, assumed at approximately three (3) months revenue.
The long period of collection is principally attributed from settlements of foreign administration which take
time.
Materials and Supolies. Based on experience, about 3% of gross property, plant and equipment.



- 84 -
ANNEX 4. 1
Page 12 of 12
Deposits on Letters of Credit. About .1 % of gross property, plant and equipment.
Prepaid Items. Principally prepaid insurance assumed at .5% of gross property, plant and equipment.
Other Assets. Consist of deferred charges and investments in shares of stocks. Deferred charges
represent principally costs of employees' material accountabilities assumed at about .1% of gross property,
plant and equipment.
Inyestments in Shares of Stocks. Based on December 31, 1991, book balances are as follows:
(Pesos in millions)
a. Pilipino Telephone Corp. (PILTEL)   65.4
b. Filphone Management Corp. - at cost  2.4
c. Manila Electric Company (WMBALCO)   5.6
73.4
Preferred Stock. Based on December 31, 1991, outstanding preferred stock, projected issue in
accordance with Subscriber Investment Plan, and projected conversions to common stock, and scheduled
redemptions on nonconvertible preferred stock.
Common Stock. Based on December 31, 1991, outstanding commonstock plus projected
conversions from preferred stock and 15% stock dividend payable on July 15, 1992.
Capital in Excess of Par Value. Based on outstanding balance as of December 31, 1991, plus the
difference between the par value and the assumed conversion price of preferred stock to com non stock.
Lynn-Term Debt. Based on existing long-term debt as of December 31, 1991, projected drawings and
scheduled amortizations.
Accounts Payable and Accrued Fx ernses. Consist principally of expenses accrued during the period,
mainly interest and taxes, plus other accou.,ts piyable projected at 35% of other operating expenses based on
experience.
Dividends Payable. Computed at P6.40 per year on outstanding common stock and 10% to 15% per
year on outstanding preferred stock up to 1992 and 10% to 12% per year up to 1994.
ISSUED: APRIL 8, 1992



- 85 -
ANNEX_5.1L
Page 1 of 4
PHILEPPINES
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Tarf
STRUCTURE AND ADJUSTMENT MECHANISMS
Tariff Regulatlon: Tariffs are regulated by the National Telecommunications
Commission (NTC). Adjustment to tariffs or the introduction of tariffs for
new services must be carried out through application to the NTC.
Tariffs are regulated to provide PLDT with adequate revenue to cover operating
expenses, taxes, depreciation and a fixed rate of return on assets. The
approved rate of return has been set at 121 since 1932. The value of assets
is established through an appraisal process, undertaken by an authorized
appraiser and revitwed by NTC. Cross subsidy between services is allowed
recognizing certain services may provide higher rates of return so long as the
overall return is kept to 12X.
Local Service: Rates for local service vaqry by location and type of service.
There are 15 location categories. There are 5 service categories to cover
residential, business and party line users. Nonrecurring charges are imposed
prior to service being provided. These include a service connection charge,
deposit, inspection fee and the Subscriber Investment Plan (SIP). The SIP
requireis the purchese of PLDT shares each time a service is subscribed for.
The required investment varies from P 900 for residential party line service
to P 5000 for a PABX trunk. The shares are nonvoting, preferred stock with a
101 cumulative dividend. They are convertible to PLDT common stock.
Recurring charges are imposed monthly. There are no usage charges for local
calls.
Monthly rates for local service have an automatic adjustment mechanism,
approved by NTC. It provides for an adjustment of 1X for each P.O.10 chzzige
in the foreign exchange rate of the Peso relative to the US dollar. Between
January 5 and October 21, 1990, there were 8 adjustments resulting in an
increase of 202.
Domstic Toll: Domestic song distance tariffs are scheduled in 59 bands,
based on distance. There are two categories -- operator assisted and direct
dial. Discounts are provided for two off peak periods (evenings and Sundays).
Domestic toll tariffs have not changed since April, 1985.



- 86 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 4
International Toll: Rates are established in US dollars but billed in Pesos
at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the call. As for domestic long
distance there are two categories and discounts for off-peak periods. In
keeping with worldwide trends, PLDT has recently applied for reductions in
international tariffs. International tariffs which had been unchanged since
April, 1985 were reduced February 1, 1990, by an average 20X.
Cellular Telephone: Cellular charges are split into nonrecurring and
recurring charges. Nonrecurring charges are structured the same as local
service. Recurring charges are structured the same as domestic long distance
exctpt there are only 5 distance bands.
Leased Lines: Leased line charges are assembled from a schedule of charges
which covers the local loop, intraexchange or interexchange circuits, and the
terminal equipment (if provided). The schedule provides bands of charges
(based on distance) and categories of services based on data rate.
Domestic Settlements: Settlements for national and international toll are
part of the interconnect agreements PLDT has with its other operators in the
Philippines. For national toll calls carried by PLDT, the originating company
is returned 301 of the toll, although this can rise to 441 depending on
proximity to Manila, volume of traffic and promptness of settlement.
For intern tional toll, the originating operator is returned either 9% of the
gross charges or 181 of net (after international settlement). The former is
the most common arrangement. There is no settlement on incoming calls as the
international correspondents do not provide call data which shows the
destination operator. Some operators in the Philippines haie approached AT&T
(the major international correspondent) to provide su^t.h data but thus far no
arrangements have been made.
Inteznational Settlements: PLDT has settlement agreements with all
international correspondents.  The main correspondent is the U.S.  As with
most developing countries there is a large imbalance in traffic resulting in a
favorable settlement to the Philippines. In 1989, the U.S. originated 130.3
million minutes of traffic while the Philippines originated 12.9 million
minutes. The Philippines received a settlement of $127.5 million while U.S.
carrier revenues for this traffic totalled $12.7 million.
AT&T and PLDT have restructured their settlement agreement to address the
imbalance. A base traffic flow was established using 1988 values. Traffic
imbalances above the base amount are settled at half the normal accounting
rate.
COMPARISON WITH OTHER COUNTRIES
The following table shows typical tariffs for the Philippines and three other
countries.  Most of the data is extracted from the Siemens study on national
tariffs as at January 1, 1988. This was the most recent available. IN U.S.$
terms, Philippines charges for installation and domestic toll will have



- 87 -
ANNEX S.1
Page 3 of 4
declined significantly (approximately 40X) due to devaluation of the Peso.
Local service charges have increased (also about 40X) due to the automatic
escalation which is keyed to exchange rates. International toll charges are
current.
Ph1    ~Canada       Japan       Indonesi&
Installation Fee               108.00       30.00        639.60      302.40
(Incl. Investment)
Local Service                  105.00)     169.80        147.00       25.20
(Annual Charges)
Domestic Toll                    0.28        1.01          1.11        1.36
(3 min/100 KM)
Annual Summation               156.60      342.00        460.80      312.00
(Local plus toll)
International                    7.20        5.39
(3 min/IDD)
Notes:
1.    All values in US$.  Figures (except international) have been extracted
from the Siemens survey of national tariffs, 1988.
2.    Local service charges for Canada and Philippines include unlimited
calling. For Japan and Indonesia, local metering is ayplied in addition
to rental charges. The charges for 700 direct dialed calls with no off-
peak discount have been applied.
3.    Annual summation includes installation fee (distributed over 10 years),
700 local calls, fixed monthly charges and 200 national toll calls of 3
minutes up to 100 KM.
4.    International calls are between Vancouver and Manila (country designates
origination of call). Rates are for November, 1990.



- 88 -
Ae   S.t
Page 4 of 4
PF IPPJES
Representative Rates for PLDT Telephone Services
LOCAL JEVtCI RATES
SINGLO PARTY SAVICE
4-i.-mofneocuftne (p).-*-.* R.cu.r.r
SIP    serv  other  Totat    (p/month)
Nil WENTIAL: 
Nanl ts            lc00     1O    30J   2288            236.9
Low Rote           1300     180    320   1800             6.2
ll*1an             1300     180    320   1800           200.0
ItUEtSS:
Mantle             3500     215    408   4123           340.2
Low Rats           2000    a11      420   2635          182.3
MedIan             3000     215    420   2635           265.6
Mantla             5000     215       5   5223          693.7
Low Rats           3000     215      20   3233          297.9
MledIn             3000     215      20   3235          634.4
CELLULAR:           30       300   7000  10800          214.0
ANI.G LEAMsE
20 im              5o000    430       0   5430         1303.1
500 Km             Soo0      40       0   5430        23719.1
OCtL LEASED:
2a KM             s5oo      430   6571  12001          8".9
500 Km             5co0     430   6571   12001        13639.1
ot.es i other fnetudo  fnspection and desit.
2. Lea"d c efrCmt auei    3 Kr toca  loqp
NW interexchenOE of ecult for distance
ahown. Dats *4U3e 9600 fPs. Inctudz
twmifnat equIpmnt.
3. Celtutar  sswas vehicle mobUt.
TOLL SRVICE RATES
STNMStM S MtN CALL
*.leekcday.*-    *..Swday...   --Ive4nin-
rpr      000   oper    cO0   opt?    Do0
. . ...  a........... ... ._  . .. 
NAtt'lAL (p)
20 Km            4.?     3.2    44.7     2.2    *.7    2.2
SOO 1m          29.0    28.1   20.5   19.9   20.5   19.9
1500 KIm        $0.8    49.3   35.0   34.0   35.0   34.0
ZNTtRNATIONAL CS)
Asia            6.86    r.72 n   .84    7.73    8.44   6.88
AlWries        maJ   io.4$    a."   * r.n    s.44   ?.n
suWv           11.94   IO."   11.64  10.48   9.84   8,60
Up to 100 Km    20.0    16.5   20.0   16.3   20.0   t6.
251 to 600 lbm  45.0    32.0   43.0   32.0  4U.0   33.0
Over 1000 K     75.0    52.0    n.0   52.0  7n.0   52.0
Weekdays Mon to Set 7t00 to 19:00 (matonal). 6s00
to 2tOO (intrnoatIonal).
Evening: son to Su, 19:00 to 7:00  (nattonl), 24*00
to 6:00 Cinternatfonal).
Surnys Sum, 7:00 to 19:00 (nstIonal), 6tOO
to 24:00 (internationa).



- 89 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 3
PHELIPPINES
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Return on Investment
Incremental benefits of the proposed project are provided by an
estimated 108,000 new working lines, 97 PCO's, and revenues from leased lines
being provided under the proposed project. The net benefits were calculated
as incremental to a base consisting of the existing network plus other parts
of PLDT's expansion program the X-5, X-5C, X-6 (and "other works" projects)
over the period 1992 to 1997. The benefit period of the project extends from
1992 to 2007 when, on average, all the equipment provided under the project
would have completed its useful life. Benefits attributed to new teleph-Nne
subscribers are estimated, on the date of connection, to be 85Z of the per
working line revenues of existing customers because of expected initial lower
utilization. Gradual increases in these revenues are forecast over the study
period to bring them in to line with average company rates; it is expected
that the higher utilization of provincial services will compensate for
slightly lower rental tariffs. In addition, progressively higher usage rates
are forecast, climbing to 15X more than current, as a result of increase in
the size of the network, trends toward higher usage of telephenes, and a
higher ratio of single line to party line services. Tariffs are forecast to
remain constant over the study period and this results in a rather modest
increase in the average annual revenue per main station from US$559 in 1992 to
TuS$662 in 2007. This is a conservative estimate because a large proportion of
telephones provided until now, and expected to be provided under the programs
included in the study, will be for high calling rate subscribers (businesses
and shared telephones). The above factors were applied to PLDT's revenue
projections both with and without the proposed project in order to determine
tbv4 incremental effect. Operating costs attributed to the project were valued
at average operating cost per subscriber, less an allowance for operating cost
savings realized on existing lines due to scale economies and modernization of
the network.
In calculating the project's rate of return, the costs and benefits
associated with the investment program are assumed to remain constant in real
terms. All incremental costs and revenues have been deflated to bring them to
their comparable 1990 price levels. No residual value of assets has been
taken into account as the present value of these in real terms would be
minimal. The estimated resultant internal financial rate of return is 15X
which is satisfactory.



- 90 -
AhNMEX 5. 2
Page 2 of 3
Economic Rate of Return
The economic internal rate of return (ERR) is calculated at 21X, It is
greater than the financial rate of return due to the elimination of taxes and
duties, and an adjustment to the unskilled labor rates using a conversion
factor of 0.8. The resultant ERR understates the benefits to be derived from
the project as it does not take into account consumer surplus and the benefits
that would accrue to the economy as a whole as a result of improved
telecommunications services. Because these factors are difficult to quantify
they are not included.
The results of a sensitivity analysis made of the project's internal
rate of return are as follows:
Sensitivity Axialysis Conditions                  ERR (X)
(a) Base values                                         20.7
(b) 18 month delay in connection of working lines    13.6
(c) 10  increase in operating costs                    19.9
(d) 10  reduction in operating revenues                14.7
(e) 5% increase in investment costs                     19.4
(f) Combination of (b), (c), (d) and (e)                11.2
A summary of the project's economic rate of return calculations
follows.



PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Sumrnmary - Economic Rate of Return Calculadons
(Peso Thousand)
ITEM.           1992  1993  1994  1995  1996.  1997  1 9  .199S  2000  21  202  2003  2004  2005  2006  200
Cost Benefits of PLOT's Complete Exnanslon Program (Note 1.)
Total Net Benefits       18589 21354 22926 24464 26037 27788 29456 30792 31230 31594 31885 32103 32224 32248 32273 32299
Net Op Costs              6822  7370  8886  9325  99O6  10516 11171 11688 11791 11895  12002 12111 12222 12336 12451 12569
Net Inv (ongoing)         1624  1624       0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
Net Inv (S&X6)            1386      0  2467  7795  8939  4853         0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
Net Inv (X5C)             1445  4401  6445        0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
Net Inv (WB)                22  1685  2614  1165  1004          0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
Total Net Costs          11299 15081 20192 18286 19899 15369 11171 11688 11791 11896 12002 12111 12222  12336 12451 12569
Benefits Less Costs       7269  6273  2735  6178  6t38 12420 18284 19104 19439 196   19883 19992 20001  19912 19821 19730
Cost Benefits of PLDrs Expansion Proaram without World Bank Proiect (Note 1.1
Total Net Benefits       18569 21202 22203 23292 24689 26371 28045 29273 29641 29974 30261 30476 30594 30618 30642 30688
Net Op Costs              6822  7368  8448  9023  9751  10482 11062 11572 11672 11775 11879 11986 12094 12205 12319 12434
Net Inv (ongoing)         1624  1624       0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0
Net Inv (X5&X6)           1386      0  2467  7795  8939  4853         0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0
Net Inv (X5C)             1445 4401   6445        0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
Net Inv (WB)                 0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0     0
Total Net Costs          11278 13394 17360 16818 18890 15335 11062 11572 11672 11775 11879 11986 12094 12205  12318 12434
Benefts Less Costs        7291  7808  4842  6474  5999 11037 16983 17701  17969 18199 18382 18490 18s   18413 18324 18235
Incremental CosVBenefits of PLDT's World Bank Proiect
to
Complete Expansion        7269  6273  2735  6178  6138 12420 18284 19104 19439 19699 19883 19992 20001  19912 19821 19730  IV
Without WB Project        7291  7808  4842  6474  5999 11037 16383 17701 17969 18199 18382 18490 18500 18413 18324 18235   *
Difference                 -22 -1538 -2108  -295   139  1383  1301  1403  1470  1499  1501  1502  1501  1499  1497  1495   *
EIRR (1992-207):          20.7%                                                                                                        0
C'h ', '8;.fits ,ro                                                     .



- 92 -
ANNEX 5.3
PHILIPPINES
Telephone System Expansion Project
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.1 The Philippines: National Telecommunicat.ons Development Plan 1991 to
2010; Department of Transportation and Communication; October 1990.
A.2 The Philippines: National Telecommunications Commission (NTC) Memo
Circular 7-13-90 establishing rules and regulations for interconnection
of exchanges; July 1990.
A.3  The Philippines:  NTC Order establishing revenue sharing arrangements --
Case No. 88-145, April 1990.
B.1 PLDT -- Franchise, Charter, By-laws, and Articles of Incorporation; as
amended through 1983.
B.2 PLDT -- Annual Reports; 1986-89.
B.3 PLDT -- X-5 Program; September 1987.
B.4 PLDT -- X-5 Complementary Progiam (X-5C) March 1988.
B.5 PLDT -- Computerized Financial Projections; 1990-97 -- Lotus 123 file
FIN1.WK1.
B.6 PLDT -- Greater Metro Manila Market Survey (Summary); 1990.
B.7 PLDT -- Summary of Human Resource Development Program; July 1990.
B.8 PLDT -- Telephone Expansion Project support data.
B.9 PLDT -- Economic Analysis and Tariff Review of PLDT's Expansion Program,
Teleconsult, Ltd. (Canada); March 1991.



TA N    A  I  A I                             UV                                                          o                  PHILIPPINES                     1
LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE COMPANY
TIELEPHONE SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJEC
0                                                      Roono~A1                0       NW  I  0CAGe  --    -
o   ~~~  Ron..  NaIl VA t I A ~~~~~~~~~~~NEW SPCO RURA SCHANGIES (Lloo---odArno)
O  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~RATANES
A        Do                                         /                                                                     AS.NO SMSCAG
a  0                                           '                                                                    INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
Ps DIGITAL. LEASED CIRCUIT NODES
,AtAa'Aa a'.                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW  PLISUC CALL OFFICES (Nn. pe  P-vis)
I'AMTANC A                            (                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOLL INmECOmNNETINTO NON - PLOT
0:-                                                                   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEHANGES
.7  CAI~~~~~   Logo poNLrCnoA
MoTh1----PROVINCE BOUINDARIES
0               .- - 14                                                                 -REGION ROUNOAPEOS
a,                                    URgOyRIv ~~~~~~~                LUZON
Moa  C                                ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~ a-                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAPIES
C-. ya   . 2            a.o        *,V                                lpCN
0                      0                                                  IaLOMETERS, ~~-Son0     100         200         300
'tAVITE0 .                         C 0                           aI 
0   .2                                  9oI;rr.AcUNA                               NILES 0          0        100      150       200
LUZON                               Cuaoc.~Nr4                                                    C n
IIAT~~~~!!!AS   EZ           ~           ~            .222  Dot 
O.ao.,~~~~~~~~~~CAADLAE
0:~~~~~~~~~~2
t              (V      ~~~~~~29                               36'
MINDOSO                                                     009a
OASSJNCATION OF PROVINCES                                                    30~~~~~~~~~R-,l.  37           48
Ck*lILCOS  GREAI*SCL%REIOS                                                                                                 JAob0                         VI
I ILOODS         vsWESTERN VISAYAS                                                                                                         4
1 baR Non               SR AMd.                . .. . .-'-                                                                                         oo
e lon S,              ~-'-                        '-'M,nusu                                                                    1              POPngR
Ab             'Aot1  CENTRAL VISAYAS
AKI1o1ngRApoyoe        44CeRS.n
tdoniol  No.n"*                                                                                L.
o Ilogon         Se UnIonS                 PALAWAI,Ioroo I                                                            sa
it CAGAYAN VALLEY    VII  EASTERN VISAYAS
IC - hoelS                       oonSo-,oN
I. (Soln   *               SE SuIIInSall
IIl CENTRAL LLUZON                SIR                        C.INA                                                                                62
15 NnooEdIo   IX  WESTERN MINDANAO)050
14T-Ilo                 S. Z-bnxnog,d ANon           -
,n SantoIeee      ES  Znael  NS,J OSOaS~                                                                                                        65
NATIONAL CAPITAL    X(  NORTNE RNMINIXSNM)
REGION RNCPIQ
"SOUTI-IERN TAGALOG          40 CoW.ui                  VW
Lt At.r                 A,     -"S~l
HkSongRo         Xi SOUTHERN MINDANAO                      IND0N9$ 
anMAdos O-Iena          AnDoo Orieniol-1
Mo Ree   On d           an Do-od. Nte
a'IIes..n  S.ooh CfIhtbo
V  BCCA                lIt CENTRAL MNUNANAO                                 s                     Thio map  boabe   .prdb   h    oldBaaaa   nuiey
F   nC.-one Nod              71 L-no d.i Nen                                   ,a. Bw              tile novnelo   ftnd,n              for If.int)oefThWod
o   SC-iTOIn S., ~           noLoo d.i Sun                                                         Fook Gru-Tedrodnin   od d th.  . lnadorbon has   orhi.
a        contongoon            7vopNd hat s.p-   ni the par_ ofTh W-ld Bnnk Grop.no  jdgen
Alb~~~~~~  ma.i"d.-                                                  1-1~~~~~~~~~~~~nts lea  l-eo  n  ertr  rny esdonont or nnaptonoa  f
an vboyr  toganslnoSau- bKndoieu



