Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4638-KH 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Smallholder Agriculture and Social Protection Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 4, 2009 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 4, 2009, entered into between KINGDOM OF 
CAMBODIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I(A) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,300,000) 
(variously
,
“Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following: the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period 
of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to 
the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Street 92, Sang Kat Wat Phnom 
 Phnom 
Penh 
 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
855-23-427798 
855-23-430241 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
Page  5
4
AGREED at Phnom, Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
By: /s/ Keat Chhon 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Annette Dixon 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
Acceleration of Smallholder Rice Supply Response 
 
1. 
(a) 
Pursuant to Circular No. 02 SR, dated May 27, 2009, the Recipient has 
established a price oversight mechanism for monitoring fertilizer prices 
that includes random sampling of price throughout the supply chain, as 
well as improved farmer information; and 
 
(b) 
Pursuant to Directive No. 2462, dated May 19, 2009, the Recipient has 
expanded the monitoring of fertilizer quality, including random sampling 
for quality tests throughout the supply chain, as well as improved farmer 
information and labeling in Khmer. 
 
2. 
Pursuant to Directive No. 2462, dated May 19, 2009, the Recipient is 
accelerating the registration of farmer organizations based on an additional 
budget allocated for this purpose. 
 
3. 
The Recipient, on April 9, 2008, lifted its ban on rice exports through Inter-
Ministerial Prakas No. 105. MOC/SM2008 on Authorization of Exports of all 
Kinds of Dry Season Rice Grown and Harvested in Geographical Areas of Prey 
Veng, Kandal and Takeo Provinces. 
 
Expansion of Safety Net Support and Improvement of Governance with Better 
Targeting 
 
4. 
The Recipient signed on April 24, 2008 a Memorandum of Understanding with 
the World Food Programme for the provision during three (3) years of two 
thousand (2000) metric tons per year of rice for, 
inter alia
,
school feeding and 
food for work programs. 
 
5. 
The Recipient executed  on October 9, 2008, a financing agreement with the 
Asian Development Bank and initiated the implementation of emergency safety 
net assistance in two hundred (200) communes through a onetime rice 
distribution (from October 29 to November 5, 2008) and a two (2) year food and 
cash for work program for 2009 and 2010. 
 
6. 
Pursuant to Prakas No. 474 MEF/PRK of May 21, 2009, the Recipient expanded 
the roles and responsibilities of the National Food Security Task Force to ensure 
Page  7
6
and monitor the application of the Identification of Poor Households Targeting 
System in the distribution of food and agriculture materials to poor households 
and of cash and food for work program under the purview of said Task Force. 
 
Strengthening the Oversight of and Learning from Crisis Response Actions 
 
7. 
Pursuant to Prakas No. 474 MEF/PRK of May 21, 2009, the Recipient 
established a monitoring and public reporting mechanism on the implementation 
of activities under the overview of the National Food Security Task Force:         
(a) said monitoring mechanism and  the resulting quarterly reports to cover, inter 
alia, distribution of fertilizer and seed to smallholders, registration of farmer 
organizations, measures to improve rice exports, safety nets for food vulnerable 
households, and application of the Identification of Poor Households Targeting 
System; and (b) said quarterly reports to be publically disseminated, including 
through the Ministry of Economy and Finance website and through technical 
working groups for agriculture, water, food security and nutrition. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
.
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
3,300,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,300,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
.
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
(b)  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s National Treasury, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
Page  8
7
2. 
For purposes of paragraph 1(a) of this Section C, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Financing Account, the 
Recipient shall open and, thereafter maintain, a deposit account in United States 
Dollars at the National Bank of Cambodia, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
and acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall confirm to the Association:  
 
(a)  
the name and number of the designated deposit account mentioned in 
paragraphs 1(a) and 2 above; 
 
(b)  
the foreign currency amount received in the designated deposit account 
referred to above; 
 
(c)  
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said designated 
deposit account at the National Bank of Cambodia, and the equivalent 
amounts credited to the National Treasury Single Account to finance 
budgeted expenditures; and  
 
(d) 
the date and name, and/or number of the National Treasury account to 
finance budgeted expenditures to which the amounts equivalent to the 
amounts withdrawn from the Financing Account have been credited. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
 
E. Audit
.
1. 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
Page  9
8
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is May 31, 2010. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing November 15, 2019 to and including 
May 15, 2029 
1% 
commencing November 15, 2029 to and including 
May 15, 2049 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  11
10 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“ADB” means the Asian Development Bank established in 1966 with its 
headquarters in Manila and any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and w
atch 
Page  12
11 
 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Identification of Poor Households Targeting System” means the Government 
targeting program, implemented by the Ministry of Planning, which uses a set of 
standardized national procedures to identify poor households throughout 
Cambodia. 
 
5. 
“Khmer” means the official language of the Kingdom of Cambodia. 
 
6. 
“Minister of Economy and Finance” means the Recipient’s Minister of Economy 
and Finance and any successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“National Task Force” means the task force established pursuant to Prakas No. 
617 SHV.PRK on Establishment of National Food Security Task Force for 
Implementation of an Emergency Food Assistance Project on August 18, 2008, 
whose responsibilities include, inter alia, the provision of: (a) guidelines and data 
Page  13
12 
 
to development partners; (b) advice on policy during project implementation; and 
(c) monitoring of the project implementation.  
 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 22, 2009 from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
9. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of   
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
 “WFP” means the World Food Program. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
Page  14
13 
 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
Page  15
14 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
