Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
FPCR Core MDTF GRANT NUMBER TF094876 
 
Food Price Crisis Response Core 
Multi-donor Trust Fund  
Grant Agreement 
 
(Smallholder Agriculture and Social Protection Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Core Multi-donor Trust Fund 
 
Dated August 4, 2009 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FPCR Core MDTF GRANT NUMBER TF094876                           
 
FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSE CORE 
MULTI-DONOR  
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 4, 2009, entered into between KINGDOM OF 
CAMBODIA
 (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World 
Bank”), acting as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Core Multi-donor Trust Fund for the 
purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement). The World Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are 
described in Section I of Schedule  to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Recipient and the World Bank therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, 
dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions and this Agreement.  
 
Article II 
The Program 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the  
World Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the World Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
2
Article III 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to eight million United States 
Dollars ($8,000,000) (
“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with Section II of 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
Article IV 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
4.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard Conditions is 
the Minister of Finance. 
4.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Street 92, Sang Kat Wat Phnom 
 Phnom 
Penh 
 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
855-23-427798 
 855-23-430241 
 
4.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  5
3
AGREED at Phnom Penh, Cambodia, Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
By: /s/ Keat Chhon 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
acting as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Core Multi-donor 
Trust Fund 
 
By: /s/ Annette Dixon 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE  
Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
Acceleration of Smallholder Rice Supply Response 
1. 
(a)  Pursuant to Circular No. 02 SR, dated May 27, 2009, the Recipient has established a 
price oversight mechanism for monitoring fertilizer prices that includes random 
sampling of price throughout the supply chain, as well as improved farmer 
information; and 
 
(b) Pursuant to Directive No. 2462, dated May 19, 2009, the Recipient has expanded the 
monitoring of fertilizer quality, including random sampling for quality tests 
throughout the supply chain, as well as improved farmer information and labeling in 
Khmer. 
 
2. 
Pursuant to Directive No. 2462, dated May 19, 2009, the Recipient is accelerating the 
registration of farmer organizations based on an additional budget allocated for this 
purpose. 
 
3. 
The Recipient, on April 9, 2008, lifted its ban on rice exports through Inter-Ministerial 
Prakas No. 105. MOC/SM2008 on Authorization of Exports of all Kinds of Dry Season 
Rice Grown and Harvested in Geographical Areas of Prey Veng, Kandal and Takeo 
Provinces. 
 
Expansion of Safety Net Support and Improvement of Governance with Better Targeting 
 
4. 
The Recipient signed on April 24, 2008 a Memorandum of Understanding with the World 
Food Programme for the provision during three (3) years of two thousand (2000) metric 
tons per year of rice for, 
inter alia
,
school feeding and food for work programs. 
 
5. 
The Recipient executed  on October 9, 2008, a financing agreement with the Asian 
Development Bank and initiated the implementation of emergency safety net assistance 
in two hundred (200) communes through a one-time rice distribution (from October 29 to 
November 5, 2008) and a two (2) year food and cash for work program for 2009 and 
2010. 
 
6. 
Pursuant to Prakas No. 474 MEF/PRK of May 21, 2009, the Recipient expanded the roles 
and responsibilities of the National Food Security Task Force to ensure and monitor the 
application of the Identification of Poor Households Targeting System in the distribution 
of food and agriculture materials to poor households and of cash and food for work 
program under the purview of said Task Force. 
Page  7
5
Strengthening the Oversight of and Learning from Crisis Response Actions 
 
7. 
Pursuant to Prakas No. 474 MEF/PRK of May 21, 2009, the Recipient established a 
monitoring and public reporting mechanism on the implementation of activities under the 
overview of the National Food Security Task Force: (a) said monitoring mechanism and  
the resulting quarterly reports to cover, inter alia, distribution of fertilizer and seed to 
smallholders, registration of farmer organizations, measures to improve rice exports, 
safety nets for food vulnerable households, and application of the Identification of Poor 
Households Targeting System; and (b) said quarterly reports to be publically 
disseminated, including through the Ministry of Economy and Finance website and 
through technical working groups for agriculture, water, food security and nutrition.
 
Section II. 
Availability of Grant Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Grant Amounts
.
The Grant shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Grant to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Grant Allocated 
(expressed in US$)
 
Single Tranche 
$8,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$8,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Grant Amounts
.
1. 
Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree:   
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the World Bank 
into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the World Bank; 
and 
(b)  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s National 
Treasury, in a manner acceptable to the World Bank. 
2. 
For purposes of paragraph 1(a) of this Section C, prior to furnishing to the World Bank 
the first request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall open and, 
thereafter maintain, a deposit account in United States Dollars at the National Bank of 
Cambodia, on terms and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall confirm to the World Bank:  
 
(a)  
the name and number of the designated deposit account mentioned in paragraphs 
1(a) and 2 above; 
 
(b)  
the foreign currency amount received in the designated deposit account referred 
to above; 
Page  8
6
(c)  
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said designated deposit 
account at the National Bank of Cambodia, and the equivalent amounts credited 
to the National Treasury Single Account to finance budgeted expenditures; and  
 
(d) 
the date and name, and/or number of the National Treasury account to finance 
budgeted expenditures to which the amounts equivalent to the amounts 
withdrawn from the Grant Account have been credited. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the World Bank determines at any time 
that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the World Bank, refund an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment to the World Bank.  Amounts refunded to the World Bank 
upon such request shall be cancelled. 
E.   
Audit.
 
1.     Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b)  
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than  of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is May 31, 2010. 
Page  9
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“ADB” means the Asian Development Bank established in 1966 with its headquarters in 
Manila or any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the World Bank by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  10
8
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds, without the Recipient (or other 
such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
World Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“Identification of Poor Households Targeting System” means the Government targeting 
program, implemented by the Ministry of Planning, that uses a set of standardized 
national procedures to identify poor households throughout Cambodia. 
 
4. 
“Khmer” means the official language of the Kingdom of Cambodia. 
 
5. 
“Minister of Economy and Finance” means the Recipient’s Minister of Economy and 
Finance and any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“National Task Force” means the task force established by Prakas No. 617 SHV.PRK on 
Establishment of National Food Security Task Force for Implementation of an 
Emergency Food Assistance Project on August 18, 2008 which responsibilities include, 
inter alia
 the provision of: (a) guidelines and data to development partners; (b) advice on 
policy during project implementation; and (c) monitoring of the project implementation.  
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated May 22, 2009 from the Recipient to the World Bank declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the World 
Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
8. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule  to this 
Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World 
Bank Out of Various Funds”, dated July 1, 2008, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
10. 
“WFP” means the World Food Program. 
 
Page  11
9
Section II.  Modifications to the Standard Conditions  
 
The modifications to the 
“Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of 
Various Funds”, dated July 1, 2008 are as follows:   
 
1. 
Sections 2.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 2.07 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
 
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
3. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.04. 
Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Grant 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the World 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
4. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 2.05. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the World Bank 
of their respective obligations under the Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant. 
 
5. 
The last sentence of paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 (relating to withdrawals) is deleted in 
its entirety. 
 
6. 
Sections 3.05 (
Designated Accounts
)
and 3.06 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered accordingly. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions 
are modified or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added 
in alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
‘Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Grant is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Grant 
Agreement.” 
 
Page  12
10 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in support of 
which the Grant is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these Standard 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
