                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001700



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-46380; TF-94876)

                                         ON A

                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR3.3 MILLION
                        (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND A

             GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM GRANT
                  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.0 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                             KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                        FOR A

                      SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE AND

                  SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT OPERATION



                                     April 29, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Southeast Asia Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
             CAMBODIA – GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 – December 31

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2010)

                Currency Unit         Cambodian Riel (CR)
                US$1.00               CR4,075


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
CARD     Council for Agriculture and Rural Development
CARDI    Cambodia Agricultural Research and Development Institute
CAS      County Assistance Strategy
CDC      Council for the Development of Cambodia
CDCF     Cambodia Development Cooperation Forum
CFW      Cash For Work
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CMDG     Cambodia Millennium Development Goals
DPL      Development Policy Lending
DPO      Development Policy Operation
EFAP     Emergency Food Assistance Project – ADB
EU       European Union
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
FFW      Food For Work
FO       Farmer Organization
FSNTWG   Food Security and Nutrition Technical Working Group
FWUC     Farmer Water User Community
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GDS      Global Development Solutions
ICR      Implementation Completion and Result Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFAPER   Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure Review
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IPHTS    Identification of Poor Households Targeting System
IWGSSN   Interim Working Group on Social Safety Nets
JDI      Japan Development Institute
LASED    Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development
LMAP     Land Management and Administration Project
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MAFF     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MDTF     Multi Donor Trust Fund (Global Food Crisis Response Program)
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MFI      Micro-Finance Institution
MoH      Ministry of Health
MoI      Ministry of Interior
MoP      Ministry of Planning
MOWRAM   Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology
MRD      Ministry of Rural Development
MTEF     Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NBC      National Bank of Cambodia
NFSTF    National Food Security Task Force
NGO      Non-Government Organization
NPK      Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium
NSDP     National Strategic Development Plan
NSPS     National Social Protection Strategy
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
ODA      Official Development Assistance
PA       Prior Action
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PD       Program Document
PDO      Program Development Objectives
PRGO     Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation
QAG      Quality Assurance Group – World Bank
RDB      Rural Development Bank
RGC      Royal Government of Cambodia
RSF      Risk Sharing Facility
S        Sulfur
SASPSO   Smallholder Agriculture and Social Protection Support Operation
SAW      Strategy for Agriculture and Water
SBF      Strategic Budgeting Framework
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SFP      School Feeding Program
TA       Technical Assistance
TWGAW    Technical Working Group on Agriculture and Water
VAT      Value Added Tax
WB       World Bank
WFP      World Food Program
Vice President:     James W. Adams
Country Director:   Annette Dixon
Sector Director     John A. Roome
Country Manager:    Qimiao Fan
Sector Manager:     Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex
ICR Task Leader:    Mudita Chamroeun
ICR Author:         Timothy Dennis Purcell
                                      PREFACE


The ICR was prepared by Timothy Dennis Purcell and Rachel Lowe (Consultants) under
the guidance of Mudita Chamroeun (ICR Task Leader), with input from Guzman P.
Garcia-Rivero, Joanne S. Nickerson, Paavo Eliste, Stephane Guimbert, Steven
Schonberger, Luc Lecuit, Deborah A. Bateman and Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex. The
ICR is based on a detailed desk review of materials from the project file, relevant
documents from MEF, MAFF, MoWRAM, MoP and the World Bank, a field mission
that took place in October of 2010 including stakeholder workshop report and results, and
discussions with World Bank, Co-Financier and Development Partner staff in Phnom
Penh and Washington.

The team is grateful to H.E Ngy Chanphal (MoI), H.E Vongsey Vissoth (MEF), H.E San
Vanthy (MAFF), Mr. Prak Thavith Amida (MAFF), Mr. Young Heng (CDC), Mr. Mak
Soeun (MAFF), Mr. Tauch Chan Kresna (MEF), Mr. Samreth Chedthaphirum (CDC), Mr.
Chhan Puthearith (MoWRAM), Katherine Mitchell, Brett Ballard, Sovith Sin (AusAid),
Alba Mariana Infante Villarroel Narya Ou and Amara Khiev (World Bank). A list of
workshop attendee and people interviewed in the field is given in Annex 4.
                                CAMBODIA
              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE AND
                   SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT OPERATION

                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring

PROJECT

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................... 1 
     1.1 Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 1 
     1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
     approved) .................................................................................................................... 3 
     1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
     and Reasons/Justification ............................................................................................ 4 
     1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved) .......................... 4 
     1.5 Revised Policy Areas ............................................................................................ 4 
     1.6 Other significant changes ...................................................................................... 4 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 4 
     2.1 Program Performance ........................................................................................... 4 
     2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation ............................................................. 6 
     2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization ..... 8 
     2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any) ............................................. 9 
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................. 10 
     3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ....................................... 10 
     3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives ........................................... 11 
     3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ............................................................ 16 
     3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .......................................... 16 
     3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ... 17 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................... 17 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 17 
     5.1 Bank Performance ............................................................................................... 17 
     5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................ 20 
6. Lessons Learned .......................................................................................................... 21 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....... 21 
ANNEXES



                                                                  i
Annex 1.1. Original Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators ............ 23 
Annex 1.2. Implementation Progress on Original Prior Actions / Benchmarks and
Indicators ......................................................................................................................... 25 
Annex 1.3. Achievement Status towards Objective 1 in Pillar A................................ 30 
Annex 1.4. Achievement Status towards Objective 2 in Pillar A................................ 33 
Annex 1.5. Achievement Status towards Objective 3 in Pillar A................................ 35 
Annex 1.6. Achievement Status towards Objective 4 in Pillar B ................................ 37 
Annex 1.7. Achievement Status towards Objective 5 in Pillar B ................................ 39 
Annex 1.8. Achievement Status towards Objective 6 in Pillar ................................... 41 
Annex 1.9. Risks to Development Outcome .................................................................. 42 
Annex 2. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......... 45 
    (a) Task Team members............................................................................................ 45 
    (b) Staff Time and Cost..............................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................ 46 
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................. 47 
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................. 49 
Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................. 52 
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 53 

MAP IBRD 33381 ........................................................................................................... 54 




                                                                  ii
                       CAMBODIA
      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
  SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE AND SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT
                   OPERATION (SASPSO)

                                    DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                     Smallholder Agriculture
Country:              Cambodia                 Program Name:         and Social Protection
                                                                     Support Operation
                                               L/C/TF                IDA-46380
Program ID:           P117203
                                               Number(s):            GFRP TF-94876
ICR Date:             03/30/2011               ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     Royal Government of
Lending Instrument: DPL (Single Tranche) Borrower:
                                                                     Cambodia (RGC)
                                                                     IDA: SDR 3.3M
                      IDA: SDR 3.3M
Original Total                             Disbursed                 (about USD 5.3M
                      (USD5.0M equivalent)
Commitment:                                Amount:                   equivalent)
                      GFRP TF: USD 8M.
                                                                     GFRP TF: USD 8M
Revised Amount:       N.A.
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
Global Food Crisis Response Program-Multi-Donor Trust Fund (GFRP TF)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process            Date            Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:      12/15/2008    Effectiveness:              10/15/2009         10/15/2009
Appraisal:           05/22/2009    Restructuring(s):
                                   Mid-Term
Approval:            07/09/2009
                                   Review:
Disbursement         11/16/2009    Closing:                    05/31/2010         05/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate



                                              iii
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                              Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                             Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                             Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                                N.A.
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                        No                                                   N.A.
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           N.A.
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural marketing and trade                                       17                   17
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       33                   33
Other social services                                                  50                   50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                            100                 100


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                          James W. Adams
Country Director:          Annette Dixon                           Annette Dixon
                                                                   John A. Roome;
Sector Directors           John Roome
                                                                   Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Sector Manager:            Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex            Rahul Raturi; Xiaqing Yu
Country Manager            Qimiao Fan                              Qimiao Fan



                                                   iv
                                                            Steven N. Schonberger;
Program Team Leader:    Mudita Chamroeun
                                                            Iamele P. Rigolini
ICR Team Leader:        Mudita Chamroeun
ICR Author:             Timothy Dennis Purcell

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Program Development Objective (PDO) of the Smallholder Agriculture and Social
Protection Support Operation Program (SASPSO) was to address the weaknesses in
smallholder agricultural production and social protection systems, which have come
to light during the food price crisis.

When high food and agricultural input prices hit Cambodia in early 2008, it was clear that
existing mechanisms were insufficient to support vulnerable consumers and farmers.
These weaknesses garnered much greater attention by both the Government and
development partners given the on-going effects of high food prices and as the impact of
the global economic crisis are increasingly felt. The US$13 million Development Policy
Operation (DPO) - consisting of a US$8 million grant from the Global Food Response
Program (GFRP TF) and a SDR 3.3 million (expected US$5 million equivalent) credit
from the International Development Association (IDA) - was a stand-alone, single
tranche operation intended to support key policy actions to strengthening the enabling
environment for direct support to poor households. It recognized the actions taken by
Government to stimulate a supply response amongst smallholder farmers and to mitigate
the impact on household food consumption among poor and vulnerable populations. The
operation supported medium-term efforts to improve social safety nets and agricultural
production systems through better policies, strengthened institutional frameworks and
improved transparency and governance. In addition, the project also aimed at
strengthening government’s efforts to improve the transparency and governance of its
pro-poor interventions in response to the crises.

The operation included three Pillars (or policy areas), comprising six specific objectives
and 12 results outcome indicators. This ICR follows the objectives as stated in the main
text of the Program Document (PD), since there were some inconsistencies between this
text and the Policy Matrix in Annex 2. The Result Indicators were presented only in the
Policy Matrix (Annex 2 of the PD). It should also be noted that some of these indicators
were not clearly stated and, in the case of the objectives 1 and 3, the statement of the
objective included what was considered by this ICR review a result indicator. A
summary of these objectives and results indicators, as understood for the review under
the ICR, is presented below.

PILLARS/OBJECTIVES                   RESULT INDICATORS
                    Pillar I: Accelerate Smallholder Rice Supply Response.




                                              v
Objective 1: Increase smallholder           Indicator 1: Smallholder rice yields increased through
yields through improved access to and       increased access to agricultural knowledge and technology.
transparency of seed and fertilizer         Indicator 2: Fertilizer quality variations decreased from
markets.                                    baseline study.

Objective 2: Strengthen the role of         Indicator 3: Increased number of registered farmer
community-based farmer organizations        organizations.
to access inputs and credit, technical      Indicator 4: Legal framework revised to harmonized
support and markets and policy inputs.      requirements to allow single registration to be recognized
                                            among multiple Government agencies, as well as private
                                            contractors.
                                            Indicator 5: Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Communities
                                            passed by Council of Ministers, reflecting stake-holders inputs
                                            and facilitating Operations & Maintenance (O&M).

Objective 3: Improve price incentives       Indicator 6: Increased official rice exports, based on surplus
through expansion of official rice          over consumption needs.
exports.                                    Indicator 7: Increased number of investment applications and
                                            fixed asset value received and approved by CDC for
                                            agribusiness, including rice mills.
                                            Indicator 8: Pilot program for expanding private banks
                                            financing to rice mills and other agribusiness areas agreed
                                            among banks, RGC and donors.

       Pillar II: Expand safety net support and improve its governance through better targeting.
Objective 4: Expand support of              Indicator 9: Number of poor households receiving emergency
emergency interventions for poor, food      assistance from Government.
insecure households.
Objective 5: Improve governance and         Indicator 10: Number of Government safety net interventions
effectiveness of safety net interventions   utilizing the Identification of Poor Households Targeting
through the use of consistent and           System.
transparent targeting.                      Indicator 11: Number of villages covered by the
                                            Identification of Poor Household Program.

             Pillar III: Strengthen oversight of, and learning from, crisis response actions.
Objective 6: Improved governance and        Indicator 12: Quarterly reports available on MEF website on
effectiveness of Government emergency       progress of emergency response actions, including independent
response and crisis policy actions.         monitoring component.

Revised Program Development Objectives.
N.A.




                                                    vi
(a) PDO Indicators

The Policy Matrix (according to the final PD) included 12 Result Outcome Indicators for the six
program objectives. However, not all of these indicators had quantitative values at baseline or
completion targets. There were no Intermediate Results Indicators presented in the PD. The
result indicators, as used for the purposes of the review under this ICR, are presented in the
following table:

                                            Original Target    Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target      Completion or
                                              documents)        Values       Target Years
                   Smallholder rice yields increased through increased access to agricultural
Indicator 1 :
                   knowledge and technology.
Value
(quantitative or   2.6 mt                  3.0 mt                              2.9 mt
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/01/2008              07/10/2013                         03/01/2011
                   According to MAFF Annual Statistics, the national average rice yield was 2.6
Comments
                   MT in 2008/09, increased to 2.8 MT for 2009/10 and it is estimated at 2.9 MT
(incl. %
                   for 2010/11. The final target of 3.0 MT was set for 2013, which is considered
achievement)
                   an achievable target.
Indicator 2 :      Fertilizer quality variations decreased from baseline study.
Value
(quantitative or   21.22%                  Not defined.                        7.45%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/30/2007            07/10/2009                        07/01/2010
Comments           Achieved. Variance decreased from 21.22% (partial baseline study) in 2007 to
(incl. %           7.45% by May 2010. No formal benchmark or permanent monitoring system
achievement)       in place.
Indicator 3 :      Increased number of registered farmer organizations.
Value                                                                      57 in 2009 and
(quantitative or   10 per month      48 per month                          52 in 2010.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/19/2009            07/10/2009                             03/01/2011
Comments           Not fully achieved. Overly ambitious target; not considered as an achievable
(incl. %           target in this short period due to legal complexity and budgetary constraints. It
achievement)       would require substantial technical assistance.
                   Legal framework revised to harmonize requirements to allow single
                   registration to be recognized among multiple government agencies
Indicator 4 :
                   (including MAFF, MOWRAM, MoI, Central Bank), as well as private
                   contractors.
                   No legal
                   framework to allow
Value              single registration Legal framework                          Legal framework
(quantitative or   to be recognized recognizes single                           has not been
Qualitative)       across multiple       registration                           revised yet.
                   government
                   agencies


                                                vii
Date achieved      06/19/2009           07/10/2009                             12/31/2010
                   Not achieved. Individual legislation has been developed by MAFF and
Comments
                   MOWRAM, but no harmonized legislation across ministries has been
(incl. %
                   developed. Does not appear a feasible target in the short run. It would also
achievement)
                   require substantial technical support.
                   Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Communities passed by Council of
Indicator 5 :
                   Ministers, reflecting stakeholder inputs and facilitating O&M.
                                                                               Sub-Decree
                   Draft Sub-Decree Sub-Decree                                 prepared, but still
Value
                   submitted to         approved by                            under
(quantitative or
                   Council of           Council of                             consideration by
Qualitative)
                   Ministers            Ministers                              Council of
                                                                               Ministers.
Date achieved      06/19/2009           07/10/2009                             12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           No fully achieved yet; considered in progress.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Increased official rice exports, based on surplus over consumption needs.
Value
(quantitative or   2 million tons           2 million tons                     2 million tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/01/2009               07/10/2009                         08/01/2010
Comments           Official exports of milled rice were 10,000 tons in 2009 and 13,000 MT in
(incl. %           2010. Unofficial exports estimates of paddy exports to Thailand and Vietnam
achievement)       (from various sources) set the volume at over 2 million tons per year.
                   Increased number of investment applications and fixed asset value
Indicator 7 :
                   received and approved by CDC for agribusiness, including rice mills.
                   4 applications      12 applications                         27 applications
                   received and 4      received and 8                          approved in 2010,
Value
                   applications        applications                            for a total fixed
(quantitative or
                   approved, fixed     approved, fixed                         asset value of
Qualitative)
                   asset value         asset value US$200                      about US$598
                   US$93.8 million million                                     million.
Date achieved      12/31/2008          07/10/2009                              03/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
                   Pilot program for expanding private bank financing to rice mills and other
Indicator 8 :
                   agribusiness areas agreed among banks, RGC and donors.
Value
(quantitative or   0                   1                                        1
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/19/2009         07/10/2009                            12/31/2010
Comments           Achieved. Bank approval of the Cambodia Agribusiness Access to Finance
(incl. %           Project (USD 5 million) was on 12/16/2010 and effectiveness expected in early
achievement)       CY2011.
                   Number of poor households receiving emergency assistance from
Indicator 9 :
                   Government.



                                                viii
Value
(quantitative or   0 people               300,000 people                    342,835 people
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/31/2008             07/10/2009                        08/01/2010
Comments
                   Achieved. Emergency distribution of rice to 342,853 people in 200
(incl. %
                   communes.
achievement)
                   Number of Government safety net interventions utilizing the Identification
Indicator 10
                   of Poor Households Targeting System.
Value
                   ID Poor covering 2 ID Poor covering 4                    ID Poor covering 4
(quantitative or
                   safety net systems safety net systems                    safety net systems
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/31/2008         07/10/2009                            08/01/2010
Comments
                   Achieved. Targeted Safety Net Systems (i) Health Equity Funds, (ii) Targeted
(incl. %
                   Land Allocation, (iii) Emergency Food Distribution, and (iv) Food For Work.
achievement)
                   Number of villages covered by the Identification of Poor Household
Indicator 11 :
                   Program.
Value
(quantitative or   2218 villages          5000 villages                     5000 villages
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/31/2008             07/10/2009                        08/01/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
                   Quarterly reports available on MEF website on progress of emergency
Indicator 12 :
                   response actions, including independent monitoring component.
Value
(quantitative or   0                      4                                 4
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/19/2009             07/10/2009                        08/01/2010
Comments
                   Achieved. Quarterly reports have been generated under the ADB’s Emergency
(incl. %
                   Food Assistance Project and posted on MEF and ADB EFAP websites.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring. Not Applicable




                                               ix
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background. Cambodia emerged from three decades of instability with an
impressive record of sustained growth and poverty reduction. The country’s economy
achieved a decade of remarkable growth, averaging seven percent GDP growth per year
between 1997 and 2007. This performance relied on four sources of growth: rapid
garment export growth, strong tourism receipts, a continuing construction boom, and
volatile but increasing yields in agriculture. Per capita income between 1997 and 2007
doubled from US$285 to US$593 per year. This growth pattern had a profound impact
on poverty, which fell from an estimated 47 percent in 1994 to 30 percent in 2007, and
contributed to improving human development indicators. Despite this impressive rate of
poverty reduction, one out of three individuals continued to live below the poverty line,
and poverty incidence largely remained a rural phenomenon. Several health and nutrition
indicators remained at critical levels.

Considerable risks have emerged since late 2008, including: (i) a slowdown of growth
caused by spillovers from the global financial crisis; (ii) higher inflation; and (iii) strains
on the banking sector as the economy slowed down.

Food Price Crisis and Economic Slowdown. Cambodia was particularly vulnerable to
spillovers from the global financial crisis given its narrow production base, concentration
of exports by product and destination, and dependence on external inflows. As an open
economy with few effective trade barriers, Cambodia was highly exposed to the rapid
worldwide increase in food prices in 2008. The price of rice, the country’s staple food,
rose substantially - 40 percent between January and December 2008. The increase in
food prices experienced in 2008 negatively affected more than 70 percent of the poor,
and more than 78 percent of the non-poor, and simulations suggested that this resulted in
a net increase in poverty of up to 3.3 percent. The crisis had a particularly adverse effect
on the rural landless and the land poor, since these primarily depend on income from
daily wage labor in their villages and migration to cities. Reduced opportunities for day
labor and migration increased pressure on the agricultural sector, that had to stretch to
absorb the spillover effects.

The increase in food prices had a strong distributional impact, benefitting net food
producers while hurting net food consumers, and stretching the capacity of the poor to
cope with shocks. High price fluctuations created an unpredictable economic
environment that strained the capacity of the poor to plan and cope with risk, increasing
vulnerability. High rates of movements in and out of poverty therefore called for scaling
up and restructuring safety net interventions, the latter because beneficiaries of assistance
that had been identified as poor before the crisis did not necessarily correspond to the
“post-crisis” poor.




                                              1
Government’s Response and Program. The Government’s response to the food price
crisis and the slowing economy included a focus on: (i) immediate measures to mitigate
the high price of food and agricultural inputs on vulnerable households; and (ii) medium-
term measures to strengthen smallholder agriculture and broaden the coverage, range and
governance aspects of safety nets for vulnerable households. The response was
characterized by both immediate and medium-term aspects, reflecting the social impact
of the continuing high price of food and the worsening economic effects of the global
financial crisis. The response also reflected the growing acknowledgement of the
structural and institutional weaknesses in agriculture and social protection, to be
addressed in order for the country to weather future shocks more effectively and to
sustain the country’s track record of economic growth and poverty alleviation.

Rationale for the Bank Involvement. As this project was an emergency response to the
food crisis, the operation was not anticipated under the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS)1 though its focus on governance elements was consistent with the central focus of
the Bank’s support to Cambodia. Before the crisis, the Bank’s engagement in the
agricultural sector was limited to analytical work and participation in the development of
Cambodia’s Strategy on Agriculture and Water (SAW) through the Technical Working
Group for Agriculture and Water (TWGAW). No specific social protection operation
was programmed, other than the analytical work carried out as part of the preparation of
the Social Protection Policy Note.

Since the 2008 crisis, the Bank has increased its support to the agricultural and social
protection sectors, both of which are high priorities for the Government. In the context of
the food and financial crisis, the development of the agriculture sector gained increased
relevance within the broader poverty reduction Millennium Development Goals (MDG)
that the CAS supported. The crisis significantly elevated the priority of Government to
strengthen and broaden social safety nets to avoid significant deterioration of the poverty
reduction achievements seen in recent years. The Bank’s key role in the development of
programmatic support for the health and education sectors, and extensive global
experience with a wide range of safety net modalities led Government to seek Bank
support in the preparation of the Government’s social protection strategy and potential
options for safety net interventions.

In considering how best to leverage the Bank Group’s growing support to rural-based
poverty reduction and development of social protection services, the Development Policy
Operation (DPO) was designed to complement on-going donor support to develop actions
in the rice and other export-oriented agricultural value chains, which included a majority
of rural households. The operation was developed as part of a larger coordinated and
programmatic approach to food security, which included emergency response actions by
the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), World
Food Program (WFP), European Union (EU), and Australian Agency for International


1
 At the DPO preparation, the Cambodia program was operating a three year extension of the FY05-08
CAS.



                                                  2
Development (AusAID). The National Food Security Task Force (NFSTF), under the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), coordinated the actions of the various donors.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the operation was to address the weaknesses in
smallholder agricultural production and social protection systems which have come
to light during the Food Price Crisis.

The operation included three Pillars (or policy areas), comprising six specific objectives.
This ICR follows the objectives as stated in the main text of the Program Document (PD),
since there were some inconsistencies between this text and the Policy Matrix in Annex 2.
On the other hand, the Result Indicators were presented only in the Policy Matrix (Annex
2 of the PD). It should also be noted that some of these indicators were not clearly stated
in the PD and, in the case of the objectives 1 and 3, the statement of the objective
included what was considered by this ICR review a result indicator. A summary of these
objectives and corresponding result indicators (as used for the purposes of this ICR) is
presented in the following table:

PILLARS/OBJECTIVES                       RESULT INDICATORS
                       Pillar I: Accelerate Smallholder Rice Supply Response.
Objective 1: Increase smallholder        Indicator 1: Smallholder rice yields increased through
yields through improved access to and    increased access to agricultural knowledge and technology.
transparency of seed and fertilizer      Indicator 2: Fertilizer quality variations decreased from
markets.                                 baseline study.

Objective 2: Strengthen the role of      Indicator 3: Increased number of registered farmer
community-based farmer organizations     organizations.
to access inputs and credit, technical   Indicator 4: Legal framework revised to harmonized
support and markets and policy inputs.   requirements to allow single registration to be recognized
                                         among multiple Government agencies, as well as private
                                         contractors.
                                         Indicator 5: Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Communities
                                         passed by Council of Ministers, reflecting stake-holders inputs
                                         and facilitating O&M.

Objective 3: Improve price incentives    Indicator 6: Increased official rice exports, based on surplus
through expansion of official rice       over consumption needs.
exports.                                 Indicator 7: Increased number of investment applications and
                                         fixed asset value received and approved by CDC for
                                         agribusiness, including rice mills.
                                         Indicator 8: Pilot program for expanding private banks
                                         financing to rice mills and other agribusiness areas agreed
                                         among banks, Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) and
                                         donors.

     Pillar II: Expand safety net support and improve its governance through better targeting.
Objective 4: Expand support of           Indicator 9: Number of poor households receiving emergency
emergency interventions for poor, food   assistance from Government.
insecure households.


                                                  3
Objective 5: Improve governance and         Indicator 10: Number of Government safety net interventions
effectiveness of safety net interventions   utilizing the Identification of Poor Households Targeting
through the use of consistent and           System.
transparent targeting.                      Indicator 11: Number of villages covered by the
                                            Identification of Poor Household Program.

             Pillar III: Strengthen oversight of, and learning from, crisis response actions.
Objective 6: Improved governance and        Indicator 12: Quarterly reports available on MEF website on
effectiveness of Government emergency       progress of emergency response actions, including independent
response and crisis policy actions.         monitoring component.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
N.A.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The DPO supported the following three policy areas (Pillars):

Smallholder Rice Supply Response. This policy pillar focused on the key actions to
increase the productivity of the country’s smallholder-based rice economy to be able to
supply domestic and international food needs. It had three objectives: (i) to increase
smallholder yields through improved access to and transparency of seed and fertilizer
markets; (ii) to strengthen the role of community-based farmer organizations to access
inputs and credit, technical support and markets, and policy inputs; and (iii) to improve
price incentives through expansion of official rice exports.

Safety Net Support and Governance. This policy pillar had two objectives: (i) to
expand support of emergency interventions for poor, food insecure households; and (ii) to
improve governance and effectiveness of safety net interventions through the use of
consistent and transparent targeting.

Strengthening Oversight and Learning from Crisis Response Actions. This pillar had
the only objective of improving governance and effectiveness of Government emergency
response and crisis policy actions.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas
N.A.

1.6 Other significant changes
N.A.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance




                                                    4
The Policy Matrix in the PD included actions for 2009-2010 that were used by the
Government and development partners to assess progress. Annex 1.2 provides the
status -at project closing- of the Prior Actions (PA) and benchmarks developed and
agreed at project inception in June 2009. In general, the Government achieved all of the
Prior Actions recognized by the DPO and all of the implementation actions and
benchmarks have been achieved (or they are likely to be achieved). However, some
quantitative targets were not fully met (for details see Section 3.2). It is important to
recognize that several complementary donor-funded projects contributed substantially
towards achieving some prior actions, e.g., ADB’s Emergency Food Assistance Project
(EFAP) and the World Food Program (WFP). Also Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF) collaboration was instrumental in the response to the safety net assistance with the
one-time distribution of rice, wet and dry season rice seed and fertilizer.

This stand-alone operation included a single tranche of a total of US$13 million (US$8
million grant from the Global Food Crisis Response Program – AusAID funding, and
US$5 million equivalent IDA Credit). There were no changes to the design or the
conditionality of the DPO (not restructured). Disbursement was carried out in one
tranche, shortly after effectiveness and upon request by Royal Government of Cambodia
(RGC). Project closing occurred on the original closing date of May 31, 2010. Given the
nature of the operation and the short implementation period, there was no need for
routine supervision and no ISR had been prepared (project was never “at risk”), as the
main focus of Bank supervision support was helping Government to achieve agreed
policy actions through various complementary TA and analytical work, significant
progress was made in this areas both on SP and agriculture areas. While some TA
provided direct support for the implementation of the agreed actions, others - mainly
analytical work - provided valuable knowledge products which will continue to shape and
support Government efforts in implementation policy actions which were initiated by this
DPO, as well as helping to produce appropriate knowledge products which have
catalyzed and sustained the implementation of agreed policy actions ignited by DPO;.

Table below summarizes the status of Prior Actions:

                                Single Tranche--Conditions for tranche release.
    Pillars/Prior Actions                                                     Status of Compliance2
    Pillar I: Accelerate Smallholder Rice Supply Response.
    Prior Action 1: Establishing a price and quality oversight          Achieved.
    mechanism for monitoring fertilizer prices and quality that
    includes random sampling for price and quality tests throughout
    the supply chain, as well as improved farmer information and
    labeling in Khmer.
    Prior Action 2: Accelerating the registration of farm               Partially Achieved. The
    organizations based on an additional budget allocated for this      acceleration was achieved;
    purpose.                                                            however, the number of
                                                                        registered farmer organizations



2
    See Annex 1.2 for further details.



                                                     5
                                                                        did not reach the target of 48 per
                                                                        month set for the Outcome
                                                                        Indicator (see Data Sheet
                                                                        Indicator No. 3 and section 3.2
                                                                        below).
 Prior Action 3: Lifting the ban on rice exports through Inter-         Achieved
 Ministerial Prakas No. 105. MOC/SM2008 of April 9, 2008, on
 Authorization of Exports of all Kinds of Dry Season Rice Grown
 and Harvested in Geographical Areas of Prey Veng, Kandal and
 Takeo Provinces.
 Pillar II: Expand safety net support and improve its governance
 through better targeting.
 Prior Action 4: Signing on April 24, 2008 a Memorandum of              Achieved
 Understanding with the World Food Program for the provision
 during three (3) years of two thousand (2000) metric tons per year
 of rice for, inter alia, school feeding and food for work program.
 Prior Action 5: Initiating implementation of emergency safety net      Achieved
 assistance in two hundred (200) communes through a one-time
 rice distribution (from October 29 to November 5, 2008) and a two
 (2) year food and cash for work program for 2009 and 2010.
 Prior Action 6 (i): Expanding the roles and responsibilities of the    Achieved
 National Food Security Task Force to ensure and monitor the
 application of the Identification of Poor Households Targeting
 System in the distribution of food and agriculture materials to poor
 households and of cash and food for work program under the
 purview of said Task Force.
 Prior Action 6 (ii): Initiating consultations on and submitting to     Achieved
 the Council of Ministers a Draft Sub-decree mandating the use of
 the procedures for Identification of Poor Households as the
 national targeting system and the use of the ID Poor data for
 appropriate safety net interventions.
 Prior Action 6 (iii): Mandating the expansion of the ID Poor           Achieved
 Targeting system to cover 3000 additional villages.
 Pillar III: Strengthen oversight of, and learning from, crisis
 response actions
 Prior Action 7: Establishing a monitoring and public reporting         Partially achieved
 mechanism on the implementation of activities under the overview       Project quarterly reports
 of the National Food Security Task Force; (i) said monitoring          developed and available. The
 mechanism and the resulting quarterly reports to cover, inter alia,    monitoring and reporting
 distribution of fertilizer and seed to smallholders, registration of   mechanism is project-based. This
 farmer organizations, measures to improve rice exports, safety         is not institutional practice and
 nets for food-vulnerable households, and application of the            is therefore not considered
 Identification of Poor Households Targeting System; and (ii) said      sustainable.
 quarterly reports to be publically disseminated, including through
 the Ministry of Economy and Finance website and through
 technical working groups for agriculture, water, food security and
 nutrition.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

As the overall performance of the DPO has been timely and satisfactory, the major
factors affecting implementation have been positive and conducive to the continued
success of the program.



                                                    6
Adequacy of Government’s commitment. The Government’s commitment to the DPO
was high, as demonstrated by the completion of almost all Prior Actions and expected
activities on time. Both government and development partner stakeholder participation
was high, including during the DPO policy matrix development.

There were no significant changes in design, scope and scale, or implementation
arrangements. The DPO grant and credit were designed as a single tranche operation
and were fully disbursed after effectiveness on request by the RGC (disbursed on
11/16/2009). The completion of the Prior Actions and the maintenance of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework were sufficient to release the funds. Disbursements were not
linked to specific expenditures and no procurement actions were involved. Funds
disbursed under this DPO were credited to the National Treasury to finance
Government’s budgeted expenditures and properly incorporated into the Government’s
accounting records and financial statements. The Government has achieved the majority
of the results outcome indicators. Activities under the Social Protection and Safety Net
Program are continuing.

Beneficiary targeting. Targeting for the emergency distribution of rice, seed and
fertilizer was occasionally problematic. This related to the uneven application of the ID
Poor Program methodology. In areas where distribution was undertaken using ID Poor
beneficiary lists, a better coverage of households was achieved and fewer complaints
were received. The ID Poor Program has been expanded to cover 342,000 people (against
a target of 300,000).

Soundness of the background analysis. Considering the nature of the operation (time–
bound response to a crisis situation), the background analysis carried out for the operation
was adequate, although limited. At the time of project identification, Bank engagement
in agriculture sector was limited to analytical work and participation in the development
of Cambodia’s Strategy for Agriculture and Water (SAW). The global food price crisis
significantly elevated the Government’s priority to strengthen and broaden social safety
nets to avoid significant deterioration of the poverty reduction achievements in recent
years. The Bank played a key role in the development of programmatic support for the
health and education sectors, and had extensive global experience with a wide range of
safety net modalities that was directly applicable and used to support Government in the
preparation of its social protection strategy and potential options for safety net
interventions. The DPO was designed to complement donor support to develop rice and
other export-oriented agricultural value chains. The entire preparation of the operation,
from the concept review to Board approval, took less than seven months; therefore, not
allowing for substantial additional analytical work.

Assessment of the operation design. Considering the time constraints faced by the
preparation team, the design of the program was adequate. The three Pillars of the Policy
Matrix were appropriate to the situation and were designed to mitigate the new trend
towards growing poverty brought by the global food price crisis. However, some of the
targets were a bit ambitious and required a longer time to achieve; they may have been
more appropriate for a regular lending operation with a longer implementation period.



                                             7
Pillar I (accelerating smallholder rice supply response) had the sound objective of
increasing smallholder rice yields, but the target of increasing average national yields
would normally extend beyond the 12-month time frame of the DPO. The outcome
indicator in the Policy Matrix is not clear as to the target date, but the text of the PD
clearly sets the target of 3 metric tons per ha to be achieved in 2013. Similarly, the
acceleration of registration of farmer organizations was also overly ambitious for a short
period (target of 48 new organizations registered per month). Pillar II (expanding safety
net support and improve its governance through better targeting) and Pillar III
(strengthening oversight, and learning from, crisis response actions) were particularly
appropriate and were largely achieved.

There were some relatively weaker aspects in the preparation of the operation and, more
specifically, in the design of the results framework. These were:

   (a) the causal relationships and underlying assumptions about how the proposed
       actions would lead to the intended outcomes were not always evident in the
       results framework. In most cases, the proposed actions seemed only a partial and
       restricted approach to tackle such complex and difficult objectives in such a short
       horizon;
   (b) the set of proposed results outcome indicators could have been more carefully
       selected. Not all of them meet the basic principles of being reliable, comparable,
       specific, measurable and realistic for this type of operation; and
   (c) the results framework should have been more clearly presented, indicating the
       objectives, proposed actions, results and time-bound targets in a systematic way.
       This would have provided a clearer picture of the operation, as well as a
       framework easier to monitor.

The single tranche was disbursed against prior policy actions (Prior Actions) taken by the
government but implementation actions and targets were identified for each of the pillar
objectives. Some actions required additional Technical Assistance (TA) support, which
was provided through Bank and AusAID Trust Funds. However, it was not always
realistic to link the DPO actions and targets to the TA support, as it created a mismatch
between the short implementation period of the DPO and the implementation of
analytical work, which required significantly longer time periods due to the need to
sequence certain activities with the broad-based consultation process with stake-holders
to find common ground and an adequate buy-in on required policy and regulatory actions.
Based on the overall compliance with the Prior Actions, the single-tranche was fully
disbursed.

Relevance of the risks identified. The risks identified at appraisal were relevant, and the
mitigation measures were effective. In addition to the risk identified in the PD, there was
no unforeseen risk during implementation. The overall risk rating of Moderate was
adequate. The Annex 1.9 and Section 4 indicate that of the 13 risks identified at appraisal,
the risk rating of only three at the time of the ICR was greater than originally evaluated..

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization



                                             8
The M&E system design is rated moderately satisfactory. One area of policy action
within the DPO (Prior Action 7) was to establish a monitoring and public reporting
mechanism on the implementation of activities under the overview of the National Food
Security Task Force (NFSTF). This reporting system was part of a larger coordinated
response to the food crisis and involved other donors such as ADB. Quarterly reports that
documented the progress of the emergency response actions were to be made available on
the MEF website and disseminated to technical working groups. Monitoring did take
place, but it did so under the project framework, rather than through an institutionalized
M&E framework of the NFSTF. While there is no question of the success of the
monitoring and reporting mechanism under the NFSTF, there remains doubt whether this
would continue in the absence of specific donor funds being allocated to this service.
The overall rating for the M&E design is rated moderately satisfactory due to the issues
already noted in the preparation of the results framework and the set of indicators, as
presented above in the section related to the assessment of project design.

M&E implementation is also rated moderately satisfactory. M&E was undertaken as
a component of the projects that responded to emergency assistance interventions in the
context of the food crisis. These projects included the emergency distribution of rice and
the social safety net interventions of Food for Work (FFW) and Cash for Work (CFW).
However, this system produced results only on an ad-hoc basis and does not seem to be
fully capable of producing reliable data in a sustainable manner, unless it is significantly
strengthened through parallel technical assistance.

M&E systems under the Strategic Budget Framework/Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (SBF/MTEF) have been put in place in MEF and have been piloted in the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) and Ministry of Water Resources
and Meteorology (MOWRAM). More work needs to be done in order to institutionalize
M&E systems within the Government systems. It is recognized that this is a longer-term
objective and continuing support will need to be provided from development partners.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation.

Although no particular operation is currently in the lending program, there is fertile
ground to continue to address policy issues in the agricultural and social protection
sectors in Cambodia through a subsequent series of DPOs. In July 2010, the Government
approved the policy on Promotion of Paddy Production and Rice Export. The policy lays
out a clear vision and strategy encompassing short-, medium- and long-term policy,
regulatory and institutional measures to promote rice exports which could be addressed
through DPO-like operation. Furthermore, the Bank has recently carried out a number of
analytical studies on agriculture as part of the Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and
Public Expenditure Review (IFAPER), as well as several studies on input markets (i.e.,
seed and fertilizer) which are currently on-going. These studies identify a number of
areas for policy-related actions that constitute a very attractive set of opportunities for
unlocking the economic development potential of the agriculture sector. Furthermore,
the analytical work on Pillar I, which was carried out under the supplementary AusAID
funded Trust Fund, provides a fertile knowledge base for the identification of meaningful



                                              9
policy and regulatory actions which could be addressed effectively under a follow-up
DPO-type operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The short-term objectives to enhance agricultural productivity and to mitigate the impact
of the food crisis and the medium-term poverty reduction objective to strengthen the
enabling environment for direct support poor households remain highly relevant to the
Government’s development priorities and strategies. The DPO, as designed and
implemented, was fully aligned with the Government’s priorities to enhance the
agricultural sector (promoting economic growth) and to enhance the efficiency and
effectiveness of reform programs in all sectors towards reduction of poverty and the
achievement of sustainable development. These areas were prioritized in the 2006-2010
National Strategic Development Plan (NSDP) to Cambodia’s Millennium Development
Goals (CMDGs) in alignment with the global MDGs, and the Government’s Rectangular
Strategy. The DPO was also in alignment with the overarching policies and enabling
environment (Pillar A) and Pillars D ‘Food Security’ and F ‘Agricultural Business and
Marketing’ of the Government’s Strategy for Agriculture and Water (2010-2013), which
includes a clear results orientation.

Neither agriculture nor social protection is explicitly part of the current CAS (2008-2011),
because other donors were expected to compensate for the Bank’s absence (which did not
happen in practice). There has always been demand from the Government and other
Development Partners for the Bank’s engagement and support in the agricultural and
social protection sectors. The DPO provided a basis for the Bank to re-engage in the
agricultural and social protection sectors. The Government’s current strategy (2008 to
2013) emphasizes agriculture as a means to sustain poverty-reducing growth. In addition,
the higher food and fuel prices and the slowing economy increased the recognition of the
need to build capacity for safety nets. As such, the Bank’s implementation assistance was
responsive to the changing needs of the country and the operation remains important in
terms of achieving Government’s and Bank’s development objectives.

Beyond this DPO, there is scope for the Bank to continue to support these sector agendas
through analytical work, policy dialogue, project-based support and program/budget
financing over the medium-term. While the National Social Protection Strategy (NSPS)
went through the endorsement process at the Council of Ministers, the implementation
process has received further support from the AusAid-World Bank Trust Fund for social
protection. It has been extended until June 2012 to cover additional activities related to
technical assistance for the implementation of the NSPS and agriculture related policy
actions being coordinated by CARD’s Social Protection Coordination Unit3. The NSPS


3
  Decision on the establishment of the Social Protection Coordination Unit of the Council for Agricultural
and Rural Development, Office of the Council of Ministers, July 12 2010.



                                                    10
was officially approved in a Full Cabinet Meeting chaired by Samdech Prime Minister on
March 18th, 2011.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory, as most of the objectives were achieved.

In terms of the achievement of the six objectives stated in the PD, five are assessed as
“achieved” and only one (Objective 2; Pillar I) is considered “not fully achieved” (still
“in progress”), based on the results outcome indicators. A detailed description of the
achievements under the DPO follows.

Pillar I: Accelerate Smallholder Rice Supply Response.

Objective 1: Increase smallholder yields through increased access to and transparency
of seed and fertilizer markets (Achieved).

Overall, progress towards achievement of this objective was satisfactory (for details see
Annex 1.3). Both targets (for Indicators 1 and 2) were achieved, in terms of average
national rice yields and decreased variation in fertilizer quality. In retrospect, both of
these targets were ambitious based on past performance of the sector, however, they were
accomplished.

Indicator 1: Smallholder rice yields increased. Average yields in the 2009-2010 wet
season were 2.64 mt/ha while dry season yields averaged 4.21 mt/ha, leading to a total
national average of 2.77 mt/ha. This average yield masks significant variation in
provincial yields in key rice producing areas, with Pailin (3.7 mt/ha), Takeo (3.6 mt/ha),
Phnom Penh (3.3 mt/ha), Kandal (3.6 mt/ha) and Kampong Cham (3.5 mt/ha) all
exceeding the target. According to MAFF draft Annual Report for 2010/11, the national
average rice yield for this season was about 2.9 mt/ha. Therefore, the target of 3 mt/ha,
which was set for 2013, is within reach. Provided there is a continued effort on the
government side to support smallholder rice production, the target of 3 mt/ha could be
certainly achieved by 2013.

Indicator 2: Fertilizer quality variations decreased. There was no comprehensive
study carried out to define a reliable baseline benchmark. It is normally difficult to come
up with a benchmark indicator for fertilizer quality as each blend is different and there
are different amounts of Nitrogen (N), Phosphorus (P), Potassium (K) and Sulfur (S)
specified. Using a 15-15-15 blend (N-P-K) for comparison, a study undertaken for the
World Bank by Japan Development Institute (JDI), Global Development Solutions
(GDS) and Cambodia Biological in November 2007 showed that the variance in Nitrogen
averaged 21.22%. Under a project study (under a parallel TA) carried out in May 2010
(“Rapid Appraisal of Fertilizer Quality in Cambodia”), 103 samples were tested for
nutrient content; showing the variance was 7.45%. Most of the variability in content can
be traced back to poor manufacturing processes, mainly in Vietnam, rather than
adulteration within the Cambodian supply chain.




                                            11
Even though not a result outcome indicator (defined as part of the actions under Prior
Action 1), the proposed universal labeling of fertilizers in Khmer was not accomplished.
While legislation currently mandates labeling in Khmer, full implementation of this is not
realistic in such a short time frame given that the majority of fertilizer used and sold in
Cambodia is imported informally by a large number small traders, who would be difficult
to control given the general institutional weakness of the agencies responsible for the
enforcement of this law. However, there are signs that the situation is improving through
industry-led efforts where larger and formal importers of fertilizer find it beneficial to use
Khmer language labeling as a way to increase its sales.

The following actions/benchmarks specified in the PD were also fully accomplished:
(i) a price and quality oversight mechanism for monitoring fertilizer prices and quality
has been established; (ii) a reduction in the price of agricultural inputs, duties and the
VAT have been suspended through the implementation of the Prakas on Revision of
Duty and Placement of Value-Added Tax as the State’s Burden on Certain Imported
Goods; (iii) the subsidized distribution of seed and fertilizer to selected smallholder
farmers was expanded (1,446 tons of free seed was distributed to a total of 74,457
farmers (wet and dry season) in May and November 2009 and May 2010); (iv) the
assessments for development of market strengthening approaches for seed and fertilizer
for smallholder farmers were completed; (v) specific budget allocation for irrigation
operation and maintenance was made (US$ 6 million disbursed to train Farmer Water
User Communities to manage and maintain 15 new and rehabilitated irrigation schemes
in five provinces; and (vi) an inter-ministerial committee was established to coordinate an
Operations and Maintenance (O&M) budget of US$7million for 2011.

Objective 2: Strengthen the role of community based farmer organizations to access
inputs and credit, technical support and markets and policy inputs (Not Fully
Achieved).

Progress towards this objective has been moderately unsatisfactory (for details see of
Annex 1.4), because the targets for the three results indicators were not fully achieved.

Indicator 3: Increased number of registered farmer organizations. The target of 48
associations registered by month was not reached, mainly because it was an overly
ambitious target value for a DPO-type operation with a short implementation period.
While there has been progress towards establishment and registration of farmer
organizations of different types, the number of registered organizations was below target
as a result of procedural delays. Thus, only 57 organizations were registered by MAFF
during 2009 and 52 during 2010 (a national total of about 109 in the two year period
2009-2010), which is much less than the target of 48 per month nationwide (which would
be 576 per year). The rate of achievement is about 10 percent. At the time of evaluation,
MAFF has received approval for a US$1 million budget to implement a pilot project to
register and build management capacity of additional Farmer Organizations within
MAFF’s official registration and operational guidelines.




                                             12
It should be noted that MAFF is responsible for the following three types of Farmer
Organizations: (i) Farmer Cooperatives; (ii) Community Forestry Groups; and (iii)
Community Fisheries Groups. In addition, there are other organizational types outside
the remit of MAFF, namely, Farmer Water User Communities (under MOWRAM),
Farmer Associations registered by the Ministry of Interior and various types of farmer
organizations, self-help groups, mostly informal, established by NGOs or through
partnerships with private sector.

Among MAFF registered farmer organizations the cooperatives are envisioned to become
the highest form of farmer organizations, which unite commercializing smallholder
farmers who have moved beyond the food security stage and are able and willing to meet
the market requirements for their produce. These groups are expected to emerge from a
wide range of informal farmer organizations supported by donors and NGOs. The public
support to farmer cooperatives includes technical advisory services and low interest loans
mainly for activities related to post-harvest storage and marketing. However, as the
development of commercially viable farmer organizations is a long-term process which
involves various stages of transformation, it is thus natural that registration of these
groups would require a certain degree of selectivity in order to ensure the best use of
public funds. Hence, while the Government’s goal to identify and register farmer
cooperatives was valid, its targets may have been too ambitious given the complexity of
the process.

Indicator 4: Legal framework revised to harmonize requirements to allow single
registration to be recognized among multiple Government agencies, as well as private
contractors. The program target of establishing a process for review and revision of the
legal framework for farmer organizations and a mechanism for influencing agricultural
policies, were only partially achieved. At the time of evaluation, they were under
implementation or expected to be completed as part of follow-up projects. The adoption
of new legislation regarding the registration of new farmer organizations, has proven to
be a more complex and time consuming task than expected. The Bank has launched a
study to assess the role and impact of farmer organizations on food security and on the
livelihoods of smallholder farmers, which will lead to a follow-up study to identify ways
to address specific gaps in legal framework governing various types of farmer
organizations in Cambodia.

Indicator 5: Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Communities (FWUC) passed by
Council of Ministers, reflecting stakeholders inputs and facilitating O&M. The FWUC
Sub-Decree has been drafted, reviewed and submitted to the Council of Ministers, but has
not been approved yet.

Objective 3: Improve price incentives through expansion of official rice exports.
(Achieved).

Progress towards this objective could be considered as satisfactory based on the
achievement of all the targets set for the three result outcome indicators (for details refer
to Annex 1.5).



                                              13
Indicator 6: Increased official rice exports, based on surplus over consumption needs.
Cambodia already exports over 2 million tons of paddy rice unofficially through Vietnam
and Thailand, with an incomplete official record of the exports of milled rice. The Policy
Document on the Promotion of Paddy Rice Production and Export of Milled Rice sets an
official target of 1 million tons of milled rice export by 2015. It should be noted that
exports of rice directly from Cambodia are constrained in the short-and medium-term
primarily due to limited port and transport infrastructure, and to a lesser extent due to
limited (but improving) capacities of the milling sector. It is thus expected that exports of
paddy through neighboring countries will remain a main route for Cambodian rice for
some time to come. However, the official recording of rice exports (paddy and milled
rice) has not been implemented yet, at least to the level of accurately reflecting the actual
total volume of exports.

Indicator 7: Increased number of investment applications and fixed asset value
received and approved by CDC for agribusiness, including rice mills. During the years
2009 and 2010, a total of 55 investment applications (28 and 27 respectively), with fixed
asset value of US$ 1,237 million ($638 and $599 per year, respectively), were approved
by CDC for agribusiness, including rice mills. This achievement represented around 350
percent of the original completion target.

Indicator 8: Pilot program for expanding private banks financing to rice mills and
other agribusiness areas agreed among banks, RGC and donors. The initial focus on
analytical work on access to agricultural finance was on establishment of partial credit
guarantee instrument to stimulate lending to the agribusiness sector. The need for this
work changed in the course of the DPO implementation, as the Bank and IFC engaged
with the Government in the preparation of a Risk Share Facility (RSF), a form of partial
credit guarantee instrument, which aimed to unlock commercial bank and micro-finance
institutions (MFI) lending to agribusiness sector. The Agribusiness Access to Finance
Project was approved by the World Bank on December 16, 2010. In addition, the Bank is
planning to carry out a broader study, which would document the situation and expected
near-term trends on agricultural finance landscape in Cambodia and identify barriers to
different types of agricultural finance beyond the narrow focus of partial credit
guarantees.

Other actions mentioned in the PD for this objective have also been achieved, including:
(i) ban of rice exports lifted; (ii) administrative fees and tax requirements to encourage
agribusiness investments, including rice mills, reduced; and (iii) work to assess
mechanisms for increasing financing to rice mills and development of approaches to
support expansion of private sector financing initiated.

Pillar II: Expand safety net support and improve its governance through better
targeting.

Objective 4: Expand support of emergency interventions for poor, food insecure
households (Achieved).



                                             14
Progress towards this objective has been satisfactory (for details refer to Annex 1.6).
The Government was effective in delivering emergency interventions in the face of the
national food crisis, and was able to coordinate implementation efforts among
implementing agencies and donor projects, such as the Food and Agriculture
Organization’s (FAO) Food Facility project and the ADB EFAP project.

Indicator 9: Number of poor households receiving emergency assistance from
Government. The target of reaching 300,000 people was surpassed and a total of
342,835 people benefitted from rice emergency distribution in 200 communes in
2009/2010. Specific intermediate actions that led to achievement of the objective
included: (i) signing on April 24, 2008, of a Memorandum of Understanding with the
World Food Program (WFP) for the provision over three years of 2,000 mt per year of
rice for school feeding and food for work program, and successful implementation of the
two programs in four target provinces; (ii) initiating implementation of emergency safety
net assistance in 200 communes through a one-time rice distribution and a two-year food
and cash for work programs for 2009 and 2010; and (iii) 20 percent of the poorest
villagers (68,000 vulnerable households or 342,853 people) identified as the target
beneficiary group for emergency assistance in 200 communes, utilizing the ID Poor
Targeting system.

Objective 5: Improve governance and effectiveness of safety net interventions through
the use of consistent and transparent targeting (Achieved).

Progress towards this objective has been satisfactory since all implementing actions and
results indicators have been met (for further details see Annex 1.7).

Indicator 10: Number of Government safety net interventions utilizing the
Identification of Poor Households Targeting System. The National Food Security Task
Force and the implementing agencies of safety net interventions were able to use the ID
Poor Targeting system to deliver safety net measures (free rice, seed, discounted
fertilizer) to the most needy through four main targeted safety systems: (i) Health Equity
Funds; (ii) Targeted Land Allocation; (iii) Emergency Food Distribution; and (iv) Food
For Work. With the passing of the sub-decree on the ID Poor Targeting system as the
legal targeting system with guidelines that ensure a consistent application of targeting
methodologies, future safety net interventions will correctly target those most in need.
The Sub-Decree is with the Council of Ministers and at the time of evaluation was
awaiting approval. While the Sub-Decree has yet to be passed, the operation has allowed
engaging into a thorough discussion of the pros and cons of targeting.

Indicator 11: Number of villages covered by the Identification of Poor Household
Program. A total of 5,000 villages were covered by the ID Poor Targeting system (an
increase of 2,782 villages from the 2008 baseline) representing 100 percent of the
original target for the result indicator. Reportedly, targeting became an administrative
overhead to the implementing agencies and substantial efforts were required to recruit the
assistance of village chiefs and local notables to select the beneficiaries, based on local



                                            15
information and selection criteria. As the socio-economic situation of households change
over a period of time, a bi-annual data update of the status of poverty on households
nationwide is also being planned.

Pillar III: Strengthen oversight of, and learning from, crisis response action.

Objective 6: Improved governance and effectiveness of Government emergency
response and crisis policy actions (Achieved).

Progress towards this objective has been satisfactory based on the full achievement of
the targets (for details refer to Annex 1.8).

Indicator 12: Quarterly reports available on MEF website on progress of emergency
response actions, including independent monitoring component. Through the practice
of monitoring and reporting, the governance and effectiveness of the Government’s
emergency response was well reported and lessons learned can now inform crisis policy
actions. The quarterly reports are available in the MEF website and all implementing
actions under this objective have been met with the exception of institutionalizing a
monitoring and reporting mechanism for activities under the National Food Security Task
Force. At present, these M&E activities are being carried out under the auspices of
ADB’s Emergency Food Assistance Project and there is a risk of sustainability since the
SBF/MTEF M&E system has not been fully rolled out.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Overall Rating: Satisfactory. The operation remains highly relevant and the
achievement of the PDOs is mostly satisfactory.

The short-term objectives to enhance agricultural productivity and to mitigate the impact
of the food crisis and the medium-term poverty reduction objective to strengthen the
enabling environment for direct support for poor households remain highly relevant in the
Government’s development priorities. The main strategic reason for the DPO was to
support actions which help focus RGC on priority policy and institutional reforms in
agriculture and social protection and develop momentum in those areas.

The DPO was complemented by TA support focusing on the thematic priorities which are
important for advancing the agriculture and social protection agendas in Cambodia.
While some prior actions required for the single tranche release necessitated additional
actions by the Government and were supported by the accompanying TA, the analytical
work, particularly that supported by the AusAID Trust Fund and implemented by the
Bank, also contributed to the preparation of a sound analytical basis for the effective
policy dialogue between the Government and development partners in the future and,
potentially, for the design of follow-up DPO-type operations.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


                                              16
The utilization of the ID Poor Targeting system has been instrumental in ensuring
program beneficiaries were appropriately targeted. The development of the National
Social Protection Strategy for the Poor and Vulnerable was finalized in April 2010 and
endorsed by the RGC in March 2011, and has been highly effective in laying the
groundwork for social safety net protection.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Longer-term capacity and institutional development was the objective of Pillar III
(improved governance and effectiveness of Government emergency response and crisis
policy actions). As noted above, this objective was achieved. Institutionalizing the
Strategic Budget Framework M&E systems in MEF and line ministries will continue to
be an important activity under the Public Financial Management Reform Program.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
N.A.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N.A.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Of the 13 risks and corresponding mitigation actions identified in the PD, three risks were
not mitigated according to plan (for details refer to Annex 1.9). Two of these risks were
related to the strengthening of farmer organizations and the third risk to the security of
land tenure.

Risks related to strengthening of farmer organizations were not mitigated due to delays in
capacity building and training and the revision of the legal framework for farmer
organizations. The latter is awaiting the completion of the study on the Farmer
Organizations (FOs), which is expected to provide specific recommendations for the
amendment of the legal framework. However, MAFF’s proposal to register additional
farmer organizations and build their management capacity was approved by MEF at the
time of evaluation and additional funds will be allocated to support this process. Also, the
Sub-Decree on FWUC has been with the Council of Ministers awaiting approval. The
Sub-Decree will provide an opportunity for capacity building in information
dissemination and technical education as well as increased administrative capacities.

With the majority of risks having been mitigated by at least one risk level (high to
medium or medium to low) the assessment of risk to development outcome is moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance


                                            17
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The combination of the choice of the lending instrument, soundness of background
analysis, appropriateness of design, and adequacy of risks identified justify a satisfactory
rating of Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry. Also, the Bank’s performance
during the design phase was satisfactory in supporting the development of the agriculture
sector in a manner that fully respected Government’s leadership and broader
harmonization and alignment commitments, all within the constraints of a timely
response to a crisis situation. The period required by the Bank to identify and approve
the operation (total of about eight months) was really remarkable given the complexity of
the task.

Choice of lending instrument. A DPO was considered the most appropriate instrument
as it supported the Government’s ongoing efforts to respond to the crisis by supporting
expansion of fiscal space through accelerated ODA disbursements, while at the same
time supporting critical governance-oriented policy and institutional reforms in support of
smallholder agriculture and expansion of social safety nets. In addition, by reflecting
policy areas that were high on the agenda of all stakeholders, it contributed to the
collective efforts of Government, the private sector, NGOs and donors to support poor
households to manage and overcome the impacts of the food and financial crises.
The DPO was designed as a single-tranche operation with a tranche release based on
prior actions carried out by the Government. The operation was designed explicitly to
respond to the food crisis as well as to respond to the Government’s request for the Bank
to re-engage in agriculture policy support. Bank staff effectively facilitated the project
preparation and actively engaged in ongoing policy dialogue.

Soundness of background analysis and appropriateness of DPO design. As discussed in
Section 2.2, given the emergency nature of the DPO, the background analysis and design
of the operation were adequate, in spite of the issues mentioned regarding the
completeness and the quality of design of the results framework. The overall program
design benefitted from the Bank’s previous experience in the development of
programmatic support for the health and education sectors, and extensive global
experience with a wide range of safety net modalities. The DPO was designed to
complement donor actions in the rice and other export-oriented agricultural value chains
and to improve upon the prior actions in the policy context for private sector input dealers,
farmers associations and investors in rice milling and marketing. This operation’s efforts
to harmonize mechanisms targeting the poor, and their adoption across interventions, was
aimed to improve governance and transparency of pro-poor interventions that went
beyond safety nets. In addition, the Bank took a leading role in assisting Government
with the development of the policy matrix for the operation, which was the basis for
common progress reviews.

While a few overly ambitious targets were set for one of the policy pillars relative to the
12-month timeframe of the operation, all three pillars and their objectives were
appropriate and designed to alleviate the risks to past poverty reduction achievements


                                             18
caused by the global food price crisis. The single tranche was disbursed against prior
policy actions taken by the government but implementation actions and targets were
identified for each of the pillar objectives. These actions required additional TA support,
which was provided through Bank and AusAID TA grant financing. Insofar as there were
dependencies between the DPO actions and targets and the TA support, there could have
been better consideration in the design of the risk of delays in mobilizing complementary
TA and measures put in place to mitigate those delays in terms of achieving outcomes.

Working relationship. A notably positive aspect of the Bank’s performance was the
close working relationship during project preparation with other development partners, in
particular with AusAID. The World Bank’s ability to usefully draw on its extensive
experience in designing short-term measures in response to the food crisis and to policy
measures to support agricultural development in the medium-term was much appreciated
by both the Government and development partners. The design of the project took into
account the risks and lessons from other Bank projects, such as the IFC’s Small- and
Medium-Enterprise Development in Selected Agri-Sectors/Value Chain Program, the
Trade Facilitation Project, the Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation (PRGO), the
Second Health Sector Support Program, the Land Allocation for Social and Economic
Development (LASED) and the Cambodia Education Sector Support Project (CESSP).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Given the nature of the DPO, as well as the short implementation period (only less than
eight months from effectiveness to closing), there was no requirement for formal
supervision missions by the Bank. However, the Task Team Leader based in Phnom Penh
provided continuous supervision over the daily operations of the DPO. Liaison with the
Government was continuous and on very good terms.

As per the nature of DPOs, there was no requirement for M&E supervision by the Bank,
given that M&E was under the auspices of the NFSTF. Disbursement and auditing
requirements involved MEF notifying IDA when the funds had been deposited in the
National Bank of Cambodia dedicated Deposit Account and when the funds had been
converted into Riels and credited to the National Treasury Account. Both of these
activities were completed within the thirty day limit.

In addition, the Bank was engaged actively in the supervision of a range of analytical
tasks associated with the policy actions of the DPO funded through related AusAID Trust
Fund. Most notably, the Bank carried out a public expenditure review for the agricultural,
irrigation and rural roads sectors, which provided a useful platform for coordinated donor
support for the implementation of SAW. In addition, the Bank carried out several studies
on the seed and fertilizer sectors, which should provide useful policy guidance for future
dialogue with the Government. The Bank is also in the midst of supervising the study on
farmer organizations, which requires careful consultations, given the wide range of
opinions on this subject by various stake-holders. Finally, the relationships build
between the Bank and MEF, through the preparation of this DPO, led to further



                                            19
collaboration on the preparation of the Government’s Rice Export and Production Policy,
which is closely aligned to the development objectives of the DPO.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Quality at entry and supervision, are all rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

There has been overall strong Government commitment to, and ownership of the DPO as
evidenced by various legal and regulatory decisions and directives and the assumption of
responsibility for the supervision of emergency assistance sub-projects. In addition to
MEF, other Government agencies, notably, MAFF, MOWRAM, Council of Agricultural
Research and Development (CARD) and Ministry of Planning (MoP) were effective
partners in the preparation of the DPO and in the achievement of key policy actions of the
DPO.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Food Crisis Committee, coordinated by MEF, and including, inter alia, MAFF,
MOWRAM, MRD, CARD and MoP was the implementing agency. Individual line
ministries were responsible for the specific prior actions and benchmarks under their
respective jurisdictions.

Overall, the Government’s pro-activity and coordination amongst implementing agencies
and with donors was effective in supporting the emergency assistance implementation
and policy measures. The Government showed effective leadership in addressing the
strategic priorities of agriculture sector development, such as preparation of the Rice
Export and Production Policy (approved in August 2010), which in many aspect builds
on thematic areas and experiences gained during implementation of the DPO. This more
than out-weights implementation delays of some actions, which were mainly caused by
disbursement delays of public funds rather than weakened commitment of the
Government. The Government has continued to pro-actively and effectively address
these actions beyond the duration of this DPO.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
As per the above assessments, both Government and Implementing Agencies’
performances were rated as satisfactory. There has been an overall strong Government
commitment to, and ownership of, the DPO as evidenced by various legal and regulatory
decisions and directives and the assumption of responsibility for the supervision of
emergency assistance sub-projects.


                                             20
6. Lessons Learned

The following important lessons can be drawn from the operation:

   Implementation results need to be identified and expressed as objectively verifiable
    target indicators. While targets need to reflect true aspirations, project design should
    carefully assess whether they are reasonably achievable and verifiable, given the
    country context, institutional constraints, technical feasibility, and implementation
    period. In this DPO several target areas (yield increases, fertilizer labeling, and
    farmer cooperatives registration) could have been more realistically assessed at the
    design stage. In addition, the presentation of the results framework, showing the
    correspondence of objectives with results indicators, could have been improved.

   Related to the above, joint monitoring of the program requires clear indicators
    which are agreed prior to implementation. Specific indicators for monitoring
    progress in each policy area should be defined and agreed during the preparation
    phase to provide a more objective basis for joint monitoring. Of course, the use of a
    series of DPOs phases would provide scope for adjusting indicators with experience
    and build technical capacity for monitoring implementation performance and
    evaluation of results.

   While having a parallel TA is desirable to implement agreed actions, the
    identification of appropriate targets and indicators of the program should be ideally
    based on prior analytical work. Analytical work and related TA planned in parallel
    to implementation of a DPO may not have enough time to provide substantive inputs
    into the implementation of the agreed actions, given the generally short durations of
    DPO-type operations and the need for extensive consultations with stake-holders
    required to reach consensus on certain policy/regulatory actions.

   Different reforms will require different timeframes to move from agreement to
    implementation. Sensitive areas of institutional or policy reform require a sufficient
    time frame for dialogue and agreement, and to gain traction and demonstrate results –
    usually beyond any specific DPO or even program of operations, so several
    incremental steps should be anticipated over a longer period.

   Cross-sector programs require a clear understanding of incentives faced by all
    implementing agencies. In the case of multi-ministerial programs, in addition to the
    coordination capacity of the lead agency, incentive structures need to be understood
    to determine how those who benefit only tangentially from the program will be
    motivated to pursue the reform agenda.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies




                                             21
The Government provided direct input during the preparation of the ICR, and as well as
provided written comments on the draft report. A summary of the comments is provided
in Annex 5.

DPO time period was too limited for Government to procure service providers for
implementation of DPO actions and future DPOs need to be a longer duration than 12
months to enable effective and timely service provision and implementation to achieve
targets.

Government’s efforts on NSPS implementation are currently being supported through the
AusAID/WB Trust Fund regarding i) capacity building of CARD’s Social Protection
Coordination Unit (SPCU) for its coordination role in the development of a social
protection system and ii) technical design and piloting of new social protection
programmatic options under the NSPS.

(b) Cofinanciers.

Written comments were provided by AusAID, who stated that the technical assistance
support towards achievement of the DPO outcomes was instrumental in supporting the
Government’s efforts on social protection, in particular, the development and subsequent
endorsement of the National Social Protection Strategy.

AusAID indicated its interest in continued follow-up support and noted that the farmer
organization study, which is due to be completed in June 2011, may have a
recommendation for a legal framework and will have a poverty impact assessment. In
addition, AusAID is committed to continuing TA support for social protection and has
committed a budget of AU$1.35 million for this TA support.

(c)    Other                  partners                 and                 stakeholders
N.A.




                                          22
Annex 1.1. Original Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators
(as originally presented in the Program Document)

Objectives                                                        Prior Actions / Benchmarks                                                                      Results Outcomes and Indicators


Pillar I: Accelerate Smallholder Rice Supply Response

Objective 1:                                                      Suspension of duties and VAT to reduce price of agricultural inputs                             Fertilizer quality variations decrease from baseline study.
                                                                                                                                                                  Baseline 2009: (to be confirmed by upcoming baseline survey);
Smallholder yields increased from 2.6 to 3.0 MT per hectare       [PA1] Establishing a price and quality oversight mechanism for monitoring fertilizer            Target: reduction from baseline.
through increased access to agricultural knowledge and            prices and quality that includes random sampling for price and quality tests throughout
technology                                                        the supply chain, as well as improved farmer information and labeling in Khmer
                                                                  Expanded, subsidized distribution of seed and fertilizer to selected smallholder farmers and
                                                                  assessments for development of market strengthening approaches

                                                                  Specific budget allocation for irrigation operation and maintenance

Objective 2:                                                      [PA2] Accelerating the registration of farmer organizations based on an additional              Increase in number of registered farmer associations. Baseline:
                                                                  budget allocated for this purpose                                                               Average of 10 per month countrywide; Target: Average of 48
Strengthen role of community based farmer organizations to                                                                                                        per month countrywide.
enable smallholders to access inputs and sell outputs             Establish process for review and revision of legal framework for farmer organization
competitively with reduced margins, manage irrigation                                                                                                             Legal framework revised to harmonize requirements to allow
systems, and have enhanced mechanisms for influencing             Draft Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Communities had been submitted to the Council of          single registration to be recognized amongst multiple
agricultural policy                                               Ministers                                                                                       Government agencies, including MAFF, MOWRAM, MoI,
                                                                                                                                                                  Central Bank as well as private contractors
                                                                  Assign specific budget for irrigation O&M to be utilized in conjunction with FWUCs
                                                                                                                                                                  Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Communities passed by
                                                                                                                                                                  Council of Ministers reflecting stakeholder inputs and
                                                                                                                                                                  facilitating user O&M

Objective 3:                                                      [PA3] Lifting the ban on rice exports through Inter-Ministerial Prakas No. 105.                 Increase in number of investment applications and fixed asset
                                                                  MOC/SM2008 of April 9, 2008, on Authorization of Exports of all Kinds of Dry Season             value, received and approved by CDC for agribusiness,
Increase official rice exports to 2 million tons per year based   Rice Grown and Harvested in Geographical Areas of Prey Veng, Kandal and Takeo                   including rice mills. Baseline 2008: 4 applications received and
on surplus over consumption needs                                 Provinces                                                                                       4 approved with fixed asset value of US$93.8 million; Target:
                                                                                                                                                                  12 applications and 8 approvals for fixed asset value of US$ 200
                                                                  Reduction in administrative fees and tax requirements to encourage agribusiness investments,    million
                                                                  including rice mills
                                                                                                                                                                  Pilot program for expanding private bank financing to rice mills
                                                                  Initiate work to assess mechanisms for increasing financing to rice mills, and development of   and other agribusiness areas agreed amongst banks, RGC and
                                                                  approaches to support expansion of private sector financing                                     donors




                                                                                                                23
Objectives                                                   Prior Actions / Benchmarks                                                                       Results Outcomes and Indicators


Pillar II: Expand safety net support and improve its governance through better targeting

Objective 4:                                                 [PA4] Signing on April 24, 2008 a Memorandum of Understanding with the World Food                Number of poor households receiving emergency assistance
                                                             Program for the provision during three (3) years of two thousand (2000) metric tons per          from Government. Baseline January 2008: no households
Expand support of emergency interventions for poor, food     year of rice for, inter alia, school feeding and food for work program                           received emergency assistance related to the FFF crisis. Target:
insecure households                                                                                                                                           around 300,000 people in food vulnerable areas
                                                             [PA5] Initiating implementation of emergency safety net assistance in two hundred (200)
                                                             communes through a onetime rice distribution (from October 29 to November 5, 2008)
                                                             and a two (2) year food and cash for work program for 2009 and 2010

Objective 5:                                                 Government implements effective targeting of safety net interventions by:                        Number of Government safety net interventions utilizing the
                                                                                                                                                              Identification of Poor Households Targeting System. Baseline
Improve governance and effectiveness of safety net           [PA6] (i) Expanding the roles and responsibilities of the National Food Security Task            2008: health equity funds, targeted land allocation. Target:
intervention through the use of consistent and transparent   Force to ensure and monitor the application of the Identification of Poor Households             emergency food distribution and food for work assistance
targeting                                                    Targeting System in the distribution of food and agriculture materials to poor
                                                             households and of cash and food for work program under the purview of said Task                  Number of villages covered by the Identification of Poor
                                                             Force.                                                                                           Households Program. Baseline 2008: 2,218 villages. Target:
                                                                                                                                                              around 5,000 villages covered directly by the Ministry of
                                                             (ii) Initiating consultations on and submitting to the Council of Ministers a Draft Sub-Decree   Planning
                                                             mandating the use of the procedures for Identification of Poor Households as the national
                                                             targeting system and the use of the ID Poor data for appropriate safety net interventions.

                                                             (iii) Mandating the expansion of the ID Poor targeting system to cover 3000 additional
                                                             villages.

                                                             Government reviews safety net interventions and commits to develop a social protection
                                                             strategy by December 2009


Pillar III: Strengthen oversight of, and learning from, crisis response actions

Objective 6:                                                 [PA7] Establishing a monitoring and public reporting mechanism on the implementation             Quarterly reports available on MEF website on progress of
                                                             of activities under the overview of the National Food Security Task Force; (i) said              emergency response actions, including independent monitoring
Improved governance and effectiveness of Government          monitoring mechanism and the resulting quarterly reports to cover, inter alia,                   component. Baseline: no published reports prior to the FFF
emergency response and crisis policy actions                 distribution of fertilizer and seed to smallholders, registration of farmer organizations,       crisis.
                                                             measures to improve rice exports, safety nets for food vulnerable households, and
                                                             application of the Identification of Poor Households Targeting System; and (ii) said
                                                             quarterly reports to be publically disseminated, including through the Ministry of
                                                             Economy and Finance website and through technical working groups for agriculture,
                                                             water, food security and nutrition.




                                                                                                           24
Annex 1.2. Implementation Progress on Original Prior Actions/Benchmarks and Indicators

Prior Actions / Benchmarks                                             Status on Implementation                   Relevant legal directives
                                                                       Progress

Pillar I: Accelerate Smallholder Rice Supply Response

Suspension of duties and VAT to reduce price of agricultural inputs    Achieved                                   Prakas on Revision of Duty and Placement of Value-Added Tax
                                                                                                                  as the State’s Burden on Certain Imported Goods issued (May
                                                                                                                  2008)
Prior Action 1 [PA1] Establishing a price and quality oversight        Achieved                                   MAFF Circular on Monitoring Mechanism for the Costs of
mechanism for monitoring fertilizer prices and quality that                                                       Agricultural Inputs issued (May 2009)
includes random sampling for price and quality tests                                                              Directive on An Accelerating Registration of Farmer
throughout the supply chain, as well as improved farmer                                                           Organizations and Controlling Quality of Agricultural Inputs
information and labeling in Khmer                                                                                 issued (May 2009)
Expanded, subsidized distribution of seed and fertilizer to selected   Achieved                                   ADB Request for Approval for Procurement of Rice Seeds and
smallholder farmers and assessments for development of market                                                     Fertilizer (March 2009)
strengthening approaches                                                                                          Memorandum of Understanding of Mid-Term Review Mission
                                                                                                                  for Emergency Food Assistance Project issued (February 2009)
Specific budget allocation for irrigation operation and maintenance    Achieved with some delay – Sub-            Final Draft Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Community
                                                                       Decree on the Farmer Water User            prepared (2008) and submitted to Council of Ministers
                                                                       Communities is with the Council of
                                                                       Ministers awaiting endorsement. Once
                                                                       approved irrigation O&M budget can be
                                                                       legally allocated. In the interim
                                                                       MOWRAM is allocating O&M budget
                                                                       on a project-by-project basis.
                                                                       An inter-ministerial committee has been
                                                                       established for O&M with a $7m fund
                                                                       for 2011 and plans for further
                                                                       significant funding once the pilot phase
                                                                       is completed




                                                                                        25
Prior Actions / Benchmarks                                         Status on Implementation                   Relevant legal directives
                                                                   Progress

[PA2] Accelerating the registration of farmer organizations        Not fully achieved – During the years      Directive on Accelerating Registration of Farmer Organizations
based on an additional budget allocated for this purpose           2009 and 2010, MAFF registered 109         and Controlling Quality of Agricultural Inputs issued (May 2009)
                                                                   farmer organizations. Less than the
                                                                   target of 48 per month (equivalent to
                                                                   576 a year).
Establish process for review and revision of legal framework for   Partially achieved with delay – The        Draft Prakas on the Promulgation of the Model Internal Rule of
farmer organization                                                study on farmer organizations is under     Pre-Agriculture Cooperative of the Union of Agricultural
                                                                   way. The study is expected to identify     Cooperative prepared (April 2009)
                                                                   if any revisions of legal framework are    Royal Decree NS/RKT/0701/234 on the Establishment and
                                                                   warranted.                                 Functioning of Agricultural Cooperatives, Union of the
                                                                                                              Agricultural Cooperatives and the Pre-Agricultural Cooperatives
                                                                                                              issued.
                                                                                                              Final Draft Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Community
Draft sub-decree on Farmer Water User Communities had been         Achieved                                   prepared (2008)
submitted to the Council of Ministers

Assign specific budget for irrigation O&M to be utilized in        Achieved with some delay – Sub-            Final Draft Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User Community
conjunction with FWUCs                                             Decree on the Farmer Water User            prepared (2008)
                                                                   Communities is with the Council of         MOWRAM Budget 2009 approved.
                                                                   Ministers awaiting endorsement. Once
                                                                   approved, irrigation O&M budget can
                                                                   be legally allocated. In the interim
                                                                   MOWRAM is allocating O&M budget
                                                                   on a project-by-project basis.
                                                                   An inter-ministerial committee has been
                                                                   established for O&M with a $7m fund
                                                                   for 2011 and plans for further
                                                                   significant funding once the pilot phase
                                                                   is completed




                                                                                    26
Prior Actions / Benchmarks                                            Status on Implementation                Relevant legal directives
                                                                      Progress

[PA3] Lifting the ban on rice exports through Inter-Ministerial       Achieved                                Royal Government of Cambodia Circular on the Measures to
Prakas No. 105. MOC/SM2008 of April 9, 2008, on                                                               Ensure Food Stability, Quality in the Markets and Exports of the
Authorization of Exports of all Kinds of Dry Season Rice                                                      Husked and Un-husked Rice to Foreign Countries issued
Grown and Harvested in Geographical Areas of Prey Veng,                                                       (January 2009)
Kandal and Takeo Provinces                                                                                    Inter-Ministerial Prakas on Authorization of Exports of All
                                                                                                              Kinds of Dry Season Rice Grown and Harvested in Geographical
                                                                                                              Areas of Prey Veng, Kandal and Takeo Provinces issued (April
                                                                                                              2008)
Reduction in administrative fees and tax requirements to encourage    Achieved                                MAFF Letter on Revision of the Annex 1 to the Sub-Decree on
agribusiness investments, including rice mills                                                                the Implementation of the Law on the Amendment to the Law on
                                                                                                              Investment of the Kingdom of Cambodia (February 2009)
Initiate work to assess mechanisms for increasing financing to rice   Achieved
mills, and development of approaches to support expansion of          IDA/IFC Risk Sharing Facility           Bank approval of the Agribusiness Access to Finance Project:
private sector financing                                              supported by Agribusiness Access to     concept and finalization of main design parameters in May 2010;
                                                                      Finance Project to start in 2011.       appraisal in September 2010; and final Bank approval on
                                                                                                              12/16/2010. Effectiveness expected in early CY2011.
                                                                      RGC has allocated $7m to RDB and
                                                                      $18m to Agricultural Development
                                                                      Fund. RGC has also allocated $25m
                                                                      line of credit to RDB in 2011 for re-
                                                                      lending to commercial banks for rice
                                                                      milling sector.

Pillar II: Expand safety net support and improve its governance through better targeting

[PA4] Signing on April 24, 2008 a Memorandum of                       Achieved                                Contract on Domestic Rice (White Rice) Dealing Agreement
Understanding with the World Food Program for the provision                                                   between MEF and Green Trade Company signed (April 2009)
during three (3) years of two thousand (2000) metric tons per                                                 Memorandum of Understanding between the Royal
year of rice for, inter alia, school feeding and food for work                                                Government of Cambodia and the World Food Program for the
program                                                                                                       annual donation of 2,000 MT of white rice issued (April 2008)




                                                                                       27
Prior Actions / Benchmarks                                          Status on Implementation   Relevant legal directives
                                                                    Progress

[PA5] Initiating implementation of emergency safety net             Achieved                   Prakas on Task Delegation of National Food Security Task
assistance in two hundred (200) communes through a onetime                                     Force for Implementation of Emergency Food Assistance Project
rice distribution (from October 29 to November 5, 2008) and a                                  in Charge of Implementation of Smallholder Agriculture and
two (2) year food and cash for work program for 2009 and                                       Social Protection Development Policy Operation issued (May
2010                                                                                           2009)
Government implements effective targeting of safety net
interventions by:
[PA6] (i) Expanding the roles and responsibilities of the           Achieved                   Prakas on Task Delegation of National Food Security Task
National Food Security Task Force to ensure and monitor the                                    Force for Implementation of Emergency Food Assistance Project
application of the Identification of Poor Households Targeting                                 in Charge of Implementation of Smallholder Agriculture and
System in the distribution of food and agriculture materials to                                Social Protection Development Policy Operation issued (May
poor households and of cash and food for work program under                                    2009)
the purview of said Task Force.
(ii) Initiating consultations on and submitting to the Council of   Achieved                   Final Draft Sub-Decree on Identification of Poor Households in
Ministers a Draft Sub-decree mandating the use of the procedures                               Cambodia prepared (May 2009)
for Identification of Poor Households as the national targeting
system and the use of the ID Poor data for appropriate safety net
interventions.
(iii) Mandating the expansion of the ID Poor targeting system to    Achieved                   MoP Letter to MEF on Confirmation of ID Poor Program
cover 3000 additional villages.                                                                Expansion in 2009 issued (April 2009)
Government reviews safety net interventions and commits to          Achieved                   The National Social Protection Strategy for the Poor and
develop a social protection strategy by December 2009.                                         Vulnerable (NSPS) was developed by CARD. It was presented at
                                                                                               the CDCF in June 2010 and was approved by the Council of
                                                                                               Ministers.

Pillar III: Strengthen oversight of, and learning from, crisis response actions




                                                                                  28
Prior Actions / Benchmarks                                        Status on Implementation                    Relevant legal directives
                                                                  Progress

[PA7] Establishing a monitoring and public reporting              Partially achieved                          Prakas on Task Delegation of National Food Security Task
mechanism on the implementation of activities under the           Project quarterly reports developed and     Force for Implementation of Emergency Food Assistance Project
overview of the National Food Security Task Force; (a) said       available. The monitoring and reporting     in Charge of Implementation of Smallholder Agriculture and
monitoring mechanism and the resulting quarterly reports to       mechanism is project-based. It is not yet   Social Protection Development Policy Operation issued (May
cover, inter alia, distribution of fertilizer and seed to         institutional practice and is therefore     2009)
smallholders, registration of farmer organizations, measures to   not sustainable.                            Prakas on Establishment of National Food Security Task Force
improve rice exports, safety nets for food vulnerable                                                         for Implementation of Emergency Food Assistance Project
households, and application of the Identification of Poor                                                     issued (August 2008)
Households Targeting System; and (b) said quarterly reports to
be publically disseminated, including through the Ministry of
Economy and Finance website and through technical working
groups for agriculture, water, food security and nutrition.




                                                                                   29
Annex 1.3. Achievement Status towards Objective 1 in Pillar I

 No.    Objectives, Prior Actions and             Status     Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
        Results
PA1.1   Objective 1                               Achieved   A yield increase of about 45% was recorded by ADB/MEF Emergency Food Assistance Project (EFAP)
        Smallholder yields increased from                    beneficiary farmers due to the May 2009 seed and fertilizer emergency assistance distribution.
        2.6 to 3.0 MT per hectare through                    According to MAFF Annual Statistics, the average yield nationwide increased from 2.6 MT/ha in 2007-08
        increased access to agricultural                     to 2.8 MT/ha in 2009-10 and 2.9 MT/ha in 2010/11. Could be considered on track for reaching the goal of
        knowledge and technology                             3.0 MT/ha by 2013 (as stated in the PD).
PA1.2   Prior Action 1 [PA1]                      Achieved   From the Study titled Rapid Appraisal of Fertilizer Quality in Cambodia (Assisted by TA grant associated with
        Establish a price and quality oversight              this DPO):
        mechanism for monitoring fertilizer                  The Bureau of Agricultural Material Standards (BMS) conducts monitoring of fertilizer quality. Assessment is
        prices and quality                                   conducted visually and lacks legal recourse to prosecute violators of the existing regulations
                                                             The Study recommends that the enforcement of a regulation requiring product certification from an international
                                                             certified quality control organization for imports would assist in eliminating fertilizer quality fraud
                                                             As an aspect of the emergency assistance response of this DPO, 4867.2 tons of Urea and DAP fertilizer was
                                                             provided to a total of 74,457 farmers (wet and dry season) in May and November 2009 and May 2010 at a 50%
                                                             discount. Price and quality were monitored by EFAP. Payment for fertilizer is collected after harvest - 80%
                                                             collected at the time of evaluation
PA1.3   Fertilizer packaging has improved         Partly     Assisted by TA grant. Recommendation in the Rapid Appraisal of Fertilizer Quality in Cambodia study was to
        farmer information and labeling in        achieved   incorporate the principles of:
        Khmer                                                         Malpractice such as adulteration, mislabeling and short weights
                                                                      Unsubstantiated claims of product benefits
                                                                      Environmental hazards
                                                                      Public health hazards.
                                                                      Introduce “truth in labeling” in order to protect farmers and market participants including importers,
                                                                       distributors, wholesalers, retails and the public;
                                                                      fertilizer regulations should include definitions and specifications of label requirements including
                                                                       Khmer language.
PA1.4   Suspension of duties and VAT to           Achieved   Achieved through the implementation of the Prakas on Revision of Duty and Placement of Value-Added Tax as
        reduce price of agricultural inputs                  the State’s Burden on Certain Imported Goods (May 2008)
PA1.5   Expanded, subsidized distribution of      Achieved   Refer to PA1.3 above for fertilizer subsidies and distribution
        seed and fertilizer to selected                      1,446 tons of free seed was distributed to a total of 74,457 farmers (wet and dry season) in May and November
        smallholder farmers                                  2009 and May 2010. Distribution conducted and monitored by the ADB/MEF Emergency Food Assistance
                                                             Project (EFAP)




                                                                                  30
PA1.6   Assessments for development of         Achieved    Fertilizer
        market strengthening approaches for                TA component. Recommendation in the Study titled Rapid Appraisal of Fertilizer Quality in Cambodia for some
        seed and fertilizer for smallholder                market strengthening approaches (a total of eight recommendations – two presented here as an example):
        farmers
                                                                    Amend the fertilizer import licensing regulations to simplify and speed up the licensing process and
                                                                     remove import quotas for firms.
                                                                    Importers should be required to furnish details of all fertilizer imports on a quarterly basis to the DAL
                                                                     and the MAFF and should publish quarterly summaries of fertilizer imports by product grouping to
                                                                     provide total market information.
                                                           As well as incorporating the principles of:
                                                                    Malpractices such as adulteration, mislabeling and short weights
                                                                    Unsubstantiated claims of product benefits
                                                                    Environmental hazards
                                                                    Public health hazards.
                                                           Introduce “truth in labeling” in order to protect farmers and market participants including importers, distributors,
                                                           wholesalers, retails and the public
                                                           And recommended regulations to be developed, including (a few presented here from a total of 11):
                                                                    Firm and product registration procedures and officials
                                                                    Definitions of adulterated fertilizer product
                                                                    Inspection authority

                                                           Seed
                                                           TA component. Recommendation in the Study titled Cambodia: Seed Sector Overview for some market
                                                           strengthening approaches ( a total of 8 recommendations – four presented here as an example:
                                                                   Support to CARDI seed production and seed research programs
                                                                   Establishment of a seed testing laboratory
                                                                   Establishment of community-based rice seed production groups
                                                           The above recommendations are supposed to be addressed through the proposed IDA/IFAD funded Community-
                                                           Based Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project.
PA1.7   Specific budget allocation for         Achieved    Budget allocation is dependent on passing the Sub-Decree on FWUCs. Accordingly, O&M budget for irrigation
        irrigation operation and maintenance   (project-   schemes is minimally accounted for in the Government budget and is supplemented by projects, such as this
                                               based)      DPO
                                                           US$ 6 million approved (funds disbursed) to train FWUCs to manage and maintain 15 new and rehabilitated
                                                           irrigation schemes in 5 provinces
                                                           Inter-ministerial committee established to coordinate O&M, budget of $7m for 2011.




                                                                                 31
PA1.8   Fertilizer quality variations decrease   Achieved   No comprehensive baseline has been carried out. Under the TA component, a study carried out in May 2010
        from baseline                                       (Rapid Appraisal of Fertilizer Quality in Cambodia) took 103 samples and tested them for nutrient content. The
                                                            results of this study should serve as a baseline for future monitoring. It is difficult to come up with a benchmark
                                                            indicator for fertilizer quality as each blend is different and there are different amounts of N,P,K and S specified.
                                                            To make one specific comparison of 15-15-15 blend, in November 2007 a study undertaken for the World Bank
                                                            showed the variance in Nitrogen averaged 21.22%, while the variance in the 2010 baseline was 7.45%. While
                                                            there are no clear results for samples tested in 2010, it is clear that the variability in nutrient content is
                                                            decreasing. Most of the variability in content can be traced back to poor manufacturing processes, mainly in
                                                            Vietnam, rather than adulteration within the Cambodian supply chain.




                                                                                  32
Annex 1.4. Achievement Status towards Objective 2 in Pillar I

 No.    Objectives, Prior Actions and Results         Status         Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
PA2.1   Objective 2                                   Partially      Sub-Decree on Farmer Organizations has not yet been approved, hence the capacity building of farmer
        Strengthen the role of community based        achieved       organizations is not institutionalized and is largely reliant on donor projects
        Farmer Organizations to enable                (project-      US$ 1 million approved to register and build management and technical capacity of 40 farmer
        smallholders to access inputs and sell        based)         organizations under this DPO. At the time of the evaluation, MAFF is in the process of gaining access to
        outputs competitively with reduced                           the funds.
        margins
PA2.2   [PA2]                                         Not Fully      Directive on Accelerating Registration of Farmer Organizations and Controlling Quality of
        Accelerate registration of farmer             Achieved       Agricultural Inputs issued (May 2009)
        organizations based on an additional                         According to the Agriculture, Irrigation and Rural Roads Public Expenditure Review (June 2010),
        budget allocated for this purpose                            there was an overall increase of 5% budget support for irrigation O&M from 2007 to 2009. While
                                                                     this is a positive sign, further budget support for O&M can be improved by accelerating efforts to
                                                                     pass the sub-decree on FWUCs. The approval of the FWUC Sub-Decree will improve progress
                                                                     towards allocating O&M budget support planned and budgeted for and managed by FWUCs
                                                                     through Actions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 and 12 specifically of MOWRAM’s Action Plan on Water
                                                                     Resources and Meteorology Management and Development to Contribute to the Implementation of
                                                                     the RGC’s Rectangular Strategy Phase 2 (2009-2013)
                                                                     US$ 1 million approved to register and build capacity of 40 farmer organizations under this DPO.
                                                                     At the time of the evaluation, MAFF are in the process of gaining access to the funds
PA2.3   Establish process for review and revision     Partially      TA component. The study on Farmer Organization is under implementation. The study may recommend
        of legal framework for farmer organization    achieved       improvements in the existing legal framework. Final report is expected in April 2011.
PA2.4   Farmer organizations have a mechanism         Partially      Sub-Decree on Farmer Organizations has been delayed, hence an institutional mechanism for farmer
        for influencing agricultural policy           achieved       organizations to influence agricultural policy is largely reliant on donor projects. Such a mechanism will
                                                      (project-      be implemented in the upcoming MAFF project (refer PA2.2 above)
                                                      based)
PA2.5   Sub-Decree on Farmer Water User               Not Achieved   Draft Sub-Decree on FWUCs is with the Council of Ministers awaiting approval
        Communities passed by Council of
        Ministers reflecting stakeholder inputs and
        facilitating user O&M




                                                                                   33
 No.    Objectives, Prior Actions and Results          Status         Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
PA2.6   Farmer organizations to manage irrigation      Achieved       Legal mandate is dependent on passing the Sub-Decree on FWUCs. Accordingly, management of
        schemes                                        (project-      irrigation schemes has not been institutionalized yet and it depends on specific projects.
                                                       based)         A US$ 6 million allocation approved (funds disbursed in August 2010) to train FWUCs to manage and
                                                                      maintain 15 new and rehabilitated irrigation schemes in 5 provinces. MOWRAM is the implementing
                                                                      agency and in January 2011, MOWRAM will announce an invitation to bid for technical service
                                                                      provision. A feasibility study for the selection of irrigation sites and a selection of FWUCs is due for
                                                                      completion in Kandal, Kampong Speu, Kampong Chhnang, Takeo and Kampot. Project implementation
                                                                      is expected to being later in 2011.
PA2.7   Specific budget for irrigation O&M to be       Achieved       Budget allocation is dependent on the passing of the Sub-Decree on FWUCs. Accordingly, O&M budget
        utilized in conjunction with FWUCs             (project-      for irrigation schemes is minimally accounted for in the Government budget and is supplemented by
                                                       based)         projects, such as this DPO
                                                                      US$ 6 million approved (funds disbursed) to train FWUCs to manage and maintain 15 new and
                                                                      rehabilitated irrigation schemes in 5 provinces. A key component is to form and train FWUCs to manage
                                                                      irrigation infrastructure within a project budget of US$ 100,000. FWUCs will be supported by
                                                                      Government to gradually take ownership of the schemes
PA2.8   Average of 48 farmer associations              Not fully      As recorded by the Agricultural Cooperative office (DAE/MAFF), a total of 109 farmer organizations
        registered per month countrywide               Achieved       were registered by MAFF in 24 provinces of Cambodia during 2009-2010.
PA2.9   Legal framework revised to harmonize           Not achieved   TA component. The study on Farmer Organization under way. The study may recommend
        requirements to allow single registration to                  improvements in the existing legal framework, including the review of options for establishing single
        be recognized amongst multiple                                registration of FOs. Final report is expected in April 2011.
        Government agencies                                           Associated legal documents
                                                                      Directive on An Accelerating Registration of Farmer Organizations and Controlling Quality of
                                                                      Agricultural Inputs issued (May 2009)
                                                                      Draft Prakas on the Promulgation of the Model Internal Rule of Pre-Agriculture Cooperative of the
                                                                      Union of Agricultural Cooperative prepared (April 2009)
                                                                      Royal Decree NS/RKT/0701/234 on the Establishment and Functioning of Agricultural Cooperatives,
                                                                      Union of the Agricultural Cooperatives and the Pre-Agricultural Cooperatives issued.




                                                                                    34
Annex 1.5. Achievement Status towards Objective 3 in Pillar I

        Objectives, Prior Actions and                 Status     Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
 No.
        Indicators
PA3.1   Objective 3                                   Achieved   Cambodia already exports over 2 million tons of paddy unofficially through Vietnam and Thailand,
        Increase official rice exports to 2 million              with an official export of milled rice of 10,000 tons in 2009. The Policy Document on the Promotion of
        tons per year based on surplus over                      Paddy Rice Production and Export of Milled Rice sets a target of 1 million tons of milled rice export by
        consumption needs                                        2015.

PA3.2   [PA3]                                         Achieved   Achieved with the issuing of the Inter-Ministerial Prakas on Authorization of Exports of All Kinds of Dry
        Lift the ban on rice exports through Inter-              Season Rice Grown and Harvested in Geographical Areas of Prey Veng, Kandal and Takeo Provinces (April
        Ministerial Prakas No. 105,                              2008)
        MOC/SM2008 of April 9, 2008
PA3.3   Reduction in administrative fees and tax      Achieved   Achieved through the implementation of the Prakas on Revision of Duty and Placement of Value-Added
        requirements to encourage agribusiness                   Tax as the State’s Burden on Certain Imported Goods (May 2008)
        investments, including rice mills
                                                                 The Policy Document on the Promotion of Paddy Rice Production and Export of Milled Rice was approved
                                                                 in August 2010. The policy’s seven-point plan includes the following measures:
                                                                          Increase rice production
                                                                          Develop strategies to build irrigation systems
                                                                          Provide technical services
                                                                          Land reform measures
                                                                          Financing
                                                                          Marketing
                                                                          Develop farming communities and improve institutions (capacity building).
                                                                 The Rice Export policy will encourage all commercial banks to provide loans to be used for expanding
                                                                 paddy production and rice exports
                                                                 TA component. Rural Finance Guarantee Pilot Study not applicable any more since IDA/IFC RSF is already
                                                                 established (i.e. a form of partial credit guarantee). A new thematic area for the study is being identified.
PA3.4   Initiate work to assess mechanisms for        Achieved   Cambodia Agribusiness Access to Finance Project. The main instrument under the project is Risk Sharing
        increasing financing to rice mills and                   Facility which will partially guarantee a portfolio of newly-originated loans to agribusinesses. The RSF
        development of approaches to support                     structure would reimburse the participating banks for a fixed percentage (50 percent) of incurred losses,
        expansion of private sector financing                    which is expected to provide them with a credit protection needed to mitigate the perceived high risk of
                                                                 agribusiness SME lending. The vast majority of agribusiness SMEs in Cambodia is rice mills.
                                                                 The main design parameters of the IDA/IFC Risk-Sharing Facility were completed in May 2010. Appraisal
                                                                 was carried out in September 2010. The Board approval is in December 2010 and effectiveness in early
                                                                 2011. The related TA component on Rural Finance Guarantee Pilot Study not relevant any more.




                                                                                  35
        Objectives, Prior Actions and              Status     Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
 No.
        Indicators
PA3.5   12 investment applications with fixed      Achieved   A total of 28 applications were approved in 2009 with fixed assets value of about USD 637 million, and 27
        asset value of US$ 200 million for                    were approved in 2010 with a total fixed assets value of USD 599 million.
        agribusiness, including rice mills
PA3.6   Pilot program for expanding private bank   Achieved   Cambodia Agribusiness Access to Finance Project
        financing to rice mills and other                     The main design parameters of the IDA/IFC Risk-Sharing Facility were completed in May 2010. Appraisal
        agribusiness areas agreed amongst banks,              was carried out in September 2010 and Board approved it on December 16, 2010. Effectiveness is expected
        RGC and donors                                        in early CY2011.




                                                                               36
Annex 1.6. Achievement Status towards Objective 4 in Pillar II

 No.    Objectives, Prior Actions and Indicators              Status     Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
PA4.1   Objective 4                                           Achieved   Government was effective in delivering emergency interventions in the face of the national
        Expand support of emergency interventions for                    food crisis. Government was able to coordinate implementation efforts among implementing
        poor, food insecure households                                   agencies and donor projects, such as the FAO Food Facility project and the ADB EFAP
                                                                         project.
                                                                         The ID Poor Targeting system, where it was present in the target areas of the project, was
                                                                         utilized effectively in targeting the most food insecure households.
PA4.2   [PA4]                                                 Achieved   The grant agreement between the RGC and WFP was finalized and signed on 13 November 2009
        Signing on April 24, 2008, a Memorandum of                       School Feeding Program (SFP)
        Understanding with the WFP for the provision                     The School Feeding Program (SFP) was implemented in four out of seven target provinces (Siem
        during three years of 2,000 MT per year of rice for              Reap, Oddor Meanchey, Kampong Thom and Kampong Chhnang)
        school feeding and food for work program
                                                                         On site hot breakfasts were provided to 65,861 primary school students out of which 31,791 were
                                                                         girls.
                                                                         A total of 803 tons of food commodities including rice, canned fish, oil, and salt were distributed to
                                                                         255 primary schools.
                                                                         Food For Work (FFW)
                                                                         FFW was implemented in four out of seven target provinces (Siem Reap, Oddor Meanchey,
                                                                         Kampong Thom and Kampong Chhnang) – 24 districts and 44 communes
                                                                         42 projects have been completed in which 4,900 households participated in rehabilitating 55.56 Km
                                                                         rural roads
                                                                         892 tons of rice were distributed to the 4,900 households participating in FFW under the EFAP.




                                                                                 37
 No.    Objectives, Prior Actions and Indicators             Status     Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
PA4.3   [PA5]                                                Achieved   Rice distribution
        Initiating implementation of emergency safety net               20% of the poorest villagers (68,000 vulnerable households or about 343,000 people) were
        assistance in 200 communes through a onetime rice               identified as the target beneficiary group in 200 communes, utilizing the ID Poor Targeting system
        distribution and a two year food and cash for work              where it was implemented.
        program for 2009 and 2010                                       12,000 tons of rice was distributed to the 343,000 beneficiaries
                                                                        Rice distribution took place during 29-30 October and 4-5 November 2009
                                                                        FFW – refer PA4.2 above
                                                                        Cash For Work (CFW)
                                                                        11 pilot CFW projects were implemented (six in Kampong Chhnang and five in Banteay
                                                                        Meanchey)
                                                                        As a combined result of the 11 projects, approximately 8.5 Km of rural road was successfully
                                                                        rehabilitated
                                                                        There were 2,824 participants of CFW. They earned an average of US$ 85 each
                                                                        Under the CFW expansion phase, 34 projects have been completed and 206 projects were
                                                                        implemented.
                                                                        The 34 completed projects engaged 2,790 households and 30.33 Km of rural road were
                                                                        rehabilitated under the EFAP.
PA4.4   300,000 people in food vulnerable areas receive      Achieved   20% of the poorest villagers (68,000 vulnerable households or 342,853 people) were identified as
        emergency assistance                                            the target beneficiary group in 200 communes, utilizing the ID Poor Targeting system where it was
                                                                        implemented
                                                                        12,000 tons of rice was distributed to the beneficiaries (around 343,000 people).
                                                                        Rice distribution took place during 29-30 October and 4-5 November 2009.




                                                                                38
Annex 1.7. Achievement Status towards Objective 5 in Pillar II

 No.    Objectives, Prior Actions and Indicators             Status     Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
PA5.1   Objective 5                                          Achieved   The National Food Security Task force and the implementing agencies of safety net
        Improve governance and effectiveness of                         interventions were able to use the ID Poor Targeting system to deliver safety net measures (free
        safety net intervention through the use of                      rice, seed, discounted fertilizer) to those most in need. In target areas where the ID Poor
        consistent and transparent targeting                            Targeting system is yet to be implemented, targeting became an administrative overhead to the
                                                                        implementing agencies and effort was required to recruit the assistance of village chiefs and
                                                                        local notables to select the beneficiaries based on local information and an agreed selection
                                                                        criteria. It was reported that often in these areas, some people did miss out on emergency
                                                                        assistance.
                                                                        With the passing of the Sub-Decree on the ID Poor Targeting system as the legal targeting
                                                                        system with guidelines included that ensure a consistent application of targeting methodologies,
                                                                        future safety net interventions will correctly target those most in need. The sub-decree is with
                                                                        the Council of Ministers awaiting approval. While the Sub-Decree has yet to be passed, the
                                                                        operation has lead into a thorough discussion of the pros and cons of targeting, and
                                                                        Government has agreed to partner with the World Bank and AusAID to implement a thorough
                                                                        review of impact and implementation procedures of the ID Poor based on a household survey.
                                                                        As the socio-economic situation of households change over a period of time, it is planned for a
                                                                        bi-annual data update of the status of poverty on households nationwide. Implementation of
                                                                        such an effort will be staggered over time.
PA5.2   [PA6]                                                Achieved   The National Food Security Task force and the implementing agencies of safety net interventions
        Expand the roles and responsibilities of the                    were able to use the ID Poor Targeting system to deliver safety net measures (free rice, seed,
        National Food Security Task Force to ensure and                 discounted fertilizer) to those most in need.
        monitor the application of the Identification of                With the passing of the Sub-Decree on the ID Poor Targeting system as the legal targeting system
        Poor Households Targeting system in the                         with guidelines included that ensure a consistent application of targeting methodologies, future safety
        distribution of food and agriculture materials to               net interventions will correctly target those most in need. The Sub-Decree is with the Council of
        poor households and of cash and food for work                   Ministers awaiting approval.
        program
PA5.3   Initiate consultations and submit to the Council     Achieved   The Final Draft Sub-Decree on Identification of Poor Households in Cambodia was submitted to the
        of Ministers a draft Sub-Decree mandating the                   Council of Ministers in May 2009
        use of the procedures for ID Poor Households as                 While the Sub-Decree is yet to be passed, the ID Poor Targeting system is being utilized in safety net
        the national targeting system and the use of ID                 interventions and was utilized for beneficiary targeting under the emergency assistance component of
        Poor data for appropriate safety net interventions              this DPO.
PA5.4   Mandate the expansion of the ID Poor Targeting       Achieved   Mandate: MoP Letter to MEF on Confirmation of ID Poor Program Expansion in 2009 (April 2009)
        system to cover 3,000 additional villages, making               Result: A total of 5,000 villages covered by the ID Poor Targeting system – an increase of 2,782
        a total of 5,000 villages covered by the Ministry




                                                                                  39
 No.    Objectives, Prior Actions and Indicators          Status     Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
        of Planning                                                  villages from the 2008 baseline.
PA5.5   Government reviews safety net interventions and   Achieved   The National Social Protection Strategy for the Poor and Vulnerable (NSPS) was finalized in April
        commits to develop a social protection strategy              2010
        by December 2009                                             Pillars under the Strategy are:
                                                                              The poor and vulnerable receive support in situations of emergency and crisis
                                                                              Poor and vulnerable children and mothers benefit from social safety nets to reduce poverty
                                                                               and food insecurity and enhance the development of human capital
                                                                              The working-age poor and vulnerable benefit from work opportunities to secure income,
                                                                               food and livelihoods, while contributing to the creation of sustainable physical and social
                                                                               infrastructure assets
                                                                              The poor and vulnerable have effective access to affordable quality health care and
                                                                               financial protection in case of illness
                                                                              Special vulnerable groups receive income, in-kind and psycho-social support and adequate
                                                                               social care
                                                                     The draft NSPS was presented in the CDCF in June 2010 and received high-level backing from
                                                                     government and development partners. It has been approved in a Full Cabinet Meeting chaired by
                                                                     Samdech Prime Minister.
                                                                     Following the development of the NSPS, a 2010-2011 Work Plan and Terms of Reference for the
                                                                     Enabling Environment for Coordination on NSPS was developed (August 2010)
                                                                     The Work Plan proposes the following outputs, of which the first 2 have already been accomplished:
                                                                         1. Establishment of CARD-Social Protection Coordination Unit (SPCU)
                                                                         2. Obtain approval of NSPS from the Council of Ministers
                                                                         3. Publish NSPS and related documents
                                                                         4. Disseminate NSPS at the national and sub-national levels
                                                                         5. Build capacity of SPCU to implement the social protection program
                                                                     Under the NSPS the intention is to expand existing social safety net interventions such as school
                                                                     feeding, school scholarship and maternal health care projects, in order to reach more beneficiaries, as
                                                                     well as to pilot cash transfer and a nation-wide public works program.




                                                                               40
Annex 1.8. Achievement Status towards Objective 6 in Pillar III

 No.    Objectives, Prior Actions and Indicators           Status      Contributing DPO Action(s) / Outcome(s)
PA6.1   Objective 6                                        Achieved    Through the practice of monitoring and reporting, the governance and effectiveness of the
        Improved governance and effectiveness of                       Government’s emergency response were well reported and lessons learned can inform crisis
        Government emergency response and crisis                       policy actions
        policy actions
PA6.2   [PA7]                                              Achieved    A monitoring and public reporting mechanism was to be established under the overview of the National
        Establish a monitoring and public reporting        (project-   Food Security Task Force (NFSTF). Quarterly reports that reported on the progress of the emergency
        mechanism on the implementation of activities      based)      response actions were to be made available on the MEF website and disseminated to technical working
        under the overview of the National Food                        groups. Whilst this occurred it did so under a project framework rather than mechanized under an
        Security Task Force                                            institutionalized M&E framework under the aegis of the NFSTF, resulting in an unsustainable M&E
                                                                       practice
PA6.3   Quarterly reports to cover, inter alia,            Partially   MEF Quarterly Reports have been generated under the ADB’s Emergency Food Assistance Project and
        distribution of fertilizer and seed to             Achieved    activities specifically relate to actions undertaken by that project rather than overall reporting of M&E
        smallholders, registration of farmer                           activities.
        organizations, measures to improve rice                        Quarterly reports cover:
        exports, safety nets for food vulnerable                                  Distribution of fertilizer and seed to smallholders
        households, and application of the ID Poor                                Safety net operations for the food vulnerable households
        Households Targeting system
                                                                                  ID Poor Targeting system utilized in these activities.
                                                                       The reports did not cover:
                                                                                the progress of the registration of farmer organizations as the TA component – the Farmer
                                                                                 Organization Study resulting in a recommended harmonized legal framework for a farmer
                                                                                 organization single registration procedure amongst multiple Government agencies
                                                                                The measures undertaken to improve rice exports as the Policy Document on the Promotion
                                                                                 of Paddy Rice Production and Export of Milled Rice were approved in August 2010.
PA6.4   Quarterly reports to be publically disseminated,   Achieved    Quarterly reports are posted on the ADB EFAP website
        including through the MEF website and through                  http://www.efap.org.kh/page2.php?key1=publication
        technical working groups for agriculture and                   Technical working groups for agriculture and water, food security and nutrition have access to the
        water, food security and nutrition                             quarterly reports




                                                                                   41
Annex 1.9. Risks to Development Outcome
Risk #       Risk identified                 Risk score   Risk mitigation action                                           Risk to development outcome                                                              Risk score
                                             @ PO                                                                                                                                                                   @ ICR

1. Governance risks

1.1          Significant manipulation        High         Farmer Associations, supported by NGOs, to provide               Farmer organization legal framework and poverty impact study ongoing under AusAID        Medium
             and mistargeting or                          oversight and technical support of distribution activities       TA
             diversion of food and cash                   undertaken by civil society organizations                        Pilot safety net projects undertaken:
             support or agricultural                      Potential pilot activities in safety nets and input support      1. Cash for Work – 11 projects in 2 provinces
             inputs assistance                            will integrate additional measures                               2. Scholarship program for primary and secondary schools – 2 provinces, 10,490
                                                                                                                                eligible students (5,526 female)
                                                                                                                           3. Smallholder wet season seed and fertilizer distribution and training – 18,087
                                                                                                                                households in 5 provinces
                                                                                                                           4. Smallholder dry season seed and fertilizer distribution and training – 5,787
                                                                                                                                households in 5 provinces

1.2          Increased public oversight      Medium to    Initial sampling and testing of fertilizer will be carried out   Rapid Appraisal of Fertilizer Quality in Cambodia study completed by IFDC in July        Low
             roles for fertilizer can lead   High         with direct support from the International Centre for Soil       2010. A number of recommendations are presented for the adaption of existing law and
             to increased rent-seeking                    Fertility and Agricultural Development (IFDC) – working          regulations as well as the development of additional law and regulations designed to
                                                          closely with Government staff in the field                       protect farmers and market participants
                                                          IFDC develop recommendations for long term
                                                          involvement of public roles and incentives and to
                                                          strengthen the capacity of Farmer Associations to perform
                                                          field tests of quality

1.3          Weak incentives and             Medium to    Identification of improvement options of incentive               The Government MBPI incentive scheme is being replaced by a Priority Operating Cost      Low
             administrative controls in      High         systems, strengthening results based public expenditure          (POC) scheme. Guidelines under development. POC scheme still under consideration
             relevant ministries,                         planning, execution and monitoring assessment,                   Agriculture, Irrigation and Rural Roads Public Expenditure Review (PER) completed in
             combined with                                development of a demand driven approach to agricultural          September 2010 contains recommendations for Expenditure Priorities to Improve the
             uncertainties regarding                      and social protection service delivery using emerging            Effectiveness and Efficiency of Public Spending and Public Expenditure Planning and
             implementation of de-                        decentralized and administrative structures                      Management
             centralization
                                                                                                                           The Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) is a three-year rolling system is
                                                                                                                           active in predicting and guiding resource flows to priority sectors within government.
                                                                                                                           However, at the departmental level, there is still a lack of systems for departmental
                                                                                                                           budget planning and financing reporting
                                                                                                                           The 10-year roadmap (2009-19) for Decentralization and Deconcentration provides the
                                                                                                                           legal and administrative framework for the implementation of the National Social
                                                                                                                           Protection Strategy for the Poor and Vulnerable and the Strategy for Agriculture and
                                                                                                                           Water

1.4          Difficulties in defining        Medium       Reach consensus on the legitimate roles of Farmer                Farmer organization legal framework and poverty impact study ongoing under AusAID        Medium
             appropriate private, public                  Associations beyond the strictly technical to include            TA
             and broader civil society                    commercial and advocacy roles as part of the review of           Final Draft Sub-Decree on Contract Farming
             roles                                        the legal framework for Farmer Associations

2. Capacity risks




                                                                                                                42
Risk #       Risk identified               Risk score   Risk mitigation action                                        Risk to development outcome                                                               Risk score
                                           @ PO                                                                                                                                                                 @ ICR

2.1          Weak institutional            Medium       Provide significant TA to Government for all aspects of       The Government has approved the NSPS and has fixed the timeframe for its                  Low
             capacity to develop an                     development of the social protection strategy and piloting    implementation until 2015. The adoption of the Strategy is expected to be followed by
             ambitious social protection                and evaluation activities                                     greater alignment from line ministries and other relevant Government agencies around
             strategy and implement                                                                                   implementation activities and increasing financing of new and existing programmatic
                                                        Provide a specific investment loan to support more            options, Development partners will continue to support planning and financing of social
             social protection                          structured capacity development within Government, and
             interventions                                                                                            protection under the NSPS. A World Bank / AusAID Trust Fund is established to
                                                        future pilots and interventions to use best practice          advance capacity development and social protection activities within Government and in
                                                        implementation examples                                       alignment with the NPSPV
2.2          Weak farmer associations      Medium       Assessment of Farmer Association capacities and               The study on FOs impact on food security and farm livelihoods ongoing. If relevant, the   Medium
             unable to perform                          capacity support institutions by an international farmer      study may recommend changes in existing legal framework.
             technical support and                      support organization which will recommend private and         Sub-decree on FWUC submitted to Council of Ministers for approval
             management                                 public support options for donor support as well as
             responsibilities                           medium to long term self-financing plan for sustainability

2.3          Inter-ministerial             Medium       MEF to encourage ministries to address inter-ministerial      An Inter-Ministerial Social Protection Coordination Unit has been established. The        Low
             coordination remains a                     concerns related to the achievement of Rectangular            Coordination Unit is preparing a funding proposal to be presented to MEF.
             major challenge                            Strategy objectives under the auspice of an inter-
                                                        ministerial focal point that works through the TWGFSN
                                                        and working groups for the purposes of advancing
                                                        fertilizer regulation and review of the legal framework for
                                                        Farmer Associations

3. Policy risks

3.1          Sustainability of reform      Medium       Potential implementation of cash for training and             A 5-year roadmap to implement the National Protection Strategy for the Poor and           Low
             momentum                                   Conditional Cash Transfer safety net interventions            Vulnerable is near completion. Two implementing pillars of the roadmap concern safety
                                                        Development Partners through TWGFSN are putting               net interventions - Expansion of community-based programs i.e. cash for work and a
                                                        continued pressure on Government to maintain an active        Community-based program study
                                                        dialogue on safety nets                                       In collaboration with WFP, MEF implementing Food for Work (FFW) program in 4
                                                                                                                      provinces – 87 projects are completed
                                                                                                                      MEF implementing Cash for Work (CFW) program in 7 provinces – 206 projects are
                                                                                                                      under implementation and 34 projects are completed
                                                                                                                      Multi-donor Trust Fund established to support capacity development (2010-12) within
                                                                                                                      Government and implementation of the roadmap

3.2          Land tenure insecurities      Medium       The Bank and other donors have prioritized actions to         No change to risk level. Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation (PRGO) program was        Medium
             undermine incentives for                   address land tenure insecurities through the overall          cancelled.
             smallholders to invest in                  Government-donor dialogue with specific measures in the
             increased productivity                     PRGO program for enforcement of indigenous land rights
                                                        and procedures to address social issues surround
                                                        economic land concessions




                                                                                                             43
Risk #     Risk identified               Risk score   Risk mitigation action                                  Risk to development outcome                                                              Risk score
                                         @ PO                                                                                                                                                          @ ICR

3.3        Lags in achieving broader     Medium       Expand the export agenda to include rice and advance    The Agribusiness Access to Finance Project was approved by the Bank on December 16,      Low
           investment climate                         measures for broader growth and poverty reduction, as   2010 and will become effective in early CY2011.
           reforms                                    well as significant involvement of important domestic   The Rice Export Policy was launched in August 2010 with an aim to promote
                                                      interests in export oriented rice milling               agricultural development and broaden and strengthen the foundation of economic growth
                                                                                                              while accelerating poverty reduction and improving livelihoods
                                                                                                              A trade facilitation project and enabling environment program under IFC aims to reduce
                                                                                                              private sector investment constraints

4. Macroeconomic risks

4.1        Slowdown of growth                                                                                 GDP Growth was lower in 2009 but picked up again in 2010. The Global Financial
           caused by spillovers from                                                                          Crisis has had minimal impact on Cambodian agricultural productivity, although
           the global financial crisis                                                                        significant safety net issues were identified and mitigated.

4.2        Higher inflation                                                                                   Inflation was higher in 2008-2009, but has declined in 2010.s

4.3        Possible strain on the                                                                             There has been no evidence of a banking collapse in Cambodia
           banking sector as the                                                                              ADB support for Financial Sector Program Cluster III (2010-2011)
           economy slows down




                                                                                                       44
Annex 2. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
                          Senior Rural Development
Mudita Chamroeun                                              EASTS
                          Specialist/Task Team Leader
Jamele Rigolini           Senior Economist                    LCRCE
Stephane Guimbert         Senior Economist                    EASPR
Steven Schonberger        Lead Operations Officer
Munichan Kung             Rural Development Officer           EASTS
Thomas Michael Slayton    Consultant                          EASPR
Lucilla Maria Bruni       Consultant                          EASHS
Linh Hoang Vu             Consultant
Amara Khiev               Program Assistant                   EACSF

Supervision/ICR
                          Senior Rural Development
Mudita Chamroeun                                              EASTS ICR Team Leader
                          Specialist/Task Team Leader
Paavo Eliste              Senior Economist                    EASTS
Steven Schonberger        Lead Operations Officer
Munichan Kung             Rural Development Officer           EASTS
Thomas Michael Slayton    Consultant                          EASPR
Timothy Dennis Purcell    Consultant                                  ICR Author
Guzman P. Garcia-Rivero   Consultant                                  ICR Consultant
Peng Seng Tan             Program Assistant                   EACSF

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                  USD Thousands
              Stage
                                      No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
 FY09                                         57.29                     236.634


                          Total:                      57.29                   239.634
Supervision/ICR

 FY09                                            0                        03
 FY10                                           0.3                      10.08
Total:                                          0.3                        10.38



                                         45
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results

N.A.




                                      46
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Even thought this is not an intensive learning ICR, a wrap-up meeting was held at MEF
on October 27, 2010, to discuss the main outcomes of the DPO with broad representation
from Government’s agencies as well as other donors.

List of Attendees and Persons Interviewed in Cambodia:

Name                         Position                       Organization
H.E. Ngy Chanphal            Secretary of State             MoI
H.E. Ton Vonthara            Secretary of State             MOWRAM
H.E. San Vanty               Under Secretary                MAFF
H.E. Vongsey Vissoth         Secretary General              MEF
H.E. Vong Sandap             Deputy Secretary General       MEF
Mr. Ros Borrom               Deputy Director,               MEF
                             Department of Investment
                             and Cooperation
Mr. Prak Thaveak Amida       Deputy Secretary General       MAFF
Mr. Youn Heng                Director                       CDC
Mr. Samreth Chedthaphirum    Deputy Director                CDC
Mr. Mak Soeun                Director, Extension            MAFF
                             Department
Ms. Chou Putheany            Director                       MOP
Mr. Tauch Chan Kresna        Chief of World Bank Division   MEF
Mr. Chhun Puthearth          Deputy Director General        MOWRAM
Mr. Ly Chhay                 Deputy Director General        MOWRAM
Mr. Julian Hansen            Adviser                        GTZ/MoP
Mr. Tim Purcell              Consultant                     ADI
Mr. Sok Muniroth             Consultant                     ADI
Ms. Katherine Mitchell       2nd Secretary of               Australian Embassy
                             Development
Mr. Brett Ballard            Adviser                        Australian Embassy
Mr. Sin Sovith               Senior Program Manager         Australian Embassy
Ms. Nao Ikemoto              Sr. Natural Resource           ADB
                             Management Specialist
Mr. Dara Roatmuny Ung        Advisor                        IFAD
Mr. Ajay Markanday           Representative                 FAO
Mr. Jean Piere               Representative                 WFP
Ms. Narya Ou                 Program Assistant              World Bank
Ms. Alba Mariana Infante     Social Protection Specialist   World Bank
Villarroel
Ms. Mudita Chamroeun         Task Team Leader               World Bank
Mr. Stephane Guimbert        Senior Country Economist       World Bank
Mr. Paavo Eliste             Senior Economist               World Bank



                                          47
Mr. Qimiao Fan                Country Manager                World Bank

A presentation was made on the preliminary findings of the ICR mission. In general,
there was agreement on the analysis and the ratings. Several points were raised (see
below), which have been taken into consideration and the Achievement Status for some
of the individual actions and indicators has been modified accordingly; but the overall
performance ratings remained unchanged.

The comments received by the stakeholders included the following:
   • O&M Budget – inter-ministerial committee has been established for planning
      irrigation O&M. A budget of US$7million has been allocated for 2011. Based on
      the program performance, additional budget might be allocated.
   • Farmer Organizations - This issue is not just a matter of budget allocation (from
      MEF to MAFF), but importantly, further discussions need to include
      implementation aspects as well as manage expectations from different ministries
      about the scope of interventions.
           – Scope of interventions includes farming operations as well as cooperative
               formation and capacity building and advocacy (three levels, grass roots,
               local level and national level); each of these needs an advocacy role to
               play.
           – Agriculture Legislation framework only refers to farmer organizations
               (Farmer Cooperative, Community Fisheries Groups, and Community
               Forestry Groups) but there are also NGO and privately formed groups.
               Also, FWUC is based on a different law (under MOWRAM). MAFF
               Legislation is about establishing Farmer Cooperatives, which are based on
               agricultural production, marketing and trade. Need to appreciate that the
               MAFF legislation does not cover all types of farmer associations.
   • Risk Sharing Facilities – these have been ongoing, both within RGC as well as
      WB/IFC Risk Share Facility
   • Achievements have continued after 31st May, therefore it should be mentioned
      that these activities are ongoing and progress has been made – particularly in
      Social Protection.
   • Next Steps – look at rice policy implementation




                                           48
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
Design
        A good participatory design process, in particular, with MAFF in the preparation
         of the Policy Matrix
        Planning went smoothly because the Bank set less conditions to the DPO
        MAFF assigned a responsible person as Government counterpart who had a good
         relationship to the MAFF Minister that ensured that the process went smoothly
         from the Government’s side
Implementation
        MEF has approved an allocation to MOWRAM of US$6 million for Small-Scale
         Irrigation project to support smallholder farmers
        EFAP was well implemented – Food For Work, School Feeding and Cash For
         Work
        Cash For Work was the Government’s first such implementation and supports
         productivity enhancement
        Fertilizer distributed to beneficiaries at a 50% discount and payment not sought
         until after harvest
        Cooperated with microfinance companies for collecting fertilizer payments from
         emergency assistance beneficiaries
        Domestic seed suppliers limited – needed to import seed to fulfill emergency
         assistance supply demand
        Supporting the NCDM / CARD technical assistance for the capacity building in
         disaster management and information management

Lessons learned / suggestions
        MOWRAM needs to select a Chair for the Small-Scale Irrigation project
        There is an opportunity to establish private sector partnerships with rural
         microfinance companies
        A proposal from MAFF to produce rice and vegetable seed of high quality and
         non-photosensitive is under consideration. Will provide a surplus and can meet
         the disaster relief supply demands
        There is a desire for Government, development partners and the Bank to maintain
         momentum with the smallholder agriculture and social protection DPO into the
         second phase of the DPO

Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology (MOWRAM)

Implementation
        Received US$6 million in funds on 15 August 2010 to implement the Small-Scale
         Irrigation project under this DPO.


                                            49
        PMU contract signed and a feasibility study to identify irrigation schemes for
         rehabilitation and construction is being conducted in 5 provinces – Kandal,
         Kampong Speu, Kampong Chhnang, Takeo and Kampot. The feasibility study
         will be completed in 2010
        PMU is preparing an implementation agreement between FWUCs and
         PDWRAMs in the 5 target provinces
        In January 2011 MOWRAM will release an invitation to bid for service provision
         for the rehabilitation and construction of small-scale irrigation schemes
        MOWRAM is responsible for procurement
        Rehabilitation and construction will be supervised by MOWRAM
        MOWRAM and MEF will jointly conduct monitoring and evaluation

Lessons learned / suggestions
        The Bank support is vital to the support of the water and agriculture sectors
        Small-scale irrigation projects are important as they provide farmers easy access
         to irrigated water close to their land
        Small-scale irrigation has a positive impact on poverty reduction
        Small-scale irrigation provides access to water and aids development potential for
         water tourism

Ministry of Planning (MoP)
Design
        Overall, the Bank facilitated the design and planning phase well
        MoP involved in planning and development of indicators where the objectives
         pertained to the ID Poor Targeting system
        Over the 18 months of the design phase, the Bank ensured that the process was
         positive and participatory
        There was a large involvement of the development partners and involvement from
         line ministries
        A weakness was that line ministries were often represented by different people at
         different design stages and often were not decision-makers

Implementation
        MoP was invited to submit a proposal to implement relevant DPO actions for the
         period of this DPO. MoP declined because it had secured financing from the EU
         for the same period but needed funds for 2012 and beyond

Lessons learned / suggestions
        Future indicators of DPO Policy Matrices should be improved and be results-
         based
        There is an opportunity for a comparative study of the accuracy of beneficiary
         targeting from the ID Poor Targeting system compared to local perception of
         effective targeting



                                             50
      DPO time period was too limited for Government to procure service providers for
       implementation of DPO actions and future DPOs need to be a longer duration
       than 12 months to enable effective and timely service provision and
       implementation to achieve targets
      A suggestion that the current DPO funding period be extended

The Council for Agricultural and Rural Development (CARD)
Implementation
      ID Poor Targeting system is key to targeting the beneficiaries most in need of
       emergency assistance
      In areas where ID Poor was not implemented, there was little time to explain the
       beneficiary selection process to target villages, hence, some villagers were
       confused by the emergency assistance selection process
      The National Social Protection Strategy (NSPS) has been approved by the
       Council of Ministers and is supported by a good development partner team
      The Social Protection work-plan includes short-term goals to long-term objectives
       to be achieved with support from government and development partners

Lessons learned / suggestions
      Need to standardize procedures nationwide for effective targeting as public
       service delivery is not consistent
      A Social Protection Coordination unit is very important to move the strategy
       forward and manage implementation efforts
      Government should view social protection interventions as in an investment in
       human capital development




                                          51
Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
None received.




                                    52
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


   1. World Bank. 2008. IDA Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the
       Kingdom of Cambodia for the Period FY05-08, Report No. 43330-KH. April 17
       2008.
   2. Kingdom of Cambodia. Letter of Development Policy: Smallholder Agriculture
       and Social Protection Support Operation. 22 May 2009.
   3. IDA. 2009. Program Document for a Proposed Global Food Crisis Response
       Program Grant in the amount of US$8.0 Million and a proposed Credit in the
       amount of SDR3.3 Million (Equivalent to US$5.0 Million) to the Kingdom of
       Cambodia for a proposed Smallholder Agriculture and Social Protection Support
       Operation. Report No. 48083-KH. 19 June 2009.
   4. Kingdom of Cambodia. 2010. Towards a Social Protection Strategy for the Poor
       and Vulnerable: Outcomes of the consultation process. July 2009.
   5. Kingdom of Cambodia and IDA. 2009. Food Price Crisis Response Core Multi-
       donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement: Smallholder Agriculture and Social
       Protection Support Operation. Grant Number TF071074. 4 August 2009
   6. Kingdom of Cambodia and IDA. 2009. Financing Agreement: Smallholder
       Agriculture and Social Protection Support Operation. Credit Number 4638-KH. 4
       August 2009.
   7. Kingdom of Cambodia. 2009. Emergency Food Assistance Project. Quarterly
       Progress Report, July-September 2009. November 2009.
   8. Kingdom of Cambodia. 2010. The National Social Protection Strategy for the
       Poor and Vulnerable. Draft. June 2010.
   9. Stanelle, James and Mak Solieng. 2010. Cambodia Seed Sector Overview.
       Prepared for the World Bank. June 2010.
   10. IFDC. 2010. Rapid Appraisal of Fertilizer Quality in Cambodia. Prepared for the
       World Bank by International Fertilizer Development Center. July 2010.
   11. Kingdom of Cambodia. 2010. Emergency Food Assistance Project. Quarterly
       Progress Report, April-June 2010. August 2010




                                         53
                                        103° E                                              104° E                                     105° E                                        106° E                                          107° E

               0       20         40    60           80 Kilometers
                                                                                                 THAILAND                                                                                        L A O P. D . R .
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CAM BODIA
               0             20           40              60 Miles          To
                                                                       Pak Charang                            Khu Khan


                                                                                                                                                                        To                                                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                     Champasak




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kon
                                                                             ODDAR                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                g
                                                          Samraong                                                                                                                Phiafai
                                                                                                                         Cheom Ksan
                                                                            MEANCHEY                                                                                                              Siem Pang
                                                                                                                                                               Kompong Sralao                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                ng
                                                                                Sre                                                                                                                         ng
             14° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RATANAKIRI




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                                                                                                     PREAH                 VIHEAR                                                                                                                To
               To
               Buri
                                      BANTEAY                                                                                                                                                                                                 Phum Kompadou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Play Cu    MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                          Phnum Tbeng                                                                               Sa
                                     MEANCHEY                                                                                Meanchey
                                                                                                                                                          Melouprey
                                                                                                                                                                          STUNG TRENG                                                  Bun                               RAILROADS
                                                                      Kralanh                                                                                                                                                          Long
                                             Sisophon                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                        SIEM REAP                                                                                          Stung Treng                    Srepok           Lomphat
                                                                                           Siem Reap                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                             Rovieng

                                                         Battambang
                                                                                         Tonle




                                                                                                                                                  Se n
             13° N                     B AT TA M B A N G                                                                                                                                                                                                      13° N




                                                                                                                                                                                       g
                                                                                                                                                                     ng
                                                                                          Sap                                                                                                                                                  Kohnieh




                                                                                                                                                                                  Mekon
                                                                                                                                                                   Poro
                            Pailin           Chas
                                                                                                                KAMPONG                          THOM                                                                        MONDOL
                   PA I L I N                                                                                                            Kampong Thom
                                                                                                                                                                                 K R AT I E                                    K I R I Chbar
                                                                                             Pursat
                                                                                                                                                                                             Kratie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Senmonorom

                                                                  Peam
                                                                                                                            Ton




                                                                                                                              le
                                                                  P U R S AT                                                                           KAMPONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                             KAMPONG                                     CHAM                                                                                            Duc Lap
                                                                                                                                   Sap




                                                                                                                                                                    Kampong
             12° N                                          Ca                                    Phnum      CHHNANG                                  Mekong        Cham                                                                                      12° N
                                                                 rd                                Aoral
                                                                      am                       (1,810 m)                                                                                                                            To
                                                                           om                                                                                                                                                      Ba Ra
                                                                                                                                           PHNOM PENH
                                                                                M
                                                 Krong Koh Kong                     t         KAMPONG                                      PHNOM PENH
                                                                                    s.
                                                                                     .




                                                                                                SPEU                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                           Prey Veng
                                                           KOH KONG                                   Kampong Speu                       Ta Khmau                           SVAY            Tay Ninh
                G ul f o f                                                                                                            KANDAL PREY                          RIENG                                    V I E TN AM
               Thailand                                                                                                                      VENG
                                                                                                                                              Ba k




                                                                                                                                   Chambak                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Svay
                                                                                                                                                ssa




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                 Rieng
                                                                                                                                   Takeo
             11° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11° N
                                                                       Chhak
                                                                      Kampong                                                                                                                                                                                                        CAMBODIA
                                                                       Saom                                                 TAKEO
             This map was produced by
             the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                 KAMPOT                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                               Cao Lanh
             World Bank. The boundaries,               Sihanoukville
             colors, denominations and                                                        Kampot
             any other information shown
             on this map do not imply, on
                                                             SIHANOUK-
                                                                                                       Kep                              To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33381R
             the part of The World Bank                         VILLE                                                               Long Xuyen
             Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                        To
JUN E 2006




             legal status of any territory,
             or any endorsement or                                                                                   Rach Gia
             acceptance of such                                                                        KEP
             boundaries.                  103°   E                                          104° E                                     105° E                                        106° E                                          107° E
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
