Doat of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10328-UNI Type: (PCR)
BLACKWOOD,/ X31752 / T9 053/ OEDDI                    RtN10328
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1838-UNI)
-FEBRUARY 14, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:  Naira (N)
Exchange Rate:  At appraisal: US$1 = N 0.65
Intervening Year Average: US$1 = N 2.19
Completion Year (1988) Average: US$1 = N 4.54
WEIGHTS ANP MEASUR
I metric ton (mt)  =  2,205 pounds (bs) or
0.9842 long ton
I hectare (ha)   =  2.4711 acres (ac)
I acre (ac)    =  0.4047 hectare (ha)
1 kilometer (km) =  0.6214 miles (mi)
I mile (mi)    =  1.6093 kilometers (km)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP          Agricultural Development Project
AISU         Agricultural Inputs Services Unit
APMEPU       Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
ARMTI        Agricultural and Rural Management 1 raining Institute
ASP          Advanced Service Package
BPCC         Budgeting and Planning Coordinating Committee
BSP          Basic Service Package
CSD          Commercial Services Division
EA           Extension Agent
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FACU         Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDA          Federal Department of Agriculture
FDRD         Federal Department of Rural Development
FGN          Federal Government of Nigeria
FMAWR        Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
FSC          Farm Service Center
IITA         International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
LG           Local Government
MANR         Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Oyo State
MDT          Manpower Development and Training
MSADP        Multi-State Agricultural Development Programme
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
OFAR         On-Farm Adaptive Research
ONADE3P      Oyo North Agricultural Development Project
ONPMU        Oyo North Project Management Unit
ONTCC        Oyo North Technical Coordinating Committee
OSG          Oyo State Government
OSWC         Oyo State Water Corporation
OYSICC       Oyo State Investments and Credit Corporation
PCR          Project Completion Report
PMU          Project Monitoring Unit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
T&V          Training and Visit (Extension System)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31 (until January 1, 1981)
January 1 - December 31 (from January 1, 1981)



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
O0ace of D,rectcv-GeeaI
Opetatmon EvalkatHmo
February 14, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
5-UBJECT: Project Completion Report on NIGERIA
Ovo North Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 1838-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nigeria - Oyo North Agricultural Development Project
(Ln. 1838-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. This project has
not been audited by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients- only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLErION REPORT
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1838-UNI        _
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................ i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................... Lii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     Project Identity ........................1,. . l
2. Background.                                                         1
3.     Project Objectives and Description.                             2
4.   Project Design and Organization.                                  3
5.  Project Implementation.                                            4
6.  Project Results.                                                   7
7.     Project Impact on the Environment.                              8
8.  Project Sustainability.                                            8
9.  Bank Performance.                                                  8
10.  Borrower's Performance.                                          9
1I.  Project Relationship.                                            9
12.  Consulting Services.                                              9
13.  Project Documentation and Data.                                  9
14.  Findings and Lessons Learned.                                    9
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1/
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.     Related Bank Loans .        . ......................1....  .3
2.  Project Timetable               . . .13
3.  Disbursements .4
4.  Follow-on Project               . . .14
5.      Project Implementation Indicators     .     .     .15
6.      Project Cost and Financing
A. Total Project Costs .....        ..        .......  17
B. Projeca Financing  ...    ....................... 17
C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds   .          .18
7.  Project Results               . . .18
8.  Status of Covenants              . . .18
9.      Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs   .                 .20
B. Mission Data   .                  .21
Attachment 1          .................................................. 23
MAP:  IBRD 14027R
1/ The Borrower was sent a copy of the draft PCR but no comments were received.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatin



PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1838-UN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Oyo North Agricultural Development
Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 1838-UNI in the amount of US$28.0 million was approved on
April 29, 1980. The original closing date for the Loan was September 30, 1985. The Loan was
closed on September 30, 1988, after three one-year extensions. The final disbursement was on
July 27, 1989. US$24.1 million w2s disbursed, and US$3.9 million was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Africa Country
Department IV (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and m) with the assistance of the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme (CP). A draft Project Completion Report, Parts I and III,
was sent to project management in February 1991 with a request that Part II be prepared, but no
response was received (Attachment 1).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on a field completion mission conducted in
March-April 1990 and the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; ir'temal Bank
memoranda; and the Project's financial statements and audit reports.



- lBw -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1838-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The project sought to increase agricultural production and to improve incomes and
living standards of about 55,000 smallholder families in the northern part of Oyo State. The
project was intended to provide a package of farm support services and physical
infrastructure, including extension advice, improved seeds, fertilizers, and construction and
maintenance of feeder roads. The project included construction of 17 farm service centers
and training facilities for agricultural and other staff. Consultant services were to be engaged
to assist in staff training, the introduction of new technologies, and hydrogeological and cost
recovery studies.
Implementation Experience
2.    Implementation start-up was delayed substantially and the pace of execution remained
slow throughout the project life. There was no objective monitoring and evaluation system.
The agricultural program was decidedly optimistic. The project formally started after a 19-
month delay due to slow fulfillment of loan effectiveness conditions; with late recruitment of
key staff, it became operational only about one year afterwards. The international recruitment
process was delayed by a Federal Government (FGN) personnel policy change which reduced
expatriate staff salaries, forcing OSG to restart the recruitment operation anew. Delays also
occurred in establishing the Project Budgeting and Policy Coordinating Committee (BPCC),
probably due to political instability in the country at the time. The initial implementation
period was marked by conflicts, caused by the creation of a dual command, as a Nigerian co-
manager, not foreseen in the SAR, had been appointed as a compromise solution to having an
expatriate manager. It was followed by a high management turn-over (4 managers in 12
months). These factors weakened the Borrower's loan absorption capacity during the three
initial implementation years. Consequently, loan disbursement at the planned closing date
(September 1985) was only 31 % of the expected amount. Reallocations between loan
categories were approved once in 1982 and again in 1985 when the Bank agreed to finance
local staff salaries, denoting concern with the Borrower's emerging financial difficulties.
Counterpart funding whilst not a major constraint overall did slow down project activities and
inhibited staff recruitment as there were frequent delays in the Borrower's quarterly
contributions.
3.    Progress improved after 1985 with more stable management arrangemenes. T'he
execution rate, however, continued to be slow. An important contributing factor was the
difficulty in getting staff because of the project's remote location, which was not helped by



- 4v -
the slow pace of infrastructure construction. OSGs and LGs failed to carry out
complementary and maintenance works fcr roads and water supplies, and this further delayed
infrastructure construction. The losses incurred on inputs sales, seeds distribution and tractor
hire, reduced the funding available for other project activities. Residual loan funds in the
final year were used, with Bank agreement, for preparatory actions to advance the
implementation of the follow-on State-wide ADP under the third Multistate Agricultural
Development Project (MSADP III - Cr. No. 2035-UNI).
4.    The inappropriateness of the SAR-proposed technological packages to the financial
realities of the farm economy, disadvantaged by unfavorable macro-economic conditions,
raised serious doubts over the project's conceptual foundations. The overvalued Naira made
exports uncompetitive and food imports cheap, drastically affecting domestic production
incentives. The minimum tillage (MT) techniques - to be the project's innovation - proposed
by the SAR on the basis of successful experiences in the United States, and on IITA research
results in Ibadan, turned out to be unfeasible at farm level. Fertilizer and improved seeds, the
main elements had a satisfactory impact on yields, especially after 1986 when macro
economic reforms induced higher prices for crops. The project's adaptive research while
conducted objectively, contributed little to supply the extension service with sound
technological messages relevant to to the farming systems. Trials with yams and cassava -
two major crops - were not fruitful, while relevant findings on impact of micronutrients on
yields could not be addressed through the Federally-determined fertilizer formulations.
5.    The extension staff, although qualified and motivated, were, in numbers, generally
below 50% of SAR projections. The final extensionist/farmer ratio was 1:1070 instead of the
foreseen 1:600 target but this ratio is consistent with the now generally accepted national ratio
of 1:1000. The project's production of improved maize seeds was substantial (450 tons in
1988), but only one third of the output became available to the project for distribution to other
farmers. Other seed production was less impressive, and was insignificant for yams and
cassava. Most of the project's production increases are attributable to the extensive use of
fertilizer which the project promoted, helped by a very substantial (70%) price subsidy.
Fertilizer distribution was, however, hampered by the generally late and irregular supply from
the Federal Government. Fertilizer sales generated constant losses to the project, as transport
and distribntion costs were not reimbursed by OSG or FGN, nor recoverable through sale
prices which were predetermined by FGN.
6.    The Farm Management (FM) and Land Use Planning (LP) units were created late due
to recruitment difficulties and made no practical contribution to improving existing farming
practices. Staffing levels were below SAR expectations. The FM unit made some surveys
which overlapped with M&E activities, denoting lack of coordination. It made no impact in
assisting farmers with better management methods. The LP unit did not succeed in
introducing the soil conservation method proposed at appraisal. Farm mechanization, on the
other hand, was enhanced and private tractor services were encouraged. Most of the tractors
of the Tractor Hire Unit were transferred to private operators towards the end of the project.
7.    The project's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) was not able to generate
adequate baseline data to overcome the lack of reliable agro-socioeconomic databases at
preparation/appraisal. The unit also failed to implement an objective yields and production
monitoring system in the project area. An unclear differentiation between beneficiaries and
overall producers, plus inconsistencies in the yield data itself, rendered the M&E project



- NV -
implementation statistics unreliable for quantitative analysis and evaluation. Nonethless, these!
d"ta do indicate a significant expansion in the cropped area and together with a much wider
^ of fertilizer, imply productior increases which could be significant.
b.    The implementation of tho infrastructure component, although delayed by technical
and tendering difficulties, was one of the project's best achievements. The Project
headquarters, as well as stores and farm service centers were satisfactorily built; the feeder
roads target was surpassed, and the water supply target was achieved with some changes to
allow for hydrological constraints; fewer but larger dams were constructed, while the number
of wells sunk by the project was over 400% of the SAR target. The project also established
water purification plants and reticulation schemes, a responsibility which the State Water
Corporation failed to fulfill.
Results
9.     The project attempted to find more realistic technologies than those proposed by the
SAR, in order to improve smallholder farming systems. The introduction of soya, rice and
groundnuts, although modest in scale, is a clear result of these efforts. However, while the
project's role in the process was important, incremental production of the traditional crops
(maize, sorghum and yams) must be attributed primarily to area expansion and iincreased use
of cheap fertilizers, rather than to project initiatives. Inconsistencies in existing data do not
allow the estimation of farmers' financial gains and economic returns. Financial gains have
come from expanded use of fertilizer, which has been widely accepted because of the
substantial subsidy and of the overall favorable farmgate input/output ratios, especially after
1986.
10.    The project, however, represented a major development effort in the state. It
mobilized important resources in the construction of rural feeder roads and farm service
centers that facilitated farm-to-market transport and the distribution of fertilizer. While
physical indicators of infrastructural development show better performance against original
targets, no institutional arrangement was created to guarantee maintenance of the facilities.
Manpower development through the assumption of managerial responsibility by the Nigerians
after the departure of the expatriate staff, is an achievement of the project. The accumulated
experience in the project management unit became instrumental in the state-wide expansion of
activities under the follow-on project MSADP III. TI' h organizational structure and the
experience acquired in the delivery of extension and other services should prove of great
value in the continuation of extension and other support activities to the benefit of
smallholders.
11.   The project's impact on the environment was mixed. Macro and sector policies and
improved access with project constructed roads encouraged farmers to clear more lan(, thus
exerting a negative impact on the environment. Conversely, expanded use of fertilizer
produced more vigorous crops and increased yields, and therefore contributed to reducing
further land clearing and soil erosion.
Sustainabil ity
12.    Unfavorable macro-economic conditions prevented adoption of technological packages
to increase and sustain yields and production. No arrangements were made for local



vi -
gover.iments to take over maintenance of rural infrastructure with the poor finances of the
State and Local Governments being a major factor. Any gains achieved at the completion of
the project would have been lost without the infusion of resources of the follow-on MSADP
III which provides funds anid training for strengthening the institutlonal capacity of the LGs to
maintain the project buildirgs, roads and waterworks. On the positive side, most of the
project tractors were transferred to private operators who are now providing an effective and
sustainable service.
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.   The main lessons derived from the ONADEP experience, some of which are common
to other ADPs, include:
(i)    Political commitment, translated into regular funding and institutional
support, is a key element for successful project planning and
implementation.
(ii)   In projects where success is dependent on farmers adopting new
technologies on a large-scale, such technologies should not only be
adequately tested in the field before introduction but also be
appropriate to the financial circumstances of farmers.
(iii)   Dilution of the authority of the Project Manager by setting up a dual
command should be avoided, and involvement of Ministry officials
shouid be only in policy and program coordination and not in project
management.
(iv)   The project should focus first on the development of an
implementation capacity, and full-scale delivery of agricultural
services should wait until the capacity has been developed and
relevant technological packages are available.
(v)    Contracting a specialized firm or institution to manage the project
from start-up through completion, by means of a concentrated
presence initially and through punctuated interventions subsequently,
could be a better alternative to the hiring of individual experts.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
OVO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1838-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    ProJect Identitv
Project Name      : Oyo North Agricultural Development Project (ONADEP)
Loan No.            1838-UNI
RVP Unit          : Atrica
Country           : Nigeria
Sector              Agriculture
Sub-Sector        : Area Development
2.    Background
2.1    During the oil boom of the 1970s, agricultural production in Nigeria stagnated,
growing at about 1% per year while population annual growth was around 3%. From 1970
to 1982, the contribution of the agricultural sector to GDP fell dramatically from 45% to 27%
and its share of exports dropped from 70% to 2% over the same period. The p^rf-rmance of
agriculture was, at that time, undermined by disincentives created by the oil boom, which
included: (i) appreciation of the exchange rate; (ii) the enhanced profitability of investments in
non-tradeable commodities and services; (iii) rising wages in the public sector and the urban
private sector that drained labor from rural areas; and (iv) a corresponding downgrading of
the profitability of agriculture.
2.2   It was expected that, as a consequence of rising oil prices, Nigeria would be in a
comfortable financial position in the 1980s, while the post-oil era would depend on the
success with which imports were replaced by domestic production and non-oil exports were
stimulated. Consequently, according to the Fourth National Development Plan, then under
preparation, the next five years would be used to consolidate the nation's economic base and
to lay the foundations for balanced long-term economic development. In the agriculture
sector the Government's main objective was to improve the domestic price stability of basic
food crops and to ensure food self-sufficiency. Longer-term objectives included the creation
of a prosperous and efficient agriculture, through inter alia, the development of irrigation and
the expansion of an ADP-based strategy to improve rural infrastructure, promote modern
farming techniques and improve inputs supplies to smallholders.
2.3    This agricultural strategy was built on the experience of ongoing enclave ADPs,
whose apparent success encouraged the Nigerian authorities and the Bank to extend similar
packages of extension, inputs and feeder roads to other states. However, it was not
accompanied, at the time, by policies conducive to agricultural growth which came into effect
only in 1986 when the Nigerian Government launched its Structural Adjustment Program
(SAP). These included principally the introduction of a market-determined exchange rate and



- 2 -
the elimination of the commodity marketing boards. A ban on food imports also improved
the incentive environment for domestic farming though it did not promote long-term
efficiency.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
(i)    Project Objectives
3.1    The primary objectives of the project, in accord with Federal and State government
policies, were to increase agricultural production and farm incomes and to improve the
welfare and standard of living of the farming population. The project, designed to be
implemented over five years, was to benefit some 55,000 smallholding families on 43,000
hectares.
(ii)    Components
3.2    The project had the following main components:
(a)    Farm and Crop Development
Increasing production of the major crops grown by smallholders on about
33,000 ha through the introduction of a Basic Service Package (BSP)
involving improved farming practices, strengthened extension services and
provision of improved seeds, fertilizer, crop protection measures, higher
planting densities, and improved manual and mechanized techniques, including
some expansion of both state and private tractor services; introducing a more
Advance Service Package (ASP) based on techniques of weed control
including minimum tillage, which due to the advanced nature of the techniques
required would be limatpd in area to no more than 12,500 ha; establishing a
farm management service with planning capability to assist group and
individual farrners in their operations; and establishing a reliable and efficient
farm input supply system.
(b)    Civil Works
Constructing 550 km of new feeder roads, improving 250 km of existing
roads and maintaining these roads for three years u.itil they are handed over to
Local Government; constructing 40 small to medium dams; constructing 300
wells; and constructing project offices, workshops, farm buildings, stores,
staff houses, and 17 Farm Service Centers.
(c)    Institutional Support
Providing for a management structure with the required technical and
administrative staff, logistical support and funds to implement the project,
evaluate project progress, and provioc guidelines for future projects; providing
integrated in-service and formal training schemes for all levels of staff
together with such courses for farmers as may be necessary; assisting the
Agricultural Inputs Services Uniit (AISU) to operate an efficient input supply



- 3 -
and distribution system; and providing funds for the international recruitment
of the Project Manager and 11 other key staff.
(d)    Consultancy (36 man-months)
Assisting MANR in start-up operations for the project; providing technical
consultancy on agricultural management and introduction of new techniques;
carrying out a hydrogeological survey of the project area; assisting in
establishing management training; and evaluating a potential tax base for
Local Government Areas (LGAs).
4.     Project Desig-n and OrI!anization
4.1    The project's strategy was centered on the zisseinination of "basic service packages"
(BSP) involving improved farming practices and inputs (particularly plarnting densities, seeds
and fertilizer), and "advanced service packages" (ASP), consisting of minimum and zero
tillage techniques. These innovations were to be promoted by an organized system of
agricultural services and rural infrastructure was to be constructed. To overcome initial
managerial constraints of existing state institutions, staffing included an important inout of
expatriate experts. The optimistic design, in terms of implementation targets and timetable as
well as agricultural production and technology adoption forecasts, reflected the optimism of
the oil-boom. Appraisal of the project, however, failed to properly assess the macro-
economic situation facing the agriculture sector and the impact of an over-valued currency on
domestic food production.
4.2    The SAR assumptions relied on a weak database. The number of farmers and farm
sizes were based on rough estimates. Technical parameters could have been more rigorously
reviewed. Pre-project yields may have been underestimated, while the project's advanced
package yields were clearly overestimated with adoption rates, consequently being unrealistic.
Due to a lack of reliable hydrological data, most of the planned water supply dams were not
built. Counterpart funding, that was soon to be affected by the oil price crash, as well as
bureaucratic processes, was not realistically assessed.
4.3    The project created the Oyo North Project Management Unit (ONPMU) to overcome
institutional constraints arising from operating a complex and wide range of activities
involving several state Ministries. As a semi-autonomous management unit under the state's
Ministry of Agriculture (MANR), ONPMU was answerable to the Budgeting and Policy
Coordinating Committee (BPCC). Originally ONPMU was responsible for overall policy,
budget and program planning for all Bank-assisted projects in Oyo State; later, however, with
Bank agreement it limited its coverage exclusively to ONADEP. The Oyo North Project
Technical Coordination Committee (ONPTCC), which included representatives of LGCs,
other relevant agencies and selected farmers, was to serve as ONPMU's coordinating unit at
the local level. Its role included the siting of roads and farm service centers, coordinating
project and non-project activiti-s, and reviewing project related disputes. To compensate for
the lack of experienced local staff, the project provided for the hiring of an internationally
recruited Project Manager (PM) and other key staff.
4.4    The proposed organizational structure was basically sound and adequately adjusted to
the existing institutional situation. Difficulties, particularly in the initial years, resulted not so



- 4 -
much from the proposed structure as from insufficient Government commitment,
:implementation omissions and deviations from the original scheme. For political reasons,
Oyo State Government (OSG) appointed, together with an expatriate manager, an indigenous
project co-manager not foreseen in the SAR, generating conf.icts within the project
management. Strained personal relations between the expatriate PM and MANR Permanent
Secretary, as well as delayed BPCC meetings are further examples of organizational
difficulties. They lasted for over two years but were resolved after the replacement of the
MANR Permanent Secretary with the State Commissioner of Agricu!ture as chairman of
PBCC, the replacement of the expatriate PM by a national, and the abolition of the post of
project co-manager.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1    Project start-up was delayed substantially and subsequent execution was slow. An
objective monitoring and evaluation system was not developed. The agricultural program was
unrealistically planned without regard to the macro-economic situation. Actual project
implementation took over 8 yearb instead of the 5 years estimated at appraisal.
5.2   Implementation started after a 19 months delay, due to slow fulfillment of loan
effectiveness conditions. and because of late recruitment of key staff. OSG was initially
reluctant to hire an internationally-recruited manager as required by the Loan Agreement.
Subsequentlv, the international recruitment process was delayed by a FGN personnel policy
change which significantly reduced expatriate staff salaries, forcing OSG to start the
recruitment operation anew. Ti,, project execution was also delayed by procrastinated BPCC
meetings which approved the project work program and budget. The initial implementation
period was mrarked by constant decision conflicts caused by the project's dual manage,-.ent.
A Nigerian co-manager, not foreseen in the SAR, had been appointed as a compromise, in
addition to an expatriate manager. There was also a high management turn-over (4 managers
in 12 months). These weakened the Borrower's loan absorption capacity during the three
initial implementation years. Project implementation progress improved after 1985, with the
establishment of a stable management headed by a competent Nigerian PM.
5.3    Frequent delays in the payment of the Borrower's quarterly contributions led to slow
down of project implementation. However, in spite of the government's financial constraints,
the project's requirements, adjusted to the existing recruitment and technical constraints, were
invariably honored by the Borrower, and the project had enough funds at the end of each
,'isco! year. Therefore, counterpart funding was not such a major implementation issue as in
other ADPs at that time. Project cost was $57.8 million against an SAR estimate of $69.4
million reflecting lower use of inputs and Naira devaluation. The Bank funding ratio was as
anticipated but FGN contributions were about 30% higher to offset lower state funding.
5.4    There were other factors which served to restrict activities and slow down the
disbursement pace in the later years of the project. MANR seconded staff were difficult to
transfer to remote locations in the project area. New recruits were difficult to obtain as more
attractive job opportunities were available to qualified applicants in Ibadan (the State capital)
and elsewhere; besides, the suspension of construction of water supply infrastructure,
following the first extension of the loan closing date further increased the hardship factor. In
fact, one of the conditions for loan extension was that infrastructure works would be
suspended until arrangements were made (i) with the State Water Corporation (OSWC) to



- 5 -
implement water purification and reticulation schemes related to the project-constructed dams;
and (ii) with the Local Government Areas (LGA), to maintain project feeder roads. Due to
financial and institutional difficulties, OSWC and LGAs failed to fulfill their responsibilities,
and the project eventually had to undertake both complementary water-supply works and road
maintenance activities. Losses incurred on inputs sales, seeds distribution and tractor hire,
reduced the funding available for project activities. Fertilizer sales generated constant losses
to the project, as transport and distribution costs were not reimbursed by FGN, while project
seeds and tractor services were sold at highly subsidized prices.
5.5    The inappropriate technological packages were amongst the most limiting factors in
achieving the aims of the ONADEP agricultural program. The inapplicability at the farm
level of the SAR-proposed advanced technological packages (ASP), and the difficulty in
setting up acceptable high yielding improved packages (BSP) was a major set-back to the
project's concept and strategy. The ASP packages were to be centered on zero and minimum
tillage (MT) techniques, desirable for soil conservation and cropping sustainability reasons, as
well as, theoretically, for promoting higher yields at lower production costs. MT was
proposed by the Bank for ONADEP and other ADPs based on successful experiences in the
USA and on encouraging preliminary IITA on-station research results in Ibadan, Oyo State,
Nigeria. However, adaptive trials conducted in the project area demonstrated the
inapplicability of MT farming under the local agroecological conditions. This confirmed
similar results in other tropical countries, where it was shown that with insufficient crop
residues, associated with the rapid oxidization of organic matter, it was not possible to build
up the mulch layer necessary to form the desired soil conditions and to control weeds. This
resulted in expensive chemical weed control, while yields were significantly lower than in
conventional tillage. The impact of fertilizer and improved seeds (the BSP main elements) on
yields was satisfactory, particularly in the period subsequent to 1986 1/ when farmers
received better prices and had the incentive to improve their cultural practices.
5.6    The project adaptive research (AR) activities contributed less than expected to supply
the extension service with sound technological messages acceptable to farmers. Most of the
efforts in the initial years were directed at sole cropping, even though multiple cropping was
the predominant farming system in the area. The trials concentrated on maize and helped to
determine the varieties to be promoted in the project area. Experiments were mainly carried
out on research stations. Only 15% were on-farm trials. The project's yams and cassava
seeds were not attractive to the farmers who preferred to use their own supply of locally
adapted varieties. Relevant findings on impact of micronutrients (Zn and S) on yields could
not be incorporated in the formulation of fertilizer compounds distributed to the farmers.
Fertilizer formulations and procurement were in the hands of FGN. One of the most
important achievements of AR was the ASP minimum and zero tillage (MT) validation trials
mentioned in the previous paragraph.
5.7    The extension staff, although qualified and motivated, was in numbers generally
below 50% of SAR projections. The final EA/farmer ratio averaged 1:1070 instead of the
foreseen 1:600 target but this ratio is consistent with the now generally accepted national ratio
of 1:1000. The T&V system seems to have been successfully introduced by the project and
I/ FGN introduced macro-cconomic rcfonns under a Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) the main thrust of which
was the liberali7ation of priccs and markets and a morc realistic foreign exchangc valuc for the Naira.



-6 -
its effectiveness increased after 1986 when farmers started receiving better prices for their
crops. Extension promoted technical messages included the use of fertilizer, the general
acceptability of which was facilitated by its highly subsidized price (about 70% subsidy) and
by the project established inputs distribution network; the intensification of planting densities,
which was adopted to a lesser extent; and the introduction of improved seeds.
5.8    The project's production of improved maize seeds was substantial (over 450 tons in
1988, of which 300 t were produced by outgrowers), although only one third of the output
became available to the project for distribution to other farmers. Other seed production was
less impressive, and insignificant for yams and cassava. The farmers already possessed high-
yielding local cassava seeds, and the project's yams mini-sets which took a long time to
mature were not attractive to the farmers. As foreseen at appraisal, seed production started
on the State-owned farms under project management and was progressively transferred to
outgrowers who were producing over 50% of the output at project completion. There was,
however, no proper quality control, and overall impact of improved seeds on farmers' yields
is questionable.
5.9    Most of the project's production increase is attributable to the extensive use of
fertilizer which the project helped to promote through its extension service and its Farm
Service Centers. It is quite possible that some amount of fertilizer leaked across the country's
borders given the heavy subsidy on fertilizer in Nigeria. Average fertilizer distribution was
about 65% of SAR targets. Distribution was hampered by frequently late and irregular supply
provided by FGN. The project made some, efforts to gradually transfer the inputs distribution
activities to local cooperatives on a cash-and-carry basis, with promising results.
5.10   Recruitment difficulties resulted in the Farm Management (FM) and Land Use
Planning (LP) units being started late. These units made no practical contribution to
improving the existing farming practices. Manning was below SAR expectations. The FM
unit made some surveys that overlapped with M&E activities, denoting lack of coordination,
and was ineffective in assisting farmers with better management methods while LP failed to
introduce the soil conservation practices proposed at appraisal. Farm mechanization was
enhanced, in spite of the poor efficiency of the Tractor Hire Unit (THU). Private tractor
services were encouraged and most tractors were sold off to private operators.
5.11   The project's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) was not able to generate
adequate baseline data to overcome the lack of reliable agro-socioeconomic database
encountered at project preparation/appraisal. The unit also failed to implement an objective
yields and production monitoring system in the project area. An unclear differentiation
between beneficiaries and overall producers together with yields and production data
inconsistencies, rendered project implementation statistics unreliable for quantitative analysis
and evaluation. These, however, do point to a significant expansion in the cropped area
which, taken together with extended use of fertilizer, implies important production increases.
5.12   OSG, which had agreed to provide the Oyo State Investments and Credit Corporation
(OYSICC) with funds for short-term credit to farmers, estimated at N 1.5 million per year,
failed to do so. The project instituted some credit support through the local cooperatives, and
commercial banks also provided some loan funds to farmers. It is worth mentioning that
farmer credit handled through their cooperatives achieved near 100% recovery in the final
years of the project. The project's training program took off only two years after project



-7-
start-up, due to lack of personnel. At completion the project's Manpower Development and
Training Division (MDT)'s total staff was only 44% of the SAR predicted 32, implying a
lower than expected concern with this important activity. However, in-house as well as off-
site and overseas courses were provided for project technical and administrative staff, with
variable results. Training was also organized for farmers and LG staff.
5.13   The implementation of the infrastructure component, although delayed by technical
and tendering difficulties, was one of the project's best achievements. Project headquarters,
as well as stores and farm service centers although reduced in number, were satisfactorily
built; the feeder roads target was surpassed, and the water supply target was achieved with
some changes to allow for hydrological constraints: 12 medium/large dams, instead of the
expected 40 small dams, were constructed, while the number of wells sunk by the project,
were over 400% of the SAR target (1,391 instead of 300). However, only 48 instead of the
planned 300 hand pumps were installed, reportedly due to lack of reliable pumps on the
market. The project also established a number of water purification plants and reticulation
schemes, as the State Water Corporation failed to do so owing to financial constraints. Road
and water supply infrastructure maintenance was also carried out by the project, as the LGs
were then not ready to undertake these operations. The project infrastructure is now being
maintained by the follow-up state-wide ADP, which is also providing funds for the training of
staff and for strengthening the institutional capacity of the LGs to ensure future mainenance of
the infrastructure.
6.     Project Results
6.1    The project attempted to find more realistic technologies than those proposed by the
SAR, in order to improve smallholder farming systems. The introduction of soya (30 ha),
rice (85 ha) and groundnut (3,000 ha), although on a modest scale, is a clear result of these
efforts. However, while the project's role in the overall development of the area was
important, incremental production of the traditional crops such as maize (40%), sorghum
(15%) and yams (40%), must be attributed primarily to expanded crop land and increased use
of fertilizer encouraged by price subsidies. A supervision mission in 1986 estimated the
financial return to fertilizer use for sorghum, which has a low yield response to fertilizer, to
be 2:1 including incremental labor costs, and for fertilizer alone, 4:1.
6.2    While physical indicators of infrastructural development show some resemblance to
the original targets, institutional arrangements could not be created during the project period
to guarantee maintenance. Because of inconsistencies in project management records,
available data do not allow a reliable estimation either of financial gains of the farmers or of
the economic returns to the overall investment. Farm income increased in response to
expanded use of fertilizer (because of the substantial subsidy) and to overall post-1986
favorable farmgate input/output price ratio, created by the SAP macroeconomic reforms.
6.3   In spite of its weaknesses, however, the project had the effect of initiating rural
development efforts in the state. It mobilized important resources for the construction of rural
feeder roads and farm service centers that facilitated farm-to-market transport and the
distribution of fertilizer. Manpower development through the assumption of managerial
responsibility by the Nigerians after the departure of the expatriate staff, was a significant
achievement of the project. The accumulated experience of the project management unit
provided an institutional foundation for the state-wide expansion of activities under the follow-



- 8 -
on MSADP III project. The organization structure and the experience acquired in the
delivery of extension and other services is bound to prove of value in the continuation of such
essential activities ,o the benefit of smallholders. Recent Bank missions have reported that the
overall performance of the management of the state-wide ADPs is very satisfactory, though
adequate and regular release of counterpart funds has yet to be achieved.
7.     Project Impact on the Environment
7.1    The project's impact on the environment seems to have l,en mixed, and must be
considered in the context of macroeconomic policies affecting the rural sector in general.
Favorable farm price ratios, better access to the markets through project feeder roads and
subsidized tractor hire services encouraged expanded land clearing, with a probable negative
impact on the environment. Conversely, the extended use of fertilizers stimulated by their
low prices, produced more vigorous crops and increased yields, reducing the need for further
land clearing. However, sustainable farming in the long run will require improved soil/water
conservation practices and better fertilizer formulations to address location and crop-specific
nutrient requirements, both of which the project failed to achieve. Fertilizer formulations
continues to be determined by FGN which also undertakes the procurement and distribution to
states. The lack of private sector activity in this area will remain a major drawback in
promoting sustainable agricultural growth.
8.     Proiect Sustainahility
8.1    The project was unable to produce technological packages to increase and sustain
yields and production, and State-Local Government take-over of maintenance of rural
infrastructure was not set in place. However, with the infusion of additional resources under
MSADP III, the existing infrastructure is being maintained and staff training and institutional
development is being financed to ensure future maintenance on a sustainable basis. Witl
regard to tractor services, the project was able to transfer most of its tractors to private
operators who are now providing an effective and sustainable service.
9.     Bank Performance
9.1    At appraisal, the Bank did not anticipate the Borrower's eventual financial difficulties
and, confident in Nigeria's projected prosperity, did not properly assess the Borrower's
counterpart funding risks. Project design was ambitious and agricultural technology
assumptions were not based on rigorous tests. Risks were thus not properly assessed and
adequately addressed. Bank supervision missions detected early the main political, technical
and financial issues and problems. Improved criteria on cost-effectiveness and other
conditions were eventually introduced as a basis for agreement of reallocations of
disbursement categories and loan closing extensions, but their enforcement was not carried out
with sufficient rigor. It should be noted that the Bank did not provide the full complement of
mission staff with the required technical skills mix for its missions. The supervision missions
in the initial difficult years consisted usually of one or two persons for very short visits.



-9-
10.   Borrower's Performance
10.1   Borrower's performance was characterized by an extremely delayed fulfillment of loan
effectiveness conditions; slow procurement proceedings and staff recruitment; and in the
initial years, frequent interventions by OSG in project management. OSG's commmitment to
the project initially was questionable but improved in later years. It should be mentioned here
that in spite of the irregular release of funds, particularly by the OSG, overall the project's
funding constraints were less severe than that of other ADPs in Nigeria. In the later years of
the project, ONADEP performed quite well benefitting from a competent and a homogenous
team of Nigerian senior staff.
11.   Project Relationship
11.1   Loan closing, extensions and reallocations of disbursement categories, as well as
necessary organizational and management modifications, were conducted by the Borrower and
the Bank with a common understanding of project problems and constraints, and a shared
objective of accelerating implementation. The change of government in Nigeria during the
project period did not affect the relationship; if anything, it improved the official climate in
which the project was operating. Both the project management and the Bank were given
adequate support by the new Commissioner for Agriculture (who was appointed to chair the
BPCC) in resolving the project's problems.
12.   Consulting Services
12.1   Total loan disbursement for consultancy services reached US$3.0 million, or o5% of
the expected US$4.6 million at appraisal. Although data on actual utilization by man-months
were not provided, a lower unit cost than foreseen in the SAR could be the case with some
local consultants having been employed in the later phase of the project. The proposed
hydrological studies were not carried out due to insufficiency of funds allocated in the Loan.
Instead, the project management decided to collect and analyse available Landsat imagery and
other hydrological information relating to the project area, with the assistance of specialised
foreign consultants.
13.   Project Documentation and Data
13.1   Project covenants as well as the project organization and management scheme were
clearly stipulated for effective implementation. The project and its SAR were, however,
based on deficient baseline data which diminished the usefulness of the document for project
implementation.
14.   Findings and Lessons Learned
14.1   Some lessons that can be derived from the ONADEP experience, of relevance to both
the Borrower and the Bank, are summarized below:
(a)    Political commitment, translated into regular funding and institutional support,
is a key element for successful project planning and implementation.



- 10-
(b)    Dilution of the authority of the Project Manager by setting up a dual
command should be avoided. Involvement of Ministry officials should only
be at the policy and program coordination level and not in project
management.
(c)    Technological packages should not only be based on farm tested technologies
but should also be appropriate to the financial circumstances of farmers.
(d)    The project should focus first on the development of an implementation
capacity, and full-scale delivery of agricultural services should wait until the
capacity has been developed and relevant technological packages are available.
(e)    Project monitoring and evaluation shouid be carried out systematically.
(f)    Contracting a specialized institution with recognized experience in project
management, to manage the project from start-up through completion, by
means of a concentrated presence initially and through punctuated
interventions subsequently, could be a better alternative to the hiring of
individual experts.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(No comments were received)



- 13 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans
YEARS OF
LOAN         TITLE/PURPOSE        APPROVAL        STATUS
1099-UNI      Funtua ADP             1975        Completed
1099-UNI      Gusau ADP              1975        Completed
1164-UNI      Gombe ADP              1975        Completed
1667-UNI      Bida  ADP              1979        Completed
1668-UNI      llorin ADP             1979        Completed
2988-UNI      Multi-State ADP 11     1989        Ongoing
2035-UNI      Multi-State ADP III    1989        Ongoing
2.    Project Timetahle
Date Planned               Date Actual
Identification                                         October 14-23, 1975
Preparation                                            April 1976
Feasibility Study                                      Jan.-May 1977
Appraisal Mission                                      October 1978
Staff Appraisal Report     Feb. 27, 1979               March 1980
Loan Negotiations          April 1979                  November 7, 1979
Board Approval             April 11, 1980              April 29, 1980
Loan Effectiveness         November 25, 1980           March 31, 1982
Completion                 March 31, 1985 1/           September 30, 1988
Loan Closing               September 30, 1985 1/       September 30, 1988
J/ Loan closing date was extended three times, for a total of 36 months.



- 14 -
3.     Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Acttal Disbursemnets
(USS Nillion)
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85   FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89
Appraisal
Estimate       8.3  14.5  18.5  24.0  28.0
Actual         0.0   0.2   1.4   F.4   8.8  11.2   14.1  15.8  23.6  24.1
Actual as 2
of estimate    X0 1    7X    22X   31X   40X    502   562   85X   86X
Date of Final Disbursement: July 27, 1989
4.     Follow-on Project
Name:                          Multi-State Agricultural Development III
Credit No.:                    Cr. 2035-UNI
Credit Amount:                 US$100.9 Million
Project Costs:                 US$159.4 Million
Dates of Board Approval:       June 13, 1989
Date of Effectiveness:         February 2, 1990
Comments on Follow-on Project: The project will facilitate increased agricultural
production in the Southern States of Ondo, Oyo, Lagos and Rivers, while enabling the
rural population to increase income levels and fostering conservation of natural
resources. It will also strengthen the National Seed Service, create new and maintain
existing infrastructure, and assist in rural credit delivery. FACU and APMEU will
receive support to provide technical assistance to the four states.



- 1J -
5.      Project Implemjentation Indicators
Appraisal
I. Farm and Crop Development                      Estimate             Actual
- Improved Farming Practices                        34,500              *49,600
(Basic Service Package)
Area Developmcnt (ha)
- Advanced service package                          11,500                  0
Area development (ha)                                            _ __   .
-Project beneficiaries
BSP small farmer families (No.)                   51,500               *13,700
ASP medium farmer families (No.)                   3,500                    0
- Average farm size: (BSP) (ha)                        2.0                  3.6
(AS?) (ha)                            3 to 6                 -
- Extension agent/farmer ratio: From                1:2000
To                        1:600                1:1070
- Crop yiclds (t/ha)
BSP                                       From       To
Maize                                       0.8    1.5                  *1.7
Sorghum                                     0.5    0.8                 * 1.2
Yams                                        7.0   11.0                 *15.8
Cassava                                     7.0    9.0                 *11.5
Cowpeas                                     0.1    0.5                 *0.4
ASP
Maize                                       0.8    2.4                   0
Cassava                                     7.0   14.0                   0
Cowpeas                                     0.1    0.5                   0
- Research
Applied Research                                       3                   3
Stations (No.)                                        -                   32
On-station trials                                                         6
On-farm trials
- Seed Multiplication
(tons per year at full development)
Maize                                                 -                  454
Rice                                                  -                   5.3
Cowpeas                                               -                  10.6
Soya                                                  -                   8.8
Groundnut                                             -                  2.7
*Data may not be accurate.



(cont'd)  _______________________                      SA1,               Actual
- Inputs Distribution (t)
(incremental, year 5)
Fertilizer                                                 9,025               5,200
Insecticides                                                220                 2.0
Herbicides                                                 31.5                  1.2
Improved seeds                                             _                   264.6
2. Civil Works
- Roads (km)
Feeder road construction                                   550                  650
Road Improvement                                           250                  264
Road maintenance                                          4,800                 697
- Water Supply
Dams construction (No.)                                     40                   12
Dam capacity ('000 m3)                                    2,600                5,700
Wells                                                      300                 1,391
Pumps                                                      300                   48
- Staff House Construction
Scnior staff                                                16                    6
Intcrmediate                                                28                    7
Junior staff                                                16                    5
Guest house                                                  1                    3
Recreation center                                            4                    1
Farm service centers                                        17                   10
Stores                                                       0                   12
Headquarters (including offices,                             1                    I
workshops, stores, etc.)
Maizc cribs                                                 0                    69
3. Staff Development and Training
- Project Staff Training
Trainees (No.)                                                                 4,390
Courses (No.)
Local                                                                          350
Overseas                                                                        45
Farmer training (No.)                                                          3,151



- 17 -
(cont'd)                                           SAPA              Actual
4. Consultant Services (Man-Months)
- Basic agricultural management                           10                 n.a.
- Management training                                     6                  n.a.
- Hydrogeological studics                                 14                  0
- Start-up operations                                     3                  n.a.
- Tax/fee policy study                                    3                  n.a.
n.a. = not available
6.      Proiect Cost and Financina
A. Total Proiect Cost
(US$ Million)
SAR Estimated Costs                Actual Costs
Local       FE        Total     Local       FE        Total
Project Cost       41.4       28.0      69.4       33.7     124.1       57.8
(Percent)      T (60%)       (40%)    (100%)      (58%)      (42%)       (100 %)
1$. Proiect Financina
(USS Million)
Perccnt                            Estimated                          Actual
Federal Government           17.4            (25%)             18.8             (32%)
State Government             24.0            (35%)             14.9             (26%)
World Bank                   28.0             (40%)            24.1             (42%)
Total                       69.4           (100%)             57.8            (100%)



C. ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ Million)
Estimated      %        First         Second        Actual          %
Amount                 Revised        Revised       Amount
Amount        Amount
Category                                         (Jan. 1983)     (June 1985)
1. Buildings, civil works,
Furnishing                    6.2       (22%)        6.2          6.5          3.4         (14%)
2. Vehicles, equipment,
tractors, spares              9.9       (35%)        9.9          10.8         14.0        (59%)
3. Inicrnational consultant
and staff salaries,           4.6       (17%)        4.6          3.2          3.0         (12%)
overseas training
4. Fertilizer, chemicals,
other farm inputs             4.5       (16%)        1.2          1.6           1.7         (7%)
S. Local staff salaries          -          0%)         4.S          4.6          1.8          (8%)
6. Unallocated                   2.8       (10%)        1.5          1.3          0.0
Total                        28.0      (100%)        28.0         28.0         24.1        (100%)
Note: Figures may not add up because of rounding.
7.       Project Results
No consistent data are available on direct project impact.
8.       Status of Covenants
I.A.  I  P.A.                   Covenant                       Status
1. Loan Effectiveness
6.01(b)    (b)2.02        FGN and OSG to open bank
account for ONPMU with initial      Satisfactory
deposit of N 1.0 million each.
6.01(a)                   Borrower to ratify/authorize        Serious delay in achieving
Subsidiary Loan Agreement           effectiveness conditions
6.01(c)    2.01(b,c,e)    OSG to create BPCCC, ONPMU,
ONTCC
6.01(d)                   OSG to appoint Project Manager
and Chief Accountant
6.01(e)    2.03           OSG to contract consulting firm to
recruit and administer expatriate
staff



2. fituding                                                     l
3.01         2.01           OSG to implement project in       Inadequate, initially.
conformity with administrative,    Improvcd in thc last 3 years.
financial and agricultural
practices; and provide
prompt/adequate
funds/resources required by the
l_____________  project.                                                         l
3.02         2.02(iii)       FGN and OSG to pay quarterly    Ultimately, but not critical.
contributions 3 months in        FGN compensated for OSG
advance, based on approved       shortfalls.
ONPMU's annual budgets.
2.02(ii)       OSO to authorize/guarantee       Never needed in practice due
overdraft facilities for 6 months   to project liquidity.
l___________ expenditures of ONPMU.
2.02.a(v)      OSG to maintain pre-project      Inadequate. Pre-project staff
level of financing in project    was paid with project funds.
area, in addition to project
l__________   requirement.
2.02.a(iv)     OSG to provide OYSICC with    Inadequate. Instead the
funds to meet cash credit        project financed some farmers
requirements of project assisted    with project funds.
farmers.
3.03         2.10(a)        OSG to advance ONPMU by           Inadequate, but not critical.
Sept. 30 each year estimated
subventions to cover next
year's cost of farm
inputs/services subsidies.
2.10(b)        Project to provide inputs and    Inadequate, minimum cost
tractor services to farmers at   recovery.
full cost recovery prices.
3. Procuremnetit
2.03           Fertilizer procurement for the   Project discontinued its direct
project to be separate,          fertilizer procurmment
indentifiable, govemed by        programme at an early stage.
IBRD's approved procurements
procedur.s; to be monitored by
FMG and the Bank to avoid
slippage; within 2 years after
the loan signature FGN and
IBRD to review procurement
procedures.
2.05(b)        ONPM to request promptly
project's fertilizer requirements
to Central Fertilizer Unit of
FMAWR, and to procure
directly other farm inputs.
2.06(a)        OSG to insure project imported    Satisfactory
goods against acquisition and
l__________  transportation hazards.



- 20 -
4. Staffing
2.03 a        OSG to employ a consulting     Delayed selection and hiring
firFn acceptable to the Bank to
recruit expatriate staff.
2.04          OS  to employ experienced     Satisfactory
and qualified consultants in
accordance with principles and
procedurs satisfactory to the
_ _____   Bank.
2.03 b i      OSG to promptly recruit        Recruitment delayed and short
ONPMU ataff, and ensure        of project's requests
MANR seconding of ONPMU
requested staff.
2.11 b        OSG to transfer to ONPMU all   Satisfactory
agricultural extension work in
the project area.
S. Project Review/Monitoring and Evaluation
3.04        2.13          FMA, OSG and IBRD to           Complied with one year delay
review project irnplementation
and recommend follow-up (by
31 December 1984).
2.07 6        OSG to cause implementation    Project recording inadequate.
of adequate project progress,  Accounting statements
monitoring system; accounting    satisfactory.
system identifying loan
financed goods and services;
and auditing scheme acceptable
to the Bank.
9.       Use of Bank Resources
STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FYC9  FY90  FY91    TOTAL
PreappraLsal           3.9                                                                                                 3.9
Appraisal             54.4    0.4                                                                                         54.8
Negotiations                   5.3                                                                                          5.3
Supervisiou                    0.2    2.8    7.7   10.5    7.6    8.2   14.8   13.7    7.2    2.7    0.5    0.6           76.5
Subtotal            58.3    5.9    2.8    7.7   10.5    7.6    8.2   14.8   13.7    7.2    2.7  0.50    0.6    140.5



B. Mission Data
Date          Number of        Man-days      Specializations'      Perfornance         Trcnd           Types of
(mo/year)       persons         in field       represented a/       Rating b/            c/            Problems d/
Identification           10/77           1                2              a
Preappraisal e/
Appraisal                10/78           4               116           a.b,c,d               .
Supcrvision 1            6/80            I                2               c                   1                  2
Supervision 2            10/80           I                I               c                   1                  2
Supcrvision 3            3/81            1                1               c                  I                   I
Supervision4             2/82            2                6              a.b                 3                   1                P
Supervision 5            10/82           2                8               c                  2                   2                P
Supervision6             4/83            3               15             a,b,c                2                   I                P
Supervision 7            9/83            1                4               c                  2                   2               M,O
Supervision 8            3/84            I                4               c                  2                   2                M
Supervision 9            10/84           1                4               c                  2                   2                F
Supervision 10           3/85            3                6              a,b                 2
Supervision II           8/85            I                5               c                  2 fl                .
Supervision 12           2/86            5               35              a,b,c               2 f/
Supervision 13           10/86           2               10              a,f                 2 f/
Supcrvision 14           5/87            3                9              a.b                 2 f/
Supervision 15           11/87   F a1              7      2               a                  2 f/
a/a = Agnculturist b =   nancil Alyst;c=AgriculturAl Economist; d = laguneer;
c = Credit Specialist; f = Operations Assistant.
b/il = problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problcms; 3 = major problems.
c/I = imnproving; 2 = stationary; 3 = deteriorating.
d/F = 1:inancial; M = Manugement; T = Tcchnical; P = Political; 0 = Othcr.
e/ Preparation/preappraisaldone by goverrunent-paid consultants.
fU New Form 590 in use that shows rating for overull status.



- 23 -                           Attachment 1.
The World Bank                                    168 sHtt, N.W.    (203 477.12S
4TUONAIONAL BANK FOR R9EONTftUCTION AND DEVELOMENT    Wuonte". D.C. 204*8  Cabl Ad** s INUI?AFAD
INTONATNAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                U.SA.             C.b  Addm: IDEVAS
February 14, 1991
Mr. J.0. Abe
Program Manager
Oyo State ADP
Saki, Oyo
Nigeria
Dear Mr. Abe,
I am enclosing three copies.of a drafti Project Completion Report
Parts I and III, for Oyo North ADP Ln 1838-UNI prepared by the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program of the Investment Centre. The Bank's new procedures for
preparation of Project Completion Reports require a three part report of whioh
Part II is to be prepared by the Borrower, and parts I and III by the Bank. I
am attaching a copy of & draft letter to the Government describLng the new
procedures and sets out the Borrower's responsibilities.
I am accordingly asking that you have the Part 1I of the Oyo
Agriculture Develolpment Project prepared and submitted to us at the earlLoet.
The PCR for Oyo ADP is alresdy long overdue and whatever you can do to
expedite the preparation of this Part II will be greately appreciated.
Kindeat Regarde,
Le jCaVbell
Sr. Rural Engineer
ecl  Mr. 0. Edache, Director, FDARD, Abuja
Prof. mijindadi, Head, FACU, Ibadan
Dr. T. Turtiainen, Group Leader, Agriculture, RMN
Director General, Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
cc: J. Barrientos



__   _ _  _ __ _  _   .                                                     _  t~~~~~~~~~BRD 1 402
NIGER                      A,   CHAD         maNAdparod by
9            ~~~~Th. eww MI. anWoc&adkl
NIGER                                                               N       for conAWniRfc*gi the'SadMR
'_     \   . ead is a  ilfo the
/       I  I '  Giroop.   rbTh*nomnir0omTt
{      wed and tnd    boRndwoe sho,,n
.J  (                                              ,        on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ this map do nof wnpi on Iho
,   ThWoddgo                                                                                                                                                     KWARA  STATE
my .gmn,en on th. leal /la.
NI-GIE  R  I A                           CAMEAOON   of ay kftory r any
N   I G    E   R   I A                 tin~~~~~~wdonwwwatenoraoceptao-eIof
BENIN   ?                                                       f     F--      wlb.danes
CAMEROON/                                                                                                                                                                                                            lam        /
5  Pwa'                                                      /t                      a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~\ 4 ~~~~~~FOREST RESERVE                     >; J
0 Y' (      |                              0(CHAD
KWARA STA/ TWAEA  STATE
Row' '.-..-.--..--t /.
_ CANRN                                               \                                             7NIGERIA
}~~~~~                                                                                           ~~          'RoDEl Ttoeq                                                                                                                     m
'/LOYO STATE
(                                                          /                                          / /9roC\                                ~~~~~~~~~~~OYO NORTH PROJECT AREA
I   g                                                                      qf                                            / <<,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ EXISTING AGRICULTURAL SERVICES, ROADS AND DAM
4   .                         '                                                   9                           ,    O                                                        e::l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MINIStRI OF AGRICULTURE AND N sTIONAL RESOURCES
t                                                                              (                      /      4                                                           (5    AGRICVLTURAL ASSlSTAhT {Ee e Stall fiol E ozl C'OPII~~~~~-k0  ',-CUTURL SS.lA1 I,-,1111 .   W l-
.   ' ~~~~~~ *    .   O K A P A                                  S                /                                                                     E  a   TRACTOR  Hlr  thG  Uh'T    IA   I   S   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA TO   . A I G   .' .A I     U
FOREST RESERVE                                                                                                                                                                                 . TLO
-Z                       .'T G                                                                                                                                                                                                           OL.  _    _  /  \  ::  EARMSETTDOUENL
\\ IkCOIlZ  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ '- I AOkaW AGRICULTURALCReDITCORFORATION~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGICLTRA CRDI CRPRAIO
B E N I N?  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ _    '                                    r          \                                                                           O   AGRlcuLTuR^Lc^EDITcGRroRAToNeR^NcHLGCALHE^oG ARIER5~~AGICLTUALCREIICORORT;O B.NC LCALE.GL-RI R
B ~ ~ ~         ~           ~          ~          ~         ~          ~        ~         \ IEm N  I N                                                                                       IGRIA OAC OPN
.,M.o                                                                                                     L   OCALGO'YE.NMEh AFEAL.EADQUA.TERS
0                                                                      0   V.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L_AGE(0,0  005
t/                                                                                      Aw YmsOll p oNe-   \                        \                                                                 -LOCAL GOVERhMENT GOUEARIES
It-                                                                                                              STATE B~~~~~~~~~~~~OUNDRI S T E
/_                            EXISTING  AGR;ICUTLRATIONAL SOUhOAR ES
T.                                                                                                                                                    -     "A.  LAMIFALSDRAINFAGRCLE S7MoDNTGA
O                             NS    :                   AdSEV  Co                                                                                                                               C    I   UNT AISlU
-OM/T            F _     0 K I  S O  5  2F
M     ARLES TTLEMENs
OGUN STATE \ j                                                                                                                                                                                                            C
NOVEMBER 19



