Document of
The World Bank FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2383-UNI
NIGERIA
OYO STATE
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 18, 1980
West Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Naira (N)
US$1           - N0.60
241           - US$1.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights
and measures in this report are metric.
1 metric ton       -  0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)    -  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kn)  -  0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - M1arch 31 (until January 1, 1981)
January 1 - December 31 (from January 1, 1981)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP       Agricultural Development Project
APMU      Agricultural Projects Management Unit for West Africa
AISU      Agricultural Inputs Services Unit
APMEPU    Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (KADUNA)
ARMTI     Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ASC       Agro Service Center
ASP       Advanced Service Package
BSP       Basic Service Package
BPCC      Budget and Policy Coordinating Committee
CAPO      Chief Agricultural Planning Officer
FDA       Federal Department of Agriculture
FDRD      Federal Department of Rural Development
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FMA       Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FMF       Federal Ministry of Finance
FSC       Farm Service Center
IAR       Institute of Agricultural Research
IITA      International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
LGA       Local Government Area
LGC       Local Government Council
MANR      Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (Oyo State)
MTIC      Ministry of Trade, Industries and Cooperatives (Oyo State)
MLG       Ministry of Local Government (Oyo State)
MOW       Ministry of Works (Oyo State)
NACB      Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NAFPP     National Accelerated Food Production Program
NGPC      National Grain Production Company
NSPRI     Nigerian Stored Product and Research Institute
NIFOR     Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
NPMC      Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NRRI      National Root Research Institute
NSS       National Seeds Service
NSTDA     National Science and Technology Development Agency
OFN       Operation Feed the Nation
ONPMU     Oyo North Project Management Unit
ONPTCC    Oyo North Project Technical Coordination Committee
OYSG      Oyo State Government
OYSICC    Oyo State Investment and Credit Corporation
THU       Tractor Hire Unit
ULV       Ultra Low Volume
Ui        University of Ibadan
UPE       Universal Primary Education
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NIGERIA
OYO STATE
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
III.    OYO  STATE    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
IV.  THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
A.  Physical Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
B.  Infrastructure and Social Services . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
C.  Socio-Economic Factors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
D.  Land Use, Farm Structure and Farm Enterprises  . . . . . .   11
V. THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
A.  Summary Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
B. Detailed Features            ...                    .14
C. Cost Estimates            . . . . .  .  . . . ..       .      22
D.  Proposed Financing      . . .  . .         . .     .23
E. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
F. Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
G. Accounts and Audits            ...                  .26
H.  Programming and Budgeting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
VI.  TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS  . . . . . . . . .  26
A.  Crop Development...... . . ..                                26
B. Tractor Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
C. Land Development            ..29
D. Feeder Roads . .  . . .. . . . . .   30
E. Water Development            ..30
VII.  MARKET PROSPECTS, MARKETING AND PRICES . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
A. M4arket Prospects          ..31
B.- Marketing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
C.    Prices&.,a..    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD mission consisting of
Messrs. Wilson, Simsolo and SadatjBank) and Tench (Consultant), who
visited Nigeria from October 1 to October 26, 1978 to appraise the project.



-2-
Page No.
VIII.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
A.  Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
B.  Staffing ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   36
C.  Input Distribution and Farm Credit . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
D.  Post Project Development ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   40
IX.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . .    .   41
A.  Financial Implications for Farmers . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
B.  Financial Implications to Government . . . . . . . . . . .   44
X.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ... .       .  .  .    .... .  .  .  .  .  .   .   45
A. Project Benefits ... . . . . .45
B.  Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
C.  Sensitivity and Risk Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
XI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . .. . . . . .   50
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 1    Summary of Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Table 2    Proposed Financing Plan by Expense Category . . . . . . ..  24
Table 3    Increases in production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  29
Table 4    Farm Gate Prices of Inputs and Outputs . .  . . . . . . . ..  34
Table 5    Summary of Farm Budgets . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  42
ANNEX 1 - Agronomy and Farm Budgets
Table 1    Inputs and Estimated Yields per hectare . . . . . . . . ..  52
Table 2    Crop Development Projections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       53
Table 3    Crop production Projections .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  54
Table 4    Summary of Incremental Farm Input Requirements . . . . . ..  55
Table 5    Farm Budget Improved Farm 2 Hectare . . . . . . . . . . . .  56
Table 6    Farm Budget Manual Minimum Tillage 2.5 Hectare . . . . . ..  57
Table 7    Farm Budget Advanced Mechanized Tillage 2.5 Hectare  . . .   58
Table 8    Farm Budget Mechanized Minimum Tillage 5 Hectare  . .    .. .  59
ANNEX 2 - Project Costs and Financing
Table 1    Summary of Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  60
Table 2    Costs of Consultant and Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  61
Table 3    Detailed Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  62
Table 4    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . .  63



-3-
Pag,e No.
ANNEX 3 - Economic Evaluation
Table 1   Economic Value of Incremental Crop Production . . . . . . .  66
Table 2   Economic Valuation of Farm Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . .  67
Table 3   Economic Costs and Benefits ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   68
Table 4    Sensitivity Analysis ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..   69
ANNEX 4 -  Selected Documents and Working Papers in the Project File .  70
CHARTS
20056   - Project Organization
MAPS
IBRD 13708R1 - Nigeria Agricultural Projects
IBRD 14027    -  Existing Agricultural Services, Roads and Dams
IBRD 14028    - Proposed Locations of Administrative Centers,
Farm Service Centers and Roads






NIGERIA
OYO STATE
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested Bank Group
assistance in financing an agricultural development project in the Ifedapo,
Irepo and Kajola Local Government Council (LGC) areas of Oyo State. This
report appraises a project designed to increase the productivity, incomes and
standards of living of the farm families in these areas by providing or
strengthening farm support services, promoting better farming practices and
effecting infrastructural and institutional improvements. Direct beneficiaries
would be about 51,500 farm families, each cultivating about 2.0 ha, who can be
expected to adopt basic improved practices on at least part of their farms,
and about 3,500 participants each cropping from 2.5-5 ha, but as part of
medium and large group farms.
1.02      An Identification Mission visited Oyo State in April 1976 and
reviewed State agricultural prospects and population statistics and, in the
light of recent local government reform, made recommendations on a suitable
zoning structure for agricultural development administration. Following
field study and discussions with both State and Federal officials, full
agreement was reached on location, concept and preparation arrangements
for the project. Subsequently, FGN financed a team of consultants, assisted
by Federal and State counterparts, to prepare a feasibility study. Field
studies were completed in January/NIay 1977 and a final report was submitted
in August 1978.
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
2.01      Nigeria.  The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 States and
covers a total land area of 924,000 km2.  Total 1978 population is estimated
at roughly 81 million, which is nearly 20% of the total for the African
continent. Average GDP per capita (estimated at around US$560 in 1978) is
low and unevenly distributed; income in rural areas is considerably lower.
2.02      Economic Trends.  The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil
sector, which accounts for 30% of GDP, over 90% of export earnings and 80%
of Government revenue. The increase in the oil price in 1973/74 enabled the
Government to embark on a massive investment program and this contributed to
GNP growth averaging 6% per annum between 1973 and 1977. However, growth
was concentrated in those sectors that benefitted in particular from the
rapid expansion in Government expenditure, i.e. infrastructure, education and
large scale manufacturing, and performance of the productive sectors, notably
agriculture, has been disappointing.
2.03      The unprecedented rise in publ4 c spending (Federal current expendi-
ture increased from US$1.1 billion in 1973/74 to US$4.2 billion in 1977/78,
and capital expenditure from US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion), quickly
exhausted the oil-produced internal and external surpluses, and Nigeria faced



considerable fiscal and balance of payments constraints in 1978. The economy
was unable to generate goods and services at the rate demanded, and consequently
the domestic price level rose by over 22% per annum between 1974 and 1978.
Just when severe restrictions on imports and government expenditure started to
effect the economy a combination of a higher level of oil output and 65% rise
in the price of oil during the first half of 1979 substantialiy improved the
country's financial position. Though the oil price is expected to continue to
rise gradually in real terms through 1990, oil production may not exceed the
present level of 2.15 million barrels per day. The overall growth prospects
for the next few years are good, but the longer term outlook largely depends
on the successful outcome of efforts to diversify the economy and in particular
to improve performance in the agricultural sector.
2.04      Sectoral Characteristics. 1/  Agriculture is by far the most im-
portant economic sector in Nigeria; it is estimated that about 61%o of the
population derives its income from agriculture which constitutes 23% of GDP;
5% of total exports and 62% of non-oil exports. Structurally, Nigerian
agriculture is overwhelmingly small scale. Agricultural production depends on
traditional cultivation methods and, in general, farm level efficiency is low.
2.05      Cropping patterns vary within the country's main ecological zones.
In the southern forest zones, where rainfall is bimodally distributed over a
wet season of up to eight months, the agricultural economy is largely based
on tree crops with annual staples providing subsistence and subsidiary income.
In the Guinea and Sudan savannah zones of the north, rainfall is monomodal
within a six-month spread and production is based almost entirely on annual
crops. Between these two zones is an area known as the "middle belt" sup-
porting both southern Guinea and transitional forest savannah vegetation.
Cropping in this zone is a mix of annual and tree crops, though rainfall
quantity and spread are inadequate for successful economic exploitation of
the latter.
2.06      Agricultural production has been disappointing, averaging 1% per
annum from 1970-77, equivalent to less than half the average population
growth. This same period has been characterized by rapidly rising domestic
food prices as demand outstripped supply mainly due to population and income
growth. This has been coupled with a marked decline in traditional agricul-
tural export crops apart from cocoa. During the same period, total exports
(including petroleum) increased from N852 million to N8.2 billion, whereas
importation of food and live animals rose from N50 million to nearly N440
million; and to N814 million in 1978.
2.07      Federal Sector Institutions. 1/  The more important institutions
involved in the project include the Federal flinistry of Agriculture ( TA); the
Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD) and the Agricultural Projects
Ionitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (AP1IEPU) at Kaduna.
2.08      Development Strategy.  The framework for economic policy is set out
in the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1975-80). Although there seems to be
no well defined agricultural sector strategy, the Government is acutely aware
of the need to improve performance in this sector, and to use oil revenues,
1/   See Nigerian Agricultural Sector Review for a full description
(Report 2181-UNI).



- 3 -
a depleting asset, to expand and diversify the economy in which agriculture
continues to be the dominant sector. In the revised Third Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan, a total of 13.0 billion was earmarked for the sector to support
a targeted growth rate of 5%. The program included development of several
major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of modern farming techniques
to smallholders, improved inputs distribution and marketing services and
support for various integrated development projects. Rural development is
being promoted with complementary investments in secondary and feeder roads,
rural electrification, health facilities and other social services. The
forthcoming Four-Year Development Plan (1981-85) is expected to have the same
basic features.
2.09      The Government's main short-term objective is to improve internal
price stability in basic foodcrops and to ensure adequate food supplies to the
rapidly expanding urban centers. Beyond this aim of assured domestic food
supplies, Government's longer term objectives are to create a prosperous and
efficient agricultural sector that could reduce population drift to urban
centers, and to revive the role of Nigeria as an agricultural exporter.
2.10      Implementation of local government reforms has been taking place
since 1977. The reforms are significant, both politically and from a stand-
point of practical rural development, and in effect replace a more traditional
local government administration at subregional level by an elected Local
Government Council (LGC). This reform has been brought about chiefly to
increase popular participation in the conduct of local government. In under-
taking this reform, the Federal Government recognizes the importance of
decentralized administration and the power of local opinion if the long-
term development effort is to be successful. The potential powers and
responsibilities of the LGC are considerable and involve all aspects of
development from agriculture, education and health, to roads and water
supplies. It is government's intention that the LGCs will, in the long term,
control and operate agricultural extension services. Admittedly this will
have an impact on the structure and role of the State Ilinistries of Agricul-
ture but at this stage its extent cannot be determined. Nevertheless this
development has far-reaching potential, even though LGCs are expected, during
the next decade, to face difficulties in securing the services of sufficient
numbers of competent and experienced staff. Furthermore, the lack of properly
coordinated and planned policies and deficiencies in funding are likely to
prevent their smooth development. However, LGCs are a practical reality and
ADPs in Nigeria will where possible provide support for their development.
The proposed project would also actively support this goal (para 8.04).
2.11      Development Constraints.  Undoubtedly, the main short-term develop-
ment constraint in the sector is the lack of effective agriculture support
services.  Produce evacuation is hampered by lack of feeder roads, and many
farmers have to travel long distances to the unevenly distributed and
unreliable sources of farm supplies.
2.12      At present, subsidy levels, the demand for farm inputs (and particu-
larly fertilizer) is high and at times unsatisfied; in many areas this has
encouraged a thriving black market.  However, even within areas of relatively
high consumption of purchased inputs, with traditional farming practicies,
physical yields are still low and it is likely that many farm operations N7ould
be nonviable at economic prices.



- 4 -
2.13      Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector, and present Government policies, inter alia, on input
subsidies are not geared to encourage vigorous private sector participation.
However, given Nigeria's size and massive development program and the existence
of an economic system largely based on private enterprise, Government may wish
progressivelv to divest itself of responsibilities such as input and produce
marketing. This would require the creation of an economic framework appropriate
to profitable involvement of private entrepreneurs in the agriculture service
sector. In addition, a greater effort is required, particularly by the
agricultural research institutions, to improve the analysis of technical,
economic and financial aspects of farming innovations for adaptation to the
different social and ecological conditions of Nigeria; thereby providing an
essential background to a sound input supply policy and the development of
appropriate delivery systems.
2.14      Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the nonagricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which lead people to react against the poor
returns to labor and the drudgery associated with traditional agriculture.
Recent years have seen a marked drift of young people away from rural areas
and a sharp rise in wage rates for hired labor. Ultimately, a prosperous
agricultural sector, capable of reducing this drift, would only be achieved
through application of advanced farming techniques that would provide signifi-
cant increases in income per man-day. This is likely to lead to greater
mechanization and the utilization of modern herbicides and other chemicals that
will increase yields and reduce labor requirement. Eventually larger farming
units, either group or individually operated, are likely to evolve.
2.15      Bank Role and Key Sector Issues.  Total Bank commitments for agri-
culture in 1971-79 are over US$382.0 million and encompass 17 projects (see
Map IBRD 12135R4). The first loans in Nigeria were for the now completed
Western State Cocoa Project (1971, Loan 764-UNI, US$7.2 million) and the
Second Cocoa Project (1974, Loan 1045-UNI, US$20.0 million) which is being
successfully implemented in Oyo, Ondo, Ogun and Bendel States. These were
followed by three integrated agricultural development projects in the north:
Funtua project (1974, Loan 1092-UNI, US$29.0 million), Gusau Project (1974,
Loan 1099-UNI, US$19.0 million), and Gombe Project (1974, Loan 1164-UNI,
US$21.0 million); a Rice Project (1974, Loan 1103-UNI, US$17.5 million) in
Anambra, Imo and Cross River States; a Livestock Project (1974, Loan 1091-UNI,
US$21.0 million); three Oil Palm projects: Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil
Palm Project, Ondo State (1975, Loan 1192-UNI, US$17.0 million), Nucleus
Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Bendel State (1975, Loan 1183-UNI,
US$29.5 million) and Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Imo (1975, Loan 1191-UNI,
US$19.0 million); in 1977 two new integrated agricultural development projects,
Lafia (Loan 1454-UNI, US$27.0 million) and Ayangba (Loan 1455-UNI, US$35
million); and most recently in 1979, two additional integrated agricultural
development projects: Bida Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1667-UNI,
US$23.0 million) and Ilorin Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1668-UNI,
US27.0 million), all of which are located in the important middle belt zone of
Nigeria; and in the southern part of the country the Rivers State Oil Palm
Project (1978, Loan 1591-UNI, US$30.0 million), a Forestry Plantation Project
(1979, Loan 1679-UNI, US$31.0 million); and finally a project for an Agricul-
tural and Rural Management Training Institute (1979, Loan 1719-UNI), US$9.0
million), the first of its kind in Africa. The Projects have had varying



- 5 -
degrees of success. The two cocoa projects were successful during the develop-
ment and establishment stage, and over 40,000 ha of cocoa were replanted of
which latest analysis indicates that 80% is successful. The oil palm projects
are now picking up after early delays in establishing management structures
and problems of lack of delegation of authority by the State Agriculture
Administration. The livestock project has had a disappointing beginning,
mainly because it proved too complex and dispersed to be effectively managed
from the Federal level. Overall management proved weak and difficulties
arose in arranging effective cooperation with NACB. Recently (December 1978),
Government has contracted the management of the project to a consultant firm,
experienced in the field of livestock projects in Nigeria and other parts of
West Africa. Moreover, NACB has taken steps to remove obstacles that had
previously prevented it from meeting its obligations to the project. These
and other proposed actions have resulted in significant operational improve-
ments. The first three integrated agricultural development projects (Funtua,
Gusau and Gombe) have completed about three quarters of their development
period and are considered successful. Studies by the built-in project evalua-
tion units indicate that these projects have achieved significant farmer
impact, and production trends to date indicate more positive agricultural
growth rates than those obtained by non-project farmers. A full analysis of
data collected by APMEPU is now underway, and will be incorporated in two
ongoing Bank sponsored research projects (RPO 671-30/88) which specifically
address farmer response to project recommendations and their effect on farm
level incomes. The analysis would be included in the respective project
completion reports.
2.16      Experience of implementing existing projects has reinforced Bank
concern over a number of critical policy issues, resolution of which is
important for medium and long-term sector development and which must be taken
into consideration in future projects. First: while under present conditions
subsidies on selected on-farm developments may be desirable, the current
policy of subsidies on nondurable inputs (fertilizer, insecticides, herbicides),
irrigation water rates, tractor hire charges, interest rates and other items
is encouraging inefficient resource use, discouraging development of farm
support services by the private sector and straining Federal and State Govern-
ment's fiscal and administrative resources. Second: fertilizer procurement
and distribution has been centralized at the Federal level, resulting in
inefficient supply to farmers and a needless additional burden on the already
overstrained agriculture public administration. Third: State and Federal
funding procedures are not yet satisfactory, and this has created severe
problems for project execution. Fourth: credit policies and the performance
of NACB have not yet provided a viable financial framework for the development
of either small-holders' or commercial agriculture. Finally, the lack of
experienced manpower at managerial, administrative and technical levels is a
major constraint in the planning and implementation of development programs,
often compounded by poor manpower utilization and frequent switching of staff.
2.17      The appraisal, negotiations and supervision of existing agricultural
projects in Nigeria has given the Bank and Government an opportunity for
a continuing dialogue on key sectoral issues. The Government generally
shares Bank concerns though some differences in approach remain, for instance
over the question of continuing input subsidies. Because the issues in
question are politically sensitive, and often administratively difficult to
resolve, it would be unreasonable to expect their prompt and simultaneous



- 6 -
resolution. An agriculture policy-oriented sector mission visited Nigeria in
1978 and has produced additional factual material on which further progress is
possible in the exchange of views between Government and Bank, and the Bank is
currently assisting FGN prepare a food and agricultural plan; this plan will
address many of these and other issues raised in the aforementioned Sector
report. Meanwhile, Bank-assisted projects will necessarily involve special
arrangements in some areas such as Federal and State flow of funds, reimburse-
ment of input subsidies, credit and input procurement (para 5.35), all of
which are deemed essential to successful implementation of such projects.
2.18      To cope with management and administrative constraints, the short-
term solution adopted in Bank-supported projects in Nigeria has been inter-
national recruitment, and the establishment of special project management
units. A long-term solution must necessarily involve the training of Nigerian
management staff and the restructuring of service institutions. The recent
loan (para 2.15) to establish an agricultural and rural management training
institute will complement an already substantial in service training component
for ongoing projects. Concerning Federal and State planning and monitoring
capability, the Government views the Agricultural Projects Ilonitoring, Evalua-
tion and Planning Unit created under the Funtua Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1092-UNI) and expanded under the Ayangba Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1455-UNI) as a first step toward creating a planning and moni-
toring capability for rural development in the Ministry of Agriculture. At
this stage, APMEPU's planning capability is in its infancy and is confined
primarily to project identification, and to providing assistance to State
agricultural planning units. Project preparation is normally undertaken by
consultants, and will continue as such for some years to come.
III.  OYO STATE
3,01      General.  Oyo State was created in its present form as a result of
the administrative reorganization of February 1976, when the former Western
State, was subdivided into the three separate states of Oyo, Ogun and Ondo
(see 14ap IBRD 13708R1). Administratively, Oyo State is divided into 24 Local
Council Government Areas (LGAs), each controlled by a Local Government Council
(LGC).
3.02      Agricultural Sector.  The State's agricultural policy is very broad,
but is primarily aimed at increasing agricultural output with self-sufficiency
in essential foodcrop production as a stated objective. Overall, agricultural
development receives a high priority in the State Government's budgetary
allocations; the average allocation to agricultural sector over the last four
years of the current five year plan has averaged around 8% of total state
budget. However, more recently (1978-79) the share of agriculture in the
states planned capital expenditure has declined from about 12% in 1976-77 to
4% in 1978-79. In the Third Five-Year Plan, total allocations for agriculture
were 178.6 million, of which amount 1130.6 million was earmarked for arable
crop development including farm inputs and infrastructure development. In
the current budget, W23.0 million has been allocated to agriculture. Overall,
performance of this sector has been far from satisfactory; production, as in
most of Nigeria, has stagnated and the State has had to increasingly support
its urban populations with imported food. If immediate measures to raise



- 7 -
foodcrop production levels are not taken, production may in fact begin to
decline from traditional levels. The Oyo North agricultural development
project aims to foster the development of smallholder foodcrop farms in a
zone of high and largely unexploited potential (Chapter IV, paras 4.01-4.04).
3.03      Ilinistry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (IMANR) has eight
divisions: finance and administration, agricultural extension, engineering,
planning, produce inspection, forestry, veterinary and fisheries. In addi-
tion, there are two semi-autonomous units - the Agricultural Inputs Services
Unit (AISU) and the Cocoa Development Unit (CDU), the latter partly funded
under Loan 1045-UNI. Administratively, the state is divided into four
agricultural zones namely Ibadan, Oshogbo, Ilesha and Oyo. Following the
Local Government reform of August 1976, the IfAWR zonal scheme was extended
to cover the newly created LGAs. Subsequently, 24 LGA coordinators have
been appointed with direct responsibility for implementation of functional
projects and sub-projects. Although it is quite clear that Oyo state IANR
intends in the long term to transfer the full control of its agricultural
operations to the LGC's, it is as yet too early to predict the exact nature
and direction of the change. Overall, the State has a fairly large extension
staff (para 8.07), but mainly because of lack of a proper in-service training
(para 3.06); poor logistic support and the absence of well defined work
objectives, the impact of extension work is limited.
3.04      Research.  There is no research station within the project area but
the close proximity of the Universities of Ile-Ife and Ibadan and such insti-
tutions as IITA, the Institute of Agricultural Research and Training (IART)
at MIoor Plantation as well as the National Cereals Research Institute (NCRI)
has resulted in numerous trials being conducted within the project area. In
addition, extensive series of UNDP fertilizer trials are carried out in
adjacent areas of Kwara State, which could provide useful backup information
on yields and fertilizer rates. Recommendations from these and other trials
are, however, rarely disseminated to farmer's level.
3.05      Farm Credit.  The main institutional source of agricultural credit
in the state is the Oyo State Investment and Credit Corporation (OYISCC)
which made almost 954 foodcrop loans in fiscal 1977-78 amounting to about
N1.2 million. 1/ Loans were largely short term, and helped finance purchase
of fertilizers, seeds and hired labor costs (see paras. 8.12-8.16). Limited
amounts of farm credit are also provided by the Cooperative Bank and the
National Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB). Commercial bank lending
is mainly restricted to financing tractor and other farm equipment loans to
the Nigerian Tobacco Company's (NTC) registered tobacco growers.
3.06      Agricultural Training.  The State considers IART as its training
arm. The Institute which is administered by the University of Ile-Ife
provides training for all middle-level HANR agricultural staff. For its
senior staff (Agricultural Officers) the state relies on graduate courses
offered by the Universities of Ibadan (UI) and Ile-Ife (UIFE). Junior level
staff are trained at the two Agricultural Schools at Akure (Ondo State) and
at tIoor Plantation (Ibadan). Courses cover a wide range of subjects, but
1/   OYSICC's total credit disbursement during the same period (1977-78)
amounted to N4.5 million with 4,194 loans.



- 8 -
there is an urgent need for well-administered on-the-job training, and
opportunities for further specialization need to be provided. Training for
basic level agricultural staff (field overseers, agricultural instructors)
was provided at the Ilesha Farm Institute which also trained interested
farmers. Vocational training, especially in agricultural machinery is provided
at the MANR'~. Agricultural Machinery Center at Fashola as well as the Oyo
trade center located at Oyo.
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
4.01      General.  The project area (see Map IBRD 14027) covers some 12,310
km2or 32% of Oyo state and includes 3 Local Government areas (Ifedapo, Irepo
and Kajola) in the north of the state. This area is primarily utilized for
subsistence food crop production at a low level of yields, with cash cropping
being limited to a few well defined areas of tobacco and isolated patches of
cocoa. Since the States other three zones (excluding Oyo North) are mainly
cocoa growing areas, the project area was selected in order to balance food
crop production in the state with cash crops; thereby developing an under-
utilized potential.
4.02      Topography and Soils.  Northern Oyo State is characterized by gently
rolling plains rising from some 200 m in the southwest to 500 m in the north-
east. The area is underlain by basement complex acidic rocks associated with
quartzite outcrops and shales. Locally granites and syenites give rise to
inselbergs which break the overall flat outlook of the landscape. Average
slopes are from 2-6% with the flatter topography and consequently poorer
drainage in the north. The vast majority of the soils in the area are slightly
acid loamy sands underlain by sandy clay loams or sandy clays. The cation
exchange capacity, total exchangeable bases, and nutrient status are all low.
Consequently, the agricultural potential is only fair and with existing
techniques most of the soils cannot stand continuous cropping, however, there
are localized patches of stronger soils, many of which are underutilized due
to lack of access (para. 4.05).
4.03      Climate.  Annual mean and total rainfall varies from 1,100 mm in
the north to 1,200 mm in the south, although local topography effects do
influence the totals.  Most of the precipitation occurs between March and
October and is only partially bimodal with a limited drier period in July/
August in the south, which is even less marked in the north. Rainfall
analysis 1/ reveals excellent possibilities for single cropping. However,
a long season followed by a short season crop (possibly interplanted) is a
distinct possibility.
4.04      Vegetation.  The area lies within the broad savannah transition zone
separating the southern rain forests from the northern semi-arid Sudan zone.
Vegetation is generally derived savannah with variations in cover closely
linked with edaphic conditions and particularly soil depth and drainage.
1/   For details, see Project File Cl.



- 9 -
B. Infrastructure and Social Services
4.05      Roads and Communications.  As there is no rail, air or river
transport, the project area is totally dependent oln the road system, which
consists of 341 km Federal (Trunk A) roads, 86 km of State (Trunk B) roads,
834 km of LGC roads and about 2,000 km of small village tracks and footpaths.
The condition of roads in the project area is extremely poor, even the main
federal road from Basi to Kishi is in a state of utter disrepair and during
the rainy seasons portions of it are almost impassable. Although maintenance
of the main road network is vested in the respective authorities, there is
little evidence of effective maintenance and the poor road system can be
considered the greatest single constraint to development.
4.06      Power, Water Supply, Health Services.  Rural electrification in
the project area is undertaken through Federal and State Government pro-
grams. While three major towns - Shaki, Ago-Are and Illero - are already
served with electricity, contracts have recently beeen awarded for supplying
power to four other townships. The majority of the area's population relies
for water supplies on streams or wells. The quality of most rural water
supplies, particularly from private wells, is poor, as they often rely for
recharge on direct surface runoff. The Oyo State Water Corporation has
primary responsibility for developing the rural water supply system in the
project area. The other organization dealing with this aspect is the Ogun-
Oshun River Basin Authority (OORBA) which plans to develop the Ogun-Ofiki
River basins. Oyo State Water Corporation has built a large dam and treatment
plant to serve the town of Shaki. Health services and facilities, comprising
three Government hospitals, 12 maternity centers and 20 dispensaries are
limited. There is a Baptist hospital at Shaki and a rural health center has
just been constructed at Igboho. The most common endemic diseases are
malaria, dysentery, bilharzia and guinea worm.
C. Socio-Economic Features
4.07      Population statistics throughout Nigeria are unreliable.  The 1973
census has been formally abandoned by Government, and whatever official
figures are available are derived from the 1963 census. The present report
however recognizes that the 1963 Census somewhat overenumerated Nigeria's
southern population; and therefore in estimating the project areas future
population (1985), a medium population growth rate variant of 2.5% per annum
was used. On the foregoing basis, current (1978) population estimates for each
LGA are: Ifedapo - 207,000; Irepo - 235,000, and Kajola - 168,000 giving a
total area population of 600,000. Of which 85% or about 510,000 can be
considered as rural. Given that the "average" farm family is made up of 6.5
persons, there are an estimated 79,000 farm families in the project area. In
1985, the total projected population for the project area would be 727,000.
4.08      The project area lies in the heart of Yorubaland, and Yorubas form
the main ethnic group, though small groups of Haussa tradesmen and Fulani
pastoralists dwell in and around several of the townships. The Yorubas share
a broad common culture and language, but historicaly comprise a number of
semi-autonomous kingdoms which developed individual subcultures and dialects.



- 10 -
In common with much of Yorubaland, settlement is significantLy urban oriented,
with large numbers of farmers living in a nucleated urban environment; the
1963 census recorded nearly 60% of the population residing in townships of
over 20,000 inhabitants, though much of this total is accounted for by the
rural towns of Shaki, Irepo, Igbeti, Kajola, Illero, and Ifedapo. Average
density of the farming population is estimated at 50/km2but _.is varies
throughout the project area, for example in the Ifedapo LGA mainly due to the
forest area, average population density is as low as 38/km2. In general, the
agricultural population of the area is stable; outward migration is minimal,
and limited to the drift of young males to urban areas. There is some seasonal
inward migration mainly from the north and neighboring Republic of Benin.
4.09      Land Tenure.  Under the new Land Use Decree promulgated in March
1978, authority and control over all agricultural lands has been vested with
the respective local governments. The management of such lands would be
carried out with the help of Land Allocation Advisory Committees to be
established by the State Governor. Although in some cases such Committees
have already been established, it is as yet too early to predict how effec-
tively the provisions of the new Law would be administered. This notwith-
standing, its provisions are not expected to prove detrimental to the project
implementation, and if anything it is likely to facilitate procedures for
obtaining land titles which could serve as collateral for farm credit.
This is especially significant for the advanced farmers who because of their
relatively higher investment credit needs, may seek credit from commercial
banks which may want to enforce more rigid collateral policies (para 8.16).
Since for agricultural land, the existing ownership patterns and tenurial
patterns are expected to continue under the customary system for some time,
the existing system is discussed in the next paragraph.
4.10      The basic pattern of land ownership and usage in the project area
has been the so-called communal land tenure system, under which traditional
leaders are considered to be the custodians of all land in their areas of
jurisdiction, and are empowered to grant usufruct to individuals/families.
Theoretically, all lands could be repossessed by the community acting through
the chief and traditional elders on the death or departure of the usufruc-
tuaries. In practice, however, lands are generally inheritable through the
family. At the discretion of the head of the family, land can also be divided
among family members, or leased out to other families or even to strangers;
however, sale of farmland is traditionally frowned upon, or indeed prohibited.
To summarize, for all practical purposes communal ownership is effectively
exercised only in respect of vacant, virgin or undistributed land, and
an individual or family, once granted a piece of land, would usually enjoy
de facto security of tenure. The need for proper demarcation of holdings to
facilitate obtaining loans and ensure security of tenure has encouraged more
formal holding arrangements. Proof of title can take the form of either a
"Certificate of Occupancy" or a "Right of Occupancy". The procedure for
obtaining the former is time consuming as it involves a survey by a chartered
surveyor, and though a few individuals have recently obtained Certificates of
Occupancy the amount of land affected is extremely limited and mainly urban.



- 11 -
D. Land Use, Farm Structure and Farm Enterprises
4.11     Land Use.  There is no recent land use survey of the project area;
the only reliable survey is the one undertaken in 1976 by the Land Resources
Division of the Ministry of Overseas Development. 1/ This survey, however,
basically emphasizes the potential for land use, and therefore, cannot be
used to interpret the existing land use patterns. The other source of
information is the 1977 Oyo State Rural Agricultural Sample Survey, and the
1970-72 Western State Farm Management and Resources Survey. In view of the
varied and often differing land statistics, it should be appreciated that
figures for farm sizes, cropping patterns, farm income, are present "best
estimates". However, during implementation, it is expected that the proposed
project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (para. 5.21) would provide more satis-
factory information on this aspect. Meanwhile, the project design would
retain sufficient flexibility to take account of such findings.
4.12      Existing information, including air photo interpretation, indicates
that around 307,000 ha (about 25% of the project area) are cropped within
a system of shifting cultivation, the fallow ratio ranging from 1:1 to 1:2
(four cropping years as against 4 to 8 fallow years). Assuming that the
expansion in area has at least kept pace with the population increase (average
2.5% per annum) and that the traditional average fallow periods have declined,
the area presently cultivated in any one year is about 180,000 ha. When set
against the estimated farming population (510,000), the average holding size
would be about 2.0 ha per farm family (6.5 persons/family).
4.13      Farm Structures.  All available information confirms that the great
majority of project area farms are the relatively small subsistence type.
While farm sizes range from 0.5 ha to 5.0 ha, the average holding is 2.0 ha.
Few farms are either larger or smaller than the mean. Virtually all of the
farms in the project area are owner-cultivated. The few larger farms mostly
utilize commercial or government tractor services, and either grow tobacco
or some other cash crops. Group farming (average 50 ha per group) is fairly
widespread, and the MANR as well as OYSICC credit records show slightly over
100 such farmers' groups.
4.14      Farm Labor and Income.  The average family contributes over 80% of
the total farm labor input. While most of the heavy field work is undertaken
by men, the women contribute towards harvesting, food processing, and market-
ing. Traditional groups based on mutual aid exist, but their use is not
widespread. The "average" farm family probably numbers 6.5 persons who
provide on average about 1.5 man-days of labor per work day. The rather low
labor availability per family mainly reflects the fact that with UPE, child
labor is restricted. Assuming that the average work days per month are 20,
the annual family labor availability is 360 man-days. Of this, about 50%
is used on productive farm work and 22% on crop processing and marketing,
the rest is utilized in other domestic activity. Prior experience, field
observations and independent farm management studies in the area, show that
under traditional agricultural practices, an average farm family can cultivate
about 1.8 ha even during the peak labor demand period. Labor profiles (Project
1/   Land Resources Study 23.  "Soils of the Western State Savannah in Nigeria"
(3 volumes) 1976.



- 12 -
Working File C1) for the improved practices shows that the average farm family
would have sufficient labor for farming about 2.0 ha, without any substantial
need for additional hired labor.
4.15      Existing average farm income from the typical 2.0 ha smallholdings
in the projec  area are around N770 including some off-farm income (para. 9.02).
This income is clearly insufficient to fully meet the farmers nutritional and
other basic needs, and during the slack season the men seek off-farm employment.
Wages in the project area vary by location approximately reflecting the value
of alternative real income earning activities available to the laborers. For
example, while it would be possible for an unskilled male laborer during the
peak season to earn up to N4 per man-day, or even more, especially on non-farm
work such as periodic construction jobs, during the slack season at times
wages approximate labors 'reservation price,' for xwhich the Government official
wage of N2.0 per man-day is a reasonable index.
4.16      Crop Production.  The bulk of agricultural production comes from
manually cultivated rainfed crops. The growing season of over 200 days
permits a sequential cultivation of a wide range of crops with differing
growing periods. Almost two-thirds of the crops are grown during the first
rainfall cycle (M4arch-June), and since the duration of the rainy season is
relatively short, the late crop is often relay cropped. Mlixed cropping is
less widespread than in other areas of Nigeria and a consistent pattern of
intercropping or even sequential cropping is rarely found. This is due mainly
to the bias in favor of cash crop such as maize and yams and the absence of
traditional mixed crops like cotton, millet, and groudndnuts. While planting
starts with the earliest maturing crops - early maize and continues with
sorghum, the late maturing crops, cassava and yams, are planted rather in-
differently in the first or second rainy season. The acreages eventually
planted to sole or intercrops are however as much functions of opportunity,
and seasonal labor availability as of prior planning. On average, probably
around 60% of crops are however planted sole, the balance falling within an
intercropped or relay mixture of 2 to 4 crops. The principal annual crops are
maize, cassava and yams, representing about 76% of the cropped area. Sorghum
is the next important crop, occupying about 8% of the cultivated area. A wide
range of minor crops (cowpeas, okra, vegetables etc.) are often intercropped
or grown as catchcrops. The main cash crop is tobacco, which is cultivated
by 3,500 farmers who market their produce through the Nigerian Tobacco Company
(NTC).
4.17      The traditional farming system based on shifting cultivation helps
maintain fertility and soil structures. The bush fallow rotation usually
comprising 3-6 years of cropping is followed by a period of natural fallow
(6-10 years). Cultivation practices include the predominant use of hand
tools and implements while tractor services are limited and are mainly used
by large group or commercial farmers. Use of other modern farm inputs is also
extremely limited. For example during the 1977-78 only 1,300 m/tons of
fertilizer and 7.2 m/ton of improved maize seed was distributed in the project
area.



- 13 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
5.01      Project objectives, which are in full accord with Federal and State
Government policies (para 2.08), are to increase food production and farm
incomes through improving the productivity of the land and labor of some
55,000 farm families, most of whom are cultivating approximately 2 ha. The
project would help to develop the considerable food productivity reserve,
which lies untapped in the traditional rainfed sector in the northern part of
the state. It would tie in with the overall agricultural development strategy
of OYSG in that the southern parts of the state are potentially more suitable
for tree crop-production (Chapter IV). The project to be implemented during
the five-year period 1980/81 through 1985/86 would include:
Farm and Crop Development
-    increasing production of the major crops grown by smallholders
on about 33,000 ha through the introduction of a Basic Service
Package (BSP) involving improved farming practices, strengthened
extension services and provision of improved seeds, fertilizer,
crop protection measures and improved manual and mechanized
techniques including some expansion of both state and private
tractor services;
-    introducing a more Advanced Service Package (ASP) based on
techniques of weed control including minimum tillage, which
due to the advanced nature of the techniques required would
be limited in area to npo more than 12,500 ha;
-    establishing a farm management service with planning capability
to assist group and individual farmers in their operations;
-    conducting trials to test the introduction of new technology
and farming practices;
-    providing support to the state seed multiplication service and
organizing outgrowers to ensure an adequate supply of seeds
and planting material;
-    assisting with land clearing through the rental of hand
operated winches and other aids to light bush clearing;
-    establishing a reliable and efficient farm input supply system.
Civil Works
-    constructing 550 km of new feeder roads, improving 250 km of
existing roads and maintaining these roads for three years
until they are handed over to Local Government;
-    constructing 40 small to medium dams;



- 14 -
constructing 300 wells; and
constructing project offices, workshops, farm building,
stores, staff houses, and 17 Farm Service Centers.
Institutional Support
-    providing for a management structure with the required technical
and administrative staff, logistical support and funds to
implement the project, evaluate project progress, and provide
guidelines for future projects;
-    providing integrated in-service and formal training schemes for
all levels of staff together with such courses for farmers as
may be necessary;
-    assisting the Agricultural Input Services Unit (AISIJ) to operate
an efficient input supply and distribution system.
Consultancy
-    assisting MANR in startup operations for the project;
-    providing technical consultancy on agricultural management
and introduction of new techniques;
-    carrying out a hydrogeological survey of the project area;
-    assisting in establishing management training; and
-    evaluating a potential tax base for LGAs.
B. Detailed Features
5.02      Farm and Crop Development.  Project intervention would improve cul-
tivation practices on an estimated 33,000 ha farmed by some 51,500 small-
holders who would benefit from the Basic Service Package (BSP), and on 12,500
ha farmed by 3,500 farmers participating under the Advanced Service Package
(ASP).
5.03      Basic Service Package (BSP).  It is difficult to estimate farmer
response on a project of this nature, but drawing on experience of similar
ongoing projects in Nigeria, it is estimated that the majority of farmers
estimated at 70% of the total would participate to some degree. The majority
would however not follow all the crop recommendations, but only those crop
packages with particular appeal to the individual. Under field conditions
the proper application of all aspects of a crop package takes time and the
main immediate benefits would undoubtedly result from improved attention to
timeliness of planting, weeding and harvesting, correct planting densities
coupled with modest inputs of inorganic fertilizer, pesticide, and improved
and dressed seed. Local research results indicate that significant yield
responses can be obtained for maize, yams, cassava and cowpeas which account
for some 78% of the total cropped area. Details of inputs and estimated
yields are at Annex 1, Table 1.



- 15 -
5.04      The main impact of the BSP would be channelled through an efficient
and widespread distribution network including 20 farm service centers (FSC),
and a greatly strengthened general extension service. The number and extent
of FSC coverage have been determined on the basis of existing land use popula-
tion densities and future expansion into new areas. Each center approxi-
mately serves an area with a radius of 8 km, a criteria that has proved
adequate on ongoing ADPs. It is expected that on completion of the BSP
portion of the project, basic improved husbandry would be practiced on 8,000
ha of maize (13% of the total area under maize), 10,000 ha of yams (25%),
12,000 ha of cassava (30%), 3,000 acres of sorghum (20%), and 1,500 acres of
cowpeas relay cropped with naize (30%). These estimates of uptake are based
on a balanced assessment of the attractiveness of the individual crop packages
taking account of relevant labor constraints and experience on ongoing
projects. The increment in marketed surplus from BSP farms excluding "without
project" production, and after deductions for seed, storage losses and farm
family consumption, is expected to reach approximately 17,000 tons of maize;
800 tons of sorghum, 24,000 tons of yam and 39,000 tons of cassava. Detailed
estimates of incremental production are shown at Annex 1 Tables 2 and 3.
Although production projections have been confined to the major crops due to
their overriding importance in the area's cropping patterns, in practice the
project would address a range of cropping problems with the aim of promoting
as wide a spectrum of crops as practically feasible. The project would
increase the number of extension workers in order to reduce the existing
field staff farm ratio from 1:2,000 to 1:600 and increase efficiency by
training existing staff and improving logistical support. The increase in
extension staff would be mainly through redeployment of underutilized staff
(para 8.07) and further training of lower level extension agents. Even so,
the exact staffing ratio must be viewed with considerable flexibility until
such time as the demands and needs of the farmer are properly evaluated. The
extension service would be administered through the headquarter unit and
through three area centers conforming with LGA's.
5.05      Advanced Service Package (ASP) would be designed for group and
individual farmers displaying the management aptitude to handle more sophis-
ticated techniques and cropping system. ASP would introduce advanced systems
incorporating chemical weed control and minimum tillage on both a mechanized
and manual smallholder basis. This would allow increased cropping areas and
yields and thus would increase incomes, reduce drudgery and make farming a
more rewarding occupation. It is fully recognized that minimum tillage
techniques have not as yet been adopted by Nigerian farmers apart from a
few isolated instances of chemical weed control. It is the purpose of this
project and that of Ilorin and Ekiti-Akoko to attempt to establish these
techniques on a wider basis. Even so, it is estimated that only 17% of the
improved cropping area of the project would be affected and this would take
place from year 3 to year 5 of the project.
5.06      Minimum tillage, which combines minimum soil disturbance with a
cover of plant debris is an innovation which promises to provide the stable
agricultural system which has been lacking to date. Under the systems pro-
posed, herbicides would be judiciously introduced in combination with both
mechanical and hand cultivation. This would be followed by adoption of full
minimum tillage techniques, including both direct planting in uncultivated
soil, and the use of pre- and post-emergent herbicides for complete weed
control.



- 16 -
5.07      A mechanized minimum tillage approach would involve an extension
of existing tractor hire units (THU) but would require lower powered tractors
than a conventional mechanical tillage scheme, and would reduce wear and tear
and hence maintenance costs for the tractor fleet. Although minimum tillage
is being introduced, in view of Government commitments, some conventional
mechanical cultivation would continue and soil conservation works would be
designed on all the larger cleared areas. Nevertheless, the eventual aim
would be to promote minimum tillage to the utmost once the techniques of large
scale application were thoroughly tested locally (para 6.05). These systems
would be introduced within the framework of sound rotations and husbandry
practice, and development would be supervised by a specially trained team of
management advisors and extension workers (para 5.24).
5.08      The adoption of manual minimum tillage for the smallholder hinges
on the practicability of herbicide application using controlled droplet appli-
cators in which the amount of liquid carrier and herbicide is kept to a minimum
(less than 12 litres/ha) thus eliminating transportation of large quantities
of water which would be impractical. It also depends on very thorough training
of both farmers and extension staff in well tested fields techniques. This
is essential, as misapplication could result in damage to standing crops.
However, current research work indicates that these problems can be overcome
through field tests, training, and efficient organization.
5.09      Crop development projections have been based on the assumption that
the area cultivated per family would show some increase due to elimination of
labor peaks and the formation of farmer groups. A total of 3,500 farmers on
some 10,000 ha are expected to utilize these techniques and with the reduction
in labor demands, it is expected that this area would increase by some 2,500
ha (0.7 ha per family) over a six year period. Progress would be phased and
clearing would take place as farmers find they can cope with a larger acreage.
This would not entail much extra labor as the present demands for clearing to
allow for fallow will be eliminated and project assistance will be given to
improve efficiency of hand stumping (para 6.11). The eventual aim would be to
promote minimum tillage over the whole 12,500 ha, but initially it would be
confined to areas planted to maize and cassava and with a late season crop of
cowpeas following the maize in one year in three. Projected incremental
production from ASP is estimated at full production to total some 12,000 tons
of maize, 19,000 tons of cassava and 500 tons of cowpeas. Crop development
and production projections are at Annex 1, Tables 1, 2 and 3.
5.10      Tractor Services.  The existing subsidized tractor service currently
operated by MANR would be transferred to the projects commercial services
division so that it can be run as an efficient and cost effective commercial
service. In order to ensure support for BSP and ASP farmers, the project
would procure some new and replacement units. The main project workshop at
Shaki would conduct major repairs at cost, while minor repairs and maintenance
would be carried out at the main Agro-Service centers which are proposed to
be taken over by the project (para 5.13). Additionally private operators
would be encouraged to buy tractors and would receive both training and
assistance, including maintenance, from the project. Cost and performance
records would provide a firm basis for determining viable charges for con-
tracting. Farmers would be charged for tractor services at rates equivalent
to an efficient commercial service resulting in full cost recovery and
assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.



- 17 -
5.11      Applied Research.  Three existing government farms near Shaki, Ilero
and Kishi would be taken over by the project. Crop trials conducted on these
stations would improve the coverage and would be linked to the national
trials program. In addition, the stations would be used for developing
systems appropriate to local conditions including the testing of appropriate
technology and machinery. Special attention would be given to practical
farm trials and demonstrations of low horse power tractors and appropriate
implements suitable for minimum tillage techniques. This program would be
carried out in close liaison with the Engineering department of IITA.
5.12      Seeds and Planting Material.  Where applicable crops grown on the
three farms would generally be used for seed, such production would be limited
and targets set in conjunction with the National Seed Service. However,
bulking of improved plant material for yam and cassava programs will require
substantial areas and the sheer bulk of this material indicates that to reduce
transport it should be produced within the LGAs. Although, arable areas under
the control of the project will be essential, every effort would be made to
set up viable local seed producer associations producing seeds and vegetative
planting materials. For this purpose, an appropriate inspection and certifi-
cation system would be introduced by the project in conjunction with the
national and state seed service.
5.13      Farm Input Supplies.  The project would provide the necessary input
supplies to farmers through its Commercial Services Division (para 8.05).
Input distribution would be through 20 FSCs, of which 17 would be constructed
under the project (para 5.20) and three existing ASCs, currently operated by
AISU, would be taken over by the project. Map IBRD 14028 shows tentative
locations of the proposed centers (excluding the three existing ASCs).
Whereas currently, an annual 1,300 tons of fertilizer is used in the project
area, by project year 5, this is expected to increase to nearly 9,000 tons.
Likewise, annual sale of herbicides and insecticides for seed dressing and
protection of stored grain would reach NO.7 million by PY5. In order to
improve on-farm storage facilities, the project will assist (by providing
materials) in construction of such stores. Other items such as tools,
planters and sprayers will also be available to farmers, at the FSCs.
Credit, both in cash and kind would be made available to the needy farmers.
Details of the credit arrangements are given in paras. 8.16-8.17.
Civil Works
5.14      Roads.  The existing road network in the area totals 1,260 km of
which 340 km are Federal roads, 86 km state roads and 834 km Local Government
roads and tracks the latter serving as feeder roads to the Federal and State
network.  The poor condition of most of the roads within the project area is
probably the major constraint to agricultural development. The problem is
being further aggravated by the equally poor condition of the arterial links
between the project area and the rest of the State. The main reason for the
unsatisfactory state of the roads is sheer lack of maintenance. Although the
Local Governments have had a recent infusion of new plant and ancillary
equipment, virtually no provision has been made for repair and maintenance.
More important at present, Local Governments lack technical expertise in plant
organization and operation. Maintenance of Federal and State roads also
appears to be practically nonexistent, and even though responsibility for



- 18 -
these roads is outside the scope of the project, their proper maintenance is
considered to be vital to the project. Therefore during negotiations it was
agreed that by June 30, 1980 FGN would furnish to the Bank its plans for
rehabilitating the Federal Iseyin-Sheki road.
5.15      The project's objective would be to provide an all-..Cather feeder
road system to serve both areas of existing development and those with high
agricultural potential. New roads would follow ridge alignment to improve
drainage, reduce construction and maintenance costs and would be surfaced
with laterite, which is in abundant supply throughout the area. Using these
criteria, a program of 550 km of new roads and 250 km of improved roads has
been identified (see map IBRD 14028). These roads would be maintained by the
project for 3 years after construction, prior to handover to the respective
LGC. The LGC would be closely involved in all stages of planning and construc-
tion but thorough training and guidance would be necessary to ensure a smooth
and effective transition of responsibility for maintenance.
5.16      Relatively high labor costs and seasonal rural labor shortages rule
out labor intensive construction techniques. Currently, existing governmental
and private companies are either not interested or not in a position to cope
with the construction and maintenance required for the program. It is there-
fore, proposed to follow the successful practices of ongoing agricultural
projects and establish a project-controlled and operated construction unit
consisting of 2 bulldozers, 4 motorgraders, 2 vibratory rollers, 3 motorized
scrapers, 1 wheeled dozer together with ancillary equipment. In addition to
road construction, the unit would also construct dams during the dry season
when conditions are optimal.
5.17      Road and water supply maintenance will only be effective after LGCs
assume responsibility and if adequate funds are included for this in the LGC
budgets. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that OYSG would
review annually with the LGCs and the project the road and water facility
maintenance and staff training requirements (para 5.26) and that OYSG would
provide the LGCs in advance with adequate funds for this purpose. The
estimated annual road maintenance cost in the project area would be about
N160,Q00 (in 1980 terms).
5.18      A central workshop would be constructed at Shaki to service and
repair all plant and vehicles and equipment. This would have the support of
mobile field units and radio links to keep plant and vehicle down-time to a
minimum. A comprehensive store of spare parts for plant and vehicles would be
maintained to overcome supply problems. The project workshop would be located
and designed to ensure long-term support to LGCs for hiring and repairing
plant.
5.19      Water.  Water supply is critical in most parts of the project during
the dry season. This is partly reflected in the self-help efforts to overcome
this problem. There are many private wells throughout the area as well as
a small number of dams. Miost supplies, however, are unreliable and are
generally polluted through surface recharging. To help overcome the problem,
it is proposed to build 28 small dams, each of about 50,000 m3 capacity,
and 12 medium sized dams, of about 100,000 m3 each. These would serve the
larger centers of population not already covered by existing or proposed



- 19 -
services. To cover the needs of small villages and hamlets where dam con-
struction would be impracticable or uneconomic, it is proposed to sink 300
wells using hand-operated rigs. Both dams and wells would have measures
incorporated to minimize pollution (para. 6.17 and 6.18). Livestock watering
facilities and simple low cost water treatment plants would be installed at
all dams. The LGCs would eventually maintain these facilities and training
and funds would be provided (para. 5.17). In addition, a hydrogeological
survey would be carried out in order to provide information for future cost
effective water programs (para 6.16). The dam and well program would, however,
not be contingent on the outcome of the hydrogeological study.
5.20      Buildings.  A major building program would be required.  This would
include staff housing offices, farm service centers, stores, a workshop and
seed farm buildings. The project's administrative center would be at Shaki,
with secondary centers at Kishi and Oke-Iho, all being Local Government Admin-
istrative centers. Building construction would be done by local contractors
through a system of local competitive tendering satisfactory to the Bank.
Building works would be supervised by the project building unit which would
also be responsible for building maintenance. The project would construct 16
senior, 28 intermediate, 16 junior staff houses, plus 17 Farm Service Centers
and contingent offices, buildings and stores (detailed specifications are in
Project File C2).
5.21      Evaluation.  The lack of quantified information on the area creates
a particular need for an effective Evaluation Section to provide a dual service
to project management as a data collection, analysis and advisory unit, and to
Government and donor agencies as a source of information for effective project
supervision and impartial assessment of performance. During the start-up year
experienced staff from the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit (APMEPU) in Kaduna would conduct an initial 'thumbnail' farm
survey of the project area. Thereafter, the evaluation section would undertake
a more formal baseline survey, to provide precise definition of the farming
systems practiced in the different agro-ecological zones of the project and
to provide information on pre-development crop yields. A detailed evaluation
would also be conducted on existing MANR group farming schemes in the area.
A continued survey of crop yields would be maintained during implementa-
tion, but priority attention would be given to evaluation of the Advanced
Service Package, which involves heavy expenditure and which can only be
justified by positive evidence that real long-term benefits are materializing.
The Evaluation Section would maintain a central data bank of basic planning
and progress information, and would also keep a detailed record of management
decisions and reasons for any departure from original proposals. The Section
would receive technical support in survey design and in methodology, process-
ing and analysis of large-scale evaluation surveys from APMEPU and would
maintain close liaison with State Evaluation Units, the National Institute of
Social and Economic Research and with the University of Ibadan (para. 3.04).
5.22      Staff Development.  The project itself would be a massive training
effort in improved agricultural methods; communication and rural administra-
tion and would provide a sound basis for on-the-job experience and training
under competent senior staff, where the objectives of management and farm
development would be clearly laid out. Experience to date shows conclusively



- 20 -
that, under such conditions, Nigerian staff have performed most effectively
and learned rapidly by experience. This in itself, however, is not suffi-
cient, and the project would supplement on-the-job experience with formal
staff development programs.
5.23      TecL.nical Training.  Specialized training courses would be estab-
lished to train all levels of staff in the agronomic and technical needs of
the project.  It would be agreed with the State that the project would be
authorized to conduct its own training of Extension Assistants who would be
employed by the project.  This grade of staff would later (in the post-project
period) be considered for formal training and induction as Agricultural
Assistants.  In addition, short courses would be developed for agricultural
staff, mechanics, bookkeepers, storemen, salesman, etc. Some selected staff
might be sent overseas for specific technical training in fields where courses
are not available in Nigeria.
5.24      Staff Development and Management Training.  One of the fundamental
problems of continuity of project activities relates to the dearth of mana-
gerial, as opposed to technical, background among Nigerian agricultural staff.
The problem must be approached by a combination of formal training and guided
on-the-job experience. Much will depend on the numbers and caliber of staff
the state is prepared to second to the project. The senior Staff Development
officer would carry out an initial inventory of existing and required staff
and training needs. And subsequently, work closely with project technical
managers to prepare staff development programs for individual Nigerians in
key positions, and for groups of staff at medium and lower levels. Consul-
tants would assist in preparation of this program and in checking on annual
progress. It is anticipated that project staff would be enrolled in courses
at the proposed Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute to be
located at Ilorin in neighboring Kwara State. Overseas courses in manage-
ment fields as in technical subjects, would be considered where no comparable
Nigerian course existed, but should be limited to relatively short courses
with immediate practical relevance to the staff member's responsibilities.
5.25      Farmer training would be carried out through group meetings using
audio-visual aids. Practical on-farm demonstrations would play an important
role in farmer training. The training section with assistance from outside
consultant, would help prepare teaching materials including a reference manual
and technical films to demonstrate cropping techniques for use by extension
staff.
5.26      Training Administration.  The senior training officer attached to
APMEPU would work in close collaboration with the Oyo North Project Management
Unit (ONPMU) in developing and monitoring new training techniques.  The ONPMU
Staff Development officer would, apart from project training, also be responsi-
ble for working with state officials in developing adequate training programs
outside the project area, in anticipation of an. expansion of the project to
other parts of the state at a later date. He would work closely with the LGCs
in the project area to develop training programs for LGC staff, particularly
in areas related to project activities, e.g. road and water facility main-
tenance and administration. The project would utilize the existing facilities



- 21 -
at Fashola and Ilesha Institutes (para. 3.06) to provide the basic training
infrastructure required to support the training program.
5.27      Consultant Services.  The project would provide OYSC with 36 man-
months of consultant services to assist MANR and ONPMU in specific areas
where local skills are not available, or where short-term supplementation
is required. Specifically, the consultants would:
(a) provide for technical consultancy (10 man-months) on a periodic
basis to review and make recommendations on improvement of basic
agricultural management, work methods and organization, and the
introduction of new technology. In particular, the consultants
should provide practical assistance with developing improved
techniques for minimum tillage and also in training extension
staff to assist smallholders to reduce labor peaks through the
application of simple work and method study;
(b) provide assistance in establishing management training and staff
development programs for project and, where necessary, LGC staff.
The consultants (6 man-months) would assist the Staff Development
officer to develop such a program within six months of loan effec-
tiveness, and would visit the project on a yearly basis to assess
and evaluate the progress of staff training and development.
Findings would be reported to the State and to the Bank; and
(c) provide for 14 man-months of technical consultancy to carry
out a hydrogeological study to determine the ground water
potential for the area and recommend on the most appropriate
and cost effective method of providing domestic water supplies;
(d) assist the project for three months after loan signature to start
up project operations. In particular, and depending upon permanent
staff availability, consultants might assist in establishment of
accounting systems for the project;
(e) provide three man-months for tax consultancy to evaluate the
potential tax base for LGAs with the possibility of developing
equitable tax or fee structures to assist in appropriate cost
recovery, for project built feeders roads, dams and wells.
5.28      The consultants would be recruited at an estimated cost of US$9,000
per man-month individually or through consultant firms. It is expected that
international consultants would provide the main input, but efforts would be
made to encourage local firms to participate where possible as for example
the current use of a Nigerian firm by Funtua and Gombe ADPs to provide
inservice management training. Assurances have been obtained during negotia-
tions that for Oyo State - ONPI4U would be responsible for preparing detailed
terms of reference for review by the Bank prior to engagement of any consul-
tant, and that the latter would be properly qualified and experienced, and
would be employed on conditions and terms satisfactory to the Bank.



- 22 -
C. Cost Estimates
5.29      Project costs during the five-year development period 1980/81-
1984/85 are estimated at N41.6 million (US$69.4 million) of which N16.8
million (US$28.0 million) or 40% would be foreign exchange cos . If taxes
and duties are excluded, costs would be N138.9 million (US$64.9 million).
Base costs are estimated on prices obtained during appraisal updated to
reflect baseline costs expected in April 1980. Costs include: (a) physical
contingencies equal to 5% of base costs except civil work (routine structures
involving simple designs which are generally a repetition to those built in
other projects) which have 10%; (b) price contingencies for local construction
and operating costs at 15% per year for each year of the five year period; for
local salaries and labor employed directly by the project 7%; and (c) price
contingencies for foreign costs (including those of civil works), calculated
on base costs plus physical contingencies, compounded annually, and based on
the following annual rates of inflation: 1980, 9%; 1981, 8% and 1982-1985, 7%
yearly.
5.30      Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent
to 23% of total costs or 30% of baseline costs. Project costs and price
contingencies have been calculated on the assumption that the exchange rate
between the naira and the dollar will remain fixed at N1=US$1.67 throughout
the project period. This closely reflects the experience of recent years
during which time the exchange rate remained practically unchanged despite
a rate of domestic inflation in Nigeria which consistently exceeded inter-
national inflation by a significant margin.
5.31      The estimates of project cost in dollar terms would be affected by
a change in exchange rate policy. If, for example, there were to be a 20%
devaluation to compensate for the system of import duties and export incen-
tives currently in force and if the exchange rate were to be adjusted there-
after to compensate fully for the difference between domestic inflation and
international inflation projected for future years, then the local component
of project costs would be lower when expressed in dollar terms. Under this
assumption the local component of project costs would amount to US$35.1
million compared with the US$41.4 million estimated on the basis of the
present exchange rate. Total project cost would, therefore, amount to only
US$62.1 million (compared with US$69.4 million estimated on the basis of the
present exchange rate) and the share of total project cost financed by the
Bank loan would be 46% (compared with 40% estimated on the basis of the
present exchange rate).
5.32      Details of project costs are presented in Annex 2, Table 1 and the
Project File C4, and summarized below:



- 23 -
Table 1: Summary of Project Costs
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
---- (W million) ----    --- (US$ million) ---
I. Field Crops and Development
Technical Services            5.6      2.5     8.3      9.4      4.2    13.6
Incremental Farm Inputs       0.4      2.3     2.7      0.7     3.8      4.5
Civil Works                   8.1      6.0    14.1    13.5    10.0    23.5
Subtotal                   14.1    10.8    24.9    23.6    18.0    41.6
II. Support Services
Project Management & Adm.   2.1        0.7     2.8      3.5      1.2     4.7
Evaluation Unit               0.5      0.2     0.7      0.8      0.3     1.1
Training                      0.5      0.3     0.8      0.9     0.5      1.4
Commercial Services           1.7      0.7     2.4      2.8      1.1     3.9
Consultants Services           -      0.4      0.4       -      0.7      0.7
Subtotal                    4.8     2.3      7.1      8.0     3.8    11.8
Total Base Costs             18.9    13.1    32.0    31.6    21.8    53.4
Physical Contingencies (6%)           1.2     0.7      1.9     2.0      1.2      3.2
Price Contingencies (24.9%)          4.7      3.0      7.7      7.8     5.0    12.8
Total Contingencies (30.8%)          5.9      3.7      9.6      9.8     6.2    16.0
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS       24.8    16.8    41.6    41.4    28.0    69.4
D. Proposed Financing
5.33      Of the total project cost of N41.6 million (US$69.4 million),
the Bank would finance N16.8 million (US$28.0 million) at the lending rate
current at the time of loan approval and for a period of 20 years, including a
five year grace period. The Bank loan would cover 40% of total project costs
or 43% of project costs net of taxes, equivalent to the foreign exchange cost;
FGN would finance N10.4 million (US$17.4 million) representing 25% of project
costs, in addition to funding farm input subsidies, and OYSG N14.4 million
(US$24.0 million) or 35%, of project cost, in addition to maintaining its
existing expenditures in the project area (para 5.35). A summary of this
proposed financing plan is shown below (detailed financing plan is at Annex 2
Table 3).



- 24 -
Table 2: Proposed Financing Plan by Expense Category
(N/million)
Total   IBRD    FGN    OYSG   Distribution
Buildings and Construction          7.4    4.2    1.6       1.6       17
Plant, Vehicles and
Equipment                         7.2    6.5    0.4      0.3        17
Salaries and Wages                 15.4    2.6    5.0       7.8       36
Consultant Services                 0.5    0.5       -        -        4
Operating Costs                     7.5       -    3.1      4.4        18
Farm Inputs                         3.6    3.0    0.3       0.3        8
Total N million                    41.6   16.8   10.4    14.4        100
Total US$ million                  69.4   28.0   17.4    24.0          -
Percentage                              40      25      35
5.34      The Bank loan would be made to the Federal Government who would
onlend it on the same terms and conditions to OYSG under a subsidiary loan
agreement drawn up between FGN and OYSG. Ongoing projects are suffering from
inadequate inflows of funds from Government sources, and in order to address
this problem, assurances were obtained during negotiations that Bank disburse-
ments would be made directly to ONPMIU's commercial bank account; ONPIU would
be authorized to establish overdraft facilities equivalent to six months
working capital requirement as estimated in the annual state approved budget
and that the overdraft would be guaranteed by OYSG; FGN and OYSG would provide
their quarterly contributions to the project at least three months in advance,
in accordance with the approved annual budget; and the management of ONPMU
would submit at least four months prior to each fiscal year the project's
proposed annual budget, as approved by the Budget and Policy Coordinating
Committee (BPCC)(para 8.02), to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the State
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, and the Bank.
5.35      Farm inputs are costed on an incremental basis.  Fertilizers and
would be sold on a subsidized basis following established Federal and State
policies. It is essential that ONPMIU receives subventions from FGN and
the procedure of procuring fertilizer centrally and distributing it to the
States including a timetable has been agreed upon at negotiations. Project
operating expenditures are incremental to estimated existing government
recurrent expenditures on agricultural development, in the project area of
N900,000 per annum (1980 constant terms). Details of existing expenditures
are in Project Working File C4. OYSG would continue disbursing these funds to
the project in addition to the incremental requirements showm in the above
table. Assurances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations.
E. Procurement
5.36      Fertilizers, chemicals, motor vehicles, road making equipment and
tractors valued at about N9.4 million (US$15.7 million) would be procured



- 25 -
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for less than US$100,000 would be procured according to local
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. For contracts of less than
US$30,000, competitive shopping would be employed. Items for procurement
would be bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. Total purchases
under these two procedures are estimated at N2.4 (US$4.0 million). Domes-
tically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable
import duty, whichever is lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign
manufacturers. Experience has shown that contracts for houses, stores and
buildings, which are valued at about N7.4 million (US$12.4 million) are not
attractive to foreign contractors due to dispersed location, small size of
contracts and competitiveness of local contractors; such contracts would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. Construction of feeder
roads and small dams, for which labor and materials are valued at N5.0
million (US$8.4 million), would be undertaken by the project on force account,
due to a continuing shortage of dependable contractors able to undertake this
type of work. A large part of the project cost would be operating expenses
and local salaries, valued at about N14.3 million (US$23.9 million) which
are unsuitable for competitive bidding. The services of consultants and
internationally recruited staff valued at N3.1 million (US$5.2 million)
would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
F. Disbursements
5.37      Expenditure would be fully documented.  A schedule of Bank Loan
disbursements is at Annex 2, Table 4. The Bank loan would be disbursed
during 1980-85 as follows:
Category I       60% of the cost of buildings, offices, houses and
furnishings, totalling US$6.2 million;
Category II      100% of the foreign expenditures on directly imported
vehicles, tractors, roadmaking equipment and spare
parts (or if locally procured 90% of expenditure)
totalling US$9.9 million;
Category III    100% of the cost of salaries and allowances of inter-
nationally recruited staff and consultant services
and overseas training totalling US$4.6 million;
Category IV      100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported
fertilizer, chemicals and other farm inputs (or
if locally procured 85% of expenditure) totalling
US$4.5 million;
Category V       an unallocated amount of US$2.8 million.
Disbursements for all categories would be made against contracts of procure-
ment entered upon by ONPMU according to the specification of para. 5.36. No



- 26 -
payment would be made against certificates of expenditure and/or for force
account works.
G. Accounts and Audits
5.38      ONPMU would keep records in accordance with sound accounting
practices to reflect its operational and financial position and would have
these audited by a firm of independent external auditors acceptable to the
Bank; the audited accounts and the auditor's reports, including a statement
as to whether Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose, w7ould be
submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
H.  Programming and Budgeting
5.39      Annual budgets would be prepared by Oyo-North Project lManagement
Unit (ONRIU) based on appraisal estimates amended, where necessary, to reflect
changes in costs and projected development policies. These would be submitted
to the Budgeting and Policy Coordinating Committee (BPCC) (para 8.02) for
approval. ONRIU would prepare quarterly cash flow statements which would be
submitted to BPCC and ONPIU would operate on the basis of these statements.
ONPI4U would prepare, for prompt submission to the Bank, quarterly and annual
progress reports, including summaries of expenditures and use of funds. On
the basis of the approved annual budgets, the State and Federal Governments
would make budgetary allocations and thereafter would make available to ONPMU
all necessary funds quarterly and in advance (see para. 5.34). However as a
condition of effectiveness a separate bank account for ONRIU would be opened
with a commercial bank, and an initial deposit of N2.0 million (about 25% of
project year one expenditures) of which Nl.O million paid-in by FGN and
N1.O million by Oyo State.
VI. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A. Crop Development
6.01      Agronomic recommendations and yield projections (summarized at Annex
1, Table 1) are based on relevant research; experience in other projects and
observed performance under field conditions. Development proposals for the
BSP have additionally taken account of the ecological and edaphic conditions
in the project area, and the socio-economic constraints, including family
finances and labor availability. The technology proposed is simple and rela-
tively inexpensive. In brief, substantial increases in the present low maize
and cowpea yields are projected on the basis of the impact of improved
varieties; increased fertilizer use; better husbandry and pest control. While



- 27 -
conservative yield increases are anticipated for yams and cassava, for which
new varieties are also available; only moderate increases are expected for
sorghum. However, as further information becomes available from research and
project trials, and as farm management standards improve, further modifications
and achievements can be expected.
6.02      The proposed technology would involve the use of improved planting
material (including cleaned, dressed and certified seed), appropriate fertilizer
use, insect, pest and disease control, improved and more timely cultivation and
sound post-harvest practices. Planting material for root crops would include
improved strains of cassava resistant to leaf mosaic and cassava bacterial
blight and varieties of yams which are high yielding, resistant to disease and
insect pests, long storing and palatable. Yam setts would be dusted prior to
planting. To reduce post-harvest losses, provision has been made to treat
crops stored on farm against pests. In addition, maize cribs would be built,
with project supplied materials, to introduce farmers to improved methods of
drying and storage which would allow reaping during the rainy season (para 5.13).
6.03      More sophisticated technology would be introduced for farmers
participating in the ASP program. This would include, for the conventional
cultivation package, tractor plowing, hand planting, hand controlled droplet
application (CDA), herbicide spraying (with provision for backup mechanical
weed control), and tractor trailer assistance with harvesting. The rotation
would be three years maize and one year cassava, followed by a fallow period.
At least one of the first two maize crop would be followed by late cowpea
and for this crop maize cribs would be mandatory. The cassava crop would be
planted in September after the third maize crop. Yams would generally be
grown in rotation with vegetables, sorghum and other food crops but are, not
included in the maize-cassava rotation due to the need for ridging which would
reduce trash needed for minimum tillage. Efforts would be made to at least
partially mechanize the ridging for yams. Staking of this crop is not as
essential as further south but improved labor effective methods of staking
would be investigated.
6.04      Cultivation of mechanized non-minimum tillage cassava would include
ridging. For the minimum tillage package, the sequence of operations would
be trashing of crop residues and weeds with a rotary slasher, spraying with a
blanket herbicide, spraying with a pre-emergent herbicide (when cowpeas are
to be planted the pre-emergent herbicide would be omitted), hand planting and
assistance with mechanized transport at harvesting. The rotation would be as
for conventional mechanical cultivation, but without any fallow period. Yield
projections under these systems are summarized at Annex 1, Table 1. These are
conservative, but allow for a development phase while farmers acquire basic
management skills. Later yields should further improve, and other legumes
such as soybeans could probably then be introduced into the rotation.
6.05      Minimum tillage techniques have been used in many countries and are
extensively applied in the United States using conventional applicators which
require large quantities of water as a base for the herbicide. Application
in the project area would be more difficult due to problems in transporting
large amounts of water, and a new application technique, Controlled Droplet



- 28 -
Application (CDA) spraying will be used. The problems in adopting this are
mainly managerial although some technical problems remain. If the tractor
operations are efficiently organized, most of these operations present no
problems. Herbicides have been tested at IITA, and the recommended types and
rates are satisfactory, although capable of improvement; however, application
remains a problem and more work needs to be done on the utilization of hand
and tractor-mounted sprayers. These sprayers, as for ultra low volume in-
secticide sprayers, apply a blanket spray of minute droplets, use very little
water as a base and generally need far less of the active chemical ingredient
than conventional applications thus minimizing adverse environmental side
effects. Standard sprayers would be available as a backup if necessary.
6.06      The project would adopt techniques similar to the IITA minimum
tillage plots and would endeavor to develop stable farming systems suitable
to the area. Initially, a simple but practical rotation of three years maize
plus one year cassava is proposed, with the cassava to be underplanted late in
the third maize crop. The second year of maize would be early planted and
followed by cowpeas in the same season. Adopting this rotation and using
conservative figures for yield increases and machinery output, it is estimated
that the increase in yield and acreage will raise average farmer gross incomes
to levels which should make the enterprise economically attractive. (For
details see Summary of Farm Budgets in Section IX Financial Implications for
Farmers, and Annex I, Tables 5, 6, 7 & 8). Since the large-scale application
of minimum tillage farming to West Africa is a pioneering effort, the present
design of the project is conservative with only a relatively small proportion
of farms adopting the new approach. The intention, however, is to maintain
flexibility of project design and should the minimum tillage system 'take off'
in the early years, project management should naturally encourage wider
adoption than assumed in this report.
6.07      The timely supply of farm inputs in adequate quantities is essential
for the uptake of new technology. In the light of delays experienced in the
supply of fertilizer to the ongoing Bank-assisted projects, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that deliveries would follow an agreed timetable,
the progress of which would be jointly monitored by FGN and the Bank, and
that the system of Central Fertilizer Unit (CFU) procurement would be reviewed
after two years. Fertilizer would be procured through the CFU using inter-
national competitive bidding with the same system of checks on timely supply
as apply to other projects. Details of annual requirements are given in Annex
1, Table 4.
6.08      The exact percentage composition of crops, particularly under BSP
can only be a matter of estimation, and can be expected to change with economic
factors and technical advances. The overall area under cultivation is estimated
to grow at 2.5% in line with population increase, but in areas adjacent to
towns, where pressure on land is at a maximum, cultivated areas would increase
due to the falling percentage of fallow land. Comparative production and
yield estimates are shown in table 3 below. The overall production in terms
of grain equivalent is expected to increase from 193,000 tons to 233,000 tons
at full development, an increase of 21% or equal to an annual growth rate of
about 4%. This compares favorably with the existing national average agricul-
ture production performance of about less than 1% per annum.



- 29 -
Table 3: Increases in Production
Average                   Yield Increase
Pre-Project      Incremental  Production    Annual       from Full Adoption
Net Production   Production    Increase   Growth Rate  Improved Practices
--------M'----tons---------    ---------------%------------------------
Maize            47,000         17,000          36          5.3                 87
Sorghum           6,500            800         12           2.3                 76
Yams            167,000        24,000           14          2.7                 57
Cassava         254,000        39,000           15          2.9                 28
Cowpeas             425            500        117          16.8                400
B. Tractor Services
6.09      The developments proposed under ASP would require a moderate expan-
sion of tractor services to cater for 8,000 ha annually by Year 6. This would
involve, an increase of some 36 in the existing tractor force. In arriving at
this number the calculation takes account of the benefits of better organiza-
tion and management, whereby each tractor (particularly with minimum tillage)
should be able to service an estimated 175 ha (involving 750 operating hours
per annum).
6.10      Most of the operations carried out under minimum tillage (slashing,
spraying) will involve less wear on machinery than conventional operations.
However, the practical problems of applying the techniques on a large scale
will call for constant liaison with researchers and manufacturers, and the
ability on the part of staff to assess results impartially and modify equip-
ment where necessary. There is also a very real possibility that in view of
the low horsepower requirements for minimum tillage operations a very light
tractor will be adequate. Provision has accordingly been made in the project
for a senior mechanical engineer whose duties would include liaison with
research, manufacturers and consultants (para 5.11).
C. Land Development
6.11      Proposals for crop development under the ASP would require a total
of 2,500 ha to be cleared and stumped. This would be left to the farmer, who
in any case is clearing land under his present system to allow for the usual
fallow period. Although the general topography of the project area does not
demand any heavy land clearing, in some cases there would be need for it. In
order to provide for higher standards of stumping the project would procure
hand operated winches, which would be hired out to farmers to enable them to
fell trees and extract most of their roots in one operation.



- 30 -
6.12      The farm management and planning unit (para 8.05) would include
conservation planning capability in order to advise farmers on selection of
good arable areas. It would also be responsible for designing and construction
of conservation layouts on the government farms. On private or group farms
where such work is necessary it would design the works but the farmer would be
responsible for construction. For this purpose, if necessary he could utilize
the tractor hire services operated by the Commercial Services Division.
D. Feeder Roads
6.13      Detailed phasing and design criteria of the annual road program is
in Project File C2. The planning and design of project feeder roads would
follow existing Federal, State and local Government systems and would be
based on sound engineering and soil conservation practices. In view of the
abundance of laterite throughout the project area it is proposed that motor-
ized scrapers be used for earthmoving in preference to lorries and front-end
loaders. Road lines would be cleared to a width of 12 metres to accommodate
a road 5.2 metres wide, with side drains 1.8 metres wide. New roads would
be aligned on ridges, wherever possible, to reduce construction and mainten-
ance costs. The project would establish a casting yard for the manufacture
of culvert ringes and fence posts.
6.14      The project would undertake maintenance of both improved and new
roads for a period of three years prior to hand-over to the local Governments
concerned. This would entail two gradings each year for the first 2 years
followed by a major overhaul in the third year. It would be vital for the
local Governments and their roads personnel to be closely involved in the road
programme from the outset so that eventual transfer of maintenance responsi-
bilities to LGCs should be smooth and efficient. During negotiations it has
been agreed that all Local Government roads personnel would be made available
to the project for both formal and in-service training to enable them for
independent road maintenance operation thereafter. In addition to training
technical personnel it would be necessary to provide training in budgeting,
budgetary control and costing. The possibility of a combined Roads Unit for
the three Local Governments was considered. It would obviously be much more
efficient and logical to establish such a unit, as full use would be made of
the central workshop and overheads would be greatly reduced. If the three
Local Governments are able to resolve the political and financial problems
such a unit should be established (para. 8.06), or otherwise three individual
units would be needed.
E. Water Development
6.15      The project's water development strategy would aim to eventually
combine the optimum utilization of surface and groundwater supplies to provide
water for humans, livestock, and supplementary water for dry season crops -
mainly vegetables. Thus in the future it can be expected that a well balanced



- 31 -
program of small dams, wells, and boreholes should eventually emerge with each
method of supply complementing the other. The balance in any specific area
would depend on the final utilization of the water, the hydrological nature
and climate of the particular area, and the relative cost effectiveness of
various methods of supply.
6.16      Since at this stage little is known about the hydrology of the area,
the project would develop a strategy of developing surface water dams and
wells in appropriate locations, and would at the same time undertake a hydro-
geological survey to explore for the groundwater sources. The result of the
latter should give a good indication, as did a smaller study carried out under
the Gombe ADP (Loan 1164-UNI), of the mix of future water delivery systems
appropriate for development in the decade ahead. This survey would be sup-
ported by an additional survey, to be financed under the Ekiti-Akoko ADP, that
would recommend an appropriate strategy for rural water supplies under the
various conditions applying in Nigeria.
6.17      The measures for water supply proposed for this project have the
primary objective of filling a very important short term need in providing
water during the difficult 5 months annual dry season. Environmentally, the
program of dam building will have a beneficial effect on the water table and
stream flow, but it is recognized that the dangers of water borne diseases
especially, bilharzia infection from washing in the reservoirs would remain
This would be reduced, however, by the provision of an outlet pipe to allow
chemical treatment of the water or the use of pressure filtration systems,
both of which would supply clean drinking water. Existing streams and pools
are, however, currently a source of infection and control of this disease is
largely a function of improved health education. A more sophisticated water
reticulation systems would be the responsibility of either the State's public
works department or the local communities themselves. The latter would be
encouraged to finance supplementary reticulation from community funds.
6.18      The Dams and Wells construction program would be phased over four
years (year 2 - 5) and would involve annual construction of 10 dams and 75
wells. Dams would be maintained by the project for a period of 2 years after
construction; thereafter they would be handed over to the Oyo State Water
Corporation. W4ells would be handed over to Local Governments after commis-
sioning. In both cases the personnel responsible for maintenance would
undergo thorough training by project staff to ensure prolonged and effective
use of these amenities. Particular attention would be paid to the control of
erosion in the spillways and on the embankments. The latter would be fenced
against livestock, and grassed. Trees or termite mounds would not be permitted
on the embankment.
VII. MIARKET PROSPECTS, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Market Prospects
7.01      Almost all studies of Nigeria's future food needs predict a widening
food deficit for the country over the 1985-1990 period. The recent Nigerian



- 32 -
Agricultural Sector Review (2181-UNI) projects the 1985 food deficit at around
6.6 million tons of cereal equivalent, increasing to 10.6 million tons in
1990. Food imports have soared from US$97.0 million in 1970 to about US$1.3
billion in 1978 (para. 2.06). Moreover, due to the increased migration of
rural population to the towns in the future the demand for food from urban
centers is predicted to increase enormously. Although no recent reliable data
are available on foodcrop trade in the project area, available studies suggest
a substantial net outflow of grains, partially offset by an inflow of processed
or "convenience" foods like bread, cassava, gari and yam flour. The project
area serves as a supply source for at least three major urban centers, namely,
Oyo, Iseyin and Ibadan, projections show that by 1990, the likely truly urban
population of these towns will reach about 2.0 million, thus providing a major
demand source for project-induced production.
7.02      At full development, from 1986-87 onwards, total net food production
in the project area is expected to reach 230,000 m/tons of cereal equivalent.
At the same time while using an average per capita consumption level of 170 kg
per annum (grain equivalents), and assuming a project area 1985 population
(urban and rural) of 727,000 (para. 4.07), the estimated consumption would
be 124,000 m/tons, leading to a modest local food surplus. However, in terms
of the overall national demand, the project's incremental production would
contribute less than 1% of the national projected food deficit in 1985 of 6.6
million metric tons. In view of Nigeria's overall food shortage situation,
and that project production would only constitute a small percentage of total
national demand, no difficulty should arise in marketing of project output; in
fact project production would be effective import substitution. In addition
to human consumption, project grain output (especially maize) would contribute
to meeting critical local animal feed shortages.
B. Marketing
7.03      In Nigeria, foodcrops are almost exclusively traded through the
private sector on a somewhat laissez-faire basis; Government interference is
restricted to insignificant purchases by the Commodity Boards. Foodcrop
markets are characterized by many buyers and sellers interlinking between
producer and consumer in a complex system of arbitrage and distribution. In
general, communication between markets is limited by the poor feeder road
system and integration is constricted by the almost complete absence of market
information and undercapitalization of market channel participants. Despite
its shortcomings, traditional foodcrop marketing is basically adapted to
existing production conditions and is thought to function quite efficiently.
The project area, like the rest of Nigeria, has both a chain of small periodic
village markets and some large urban markets at Shaki, Kishi and Oke Iko. In
addition, marketable surpluses from the area reach the nearby urban markets of
Oyo, Ibadan, Iseyin and Ilorin. Although there are adequate market outlets
for project-induced output, there exists unnecessary price differentials for
given crops between producing locations within the project area and between
most of these and the urban markets. There are several reasons for the
relatively undeveloped nature of project area markets, but the lack or absence



- 33 -
of crop evacuation roads is a major contributing factor. It is expected that
by improving the area's feeder road system, the project would not only facili-
tate marketing but in some cases, would open up new areas to the market
economy. tIonitoring and evaluation results from the ongoing projects in
northern Nigeria indicate that improved farm to market roads have resulted in
a better flo4 of market information, increased competition and improved
prices, all of which have impacted positively on the farmers' selling posi-.
tion. The project would help improve existing marketing arrangements by:
establishing and promoting trading links between producer and consumer includ-
ing promotion of group and cooperative marketing schemes; providing assistance
in kind for on-farm storage; and coordinating the use of the existing storage
facilities.
C. Prices
7.04      Foodcrop prices in Nigeria are largely determined by the relevant
domestic supply and demand conditions. W4hile official price regulation is
confined to export crops, Government operates through its various Commodity
Boards a minimum guaranteed price scheme. However, in recent years the
unusually high domestic free market prices have rendered the Government's
guaranteed floor price virtually ineffective -- the Commodity Boards now
acting only as buyers of "last resort". One conspicuous result of the almost
500% increase in urban food price index during the 1970-77 period has been
a widening ratio between domestic and world market prices for tradeable com-
modities like maize and sorghum. Given the predicted food deficits, and the
increasing budgetary constraints as well as logistic difficulties in obtaining
imported food, it is quite likely that at least for sometime, high domestic
food prices would continue. Project production is however unlikely to have
any overall effect on domestic market prices and in general the price outlook
for project crops is favorable.
7.05      Although domestic price data for crops like yams, cassava and
cowpeas are collected by both 1LANR and the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (2IOFED), the quality of the data base is highly suspect. There-
fore, in order to assemble future farmgate prices for internationally non-
traded crops (cassava, yams, cowpeas), the 2IOA prices series were crosschecked
with other data to arrive at the reference prices which are post-harvest
wholesale prices in the selected markets. Future economic farmgate prices
for maize, sorghum and fertilizers were derived from the Bank's annual (April
1979) commodity price forecasts of world market prices, updated to April 1980
(the expected date of project start up), by applying the index of interna-
tional inflation; these prices were also adjusted for transport, handling and
primary marketing costs. Financial crop prices (for farm budgets) reflect
local rural retail market conditions adjusted to farmgate. A summary of
economic and financial farmgate prices is given below and details are in the
Project File C-3.



- 34 -
Table 4. Farm-Gate Prices of Inputs and Outputs
Naira/m/ton
1980-85               1980      1985
Crops                           Financial                  Economic
Maize                               240                  169      182
Sorghum                             200                  156     166
Cassava                             102                  102      102
Yams                                305                  305      -
Cowpeas                             691                  691      -
1980                         1985
Fertilizer               Financial  Economic           Financial  Economic
NPK (15:15:15)              228        274                256          305
CAN                         178        210                209          247
VIII. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A. Organization and Management
8.01      The project embraces a range of activities which at present are
the responsibility of different ministries and institutions. Many of these
activit'ies are interdependent and successful implementation requires a very
close liaison or direction by. a single management unit with a degree of
autonomy not normally associated with government operations. An administra-
tive structure is therefore required which would enable the project to be
implemented efficiently, while at the same time retaining a close liaison with
an adequate representation at the ministries and institutions concerned with
project actions.
8.02      Until now, each Bank-assisted project in Nigeria has established
a Project coordinating comittee to be responsible for overall project policy.
However, now that Bank involvement in the sector is increasing, and with
certain states operating as many as three or four Bank agricultural projects,
it is considered preferable to establish a single common conmittee, called
the Budgeting and Policy Coordinating Committee (BPCC), for each state as has
already been agreed for Ondo and Ogun State under the forestry project
(Loan-1679 UNI). This approach could avoid duplication of efforts or incon-
sistencies in decisions between different projects, and is thought more likely
to attract high-level support from the various participating agencies. Once
BPCC is established as an effective body, its role in State policy-making
would not only affect the Bank-assisted projects but it would also be a useful
forum for the formulation of overall State policy for the agricultural sector.
8.03      The project would be implemented by a semi-autonomous management
body the Oyo-North Project Mlanagement Unit (ONPMU) within the Ministry of



- 35 -
Agriculture and Natural Resources of Oyo State. The management unit would
be responsible to BPCC which would be responsible for reviewing budget and
policy matters, not only for the Oyo-North ADP, but also for other Bank-
financed agricultural projects in the States. The advisory body to BPCC would
be the existing Planning, Budgeting and Monitoring Division of MANR.  BPCC
would determine common policy issues; have an overall view of a number of
project budgets involving a significant portion of the State's agricultural
allocations; ensure common conditions of service; award major contracts; etc.
BPCC would comprise the Permanent Secretary of Agriculture (Chairman),
Chief Agricultural Officer, Chief Agricultural Engineer, Chief Conservator
of Forests, Chief Agricultural Planning Officer (CAPO), the Project Manager of
AISU, the General Manager of the Oyo State Water Corporation, Project Managers
of Bank-assisted projects, a representative of the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development, and a representative of the FMA. Representatives of
other Ministries or agencies would be co-opted when required. The CAPO would
be Secretary to the Committee. A condition of effectiveness would be that Oyo
State had, through publication in the official gazette, established ONPMU and
BPCC with terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank.
8.04      ONPMU would take over the MANR agricultural responsibilities in the
project area except for forestry and veterinary functions. ONPMU would have a
large degree of operational and financial autonomy but would liaise and
coordinate its activities with other relevant public agencies in the area to
minimize duplication of programs and to facilitate post-project management.
Particular emphasis would be placed on liaison with the LGCs, and a senior
project headquarters officer would be designated to coordinate project and LGC
operations. Since the LGCs will be in a formative phase, at this crucial
stage the project would play a highly constructive role in contributing to
staff training and providing advice and assistance in areas such as planning
and budgeting. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MANR would give
high priority to ONPMU staff recruitment and as far as possible promptly
accede to ONPMU requests for secondment of MANR technical and other staff to
the project. Assurances were also obtained that responsibility for all
agricultural extension work in the project area would be transferred to ONPMU
no later than April 1, 1980.
8.05      The project organization is shown on Chart No. IBRD 20056.  The apex
of ONPMU would be the project manager's office, and this would include the key
administrative and financial divisions. Reporting to the project manager
would be two departments and three further divisions:
-    the Technical Services Department would be responsible for
smallholder extension, land use planning, farm management
advisory services, seed multiplication, and applied research;
-    the Engineering Services Department would be responsible for
dams and wells, the construction of roads, the supervision
of building contracts and the operation of project workshops;
-    the Training Division would be responsible for training project,
cooperative and when necessary LGC staff, and for staff develop-
ment, and also for formal farmer training, and production of
training materials;



- 36 -
-    the Commercial Services Division would be responsible for farm
input supplies, tractor hire services, marketing and cooperative
development; and
-    the Monitoring and Evaluation Division would monitor and
evaluate project technical, economic and financial progress,
collect planning data, conduct land use surveys, and prepare
land planning data.
8.06      The Oyo North Project Technical Coordination Committee (ONPTCC)
would be established once the project is operational. ONPTCC would serve
as a local coordinating unit for ONPMU. It would comprise representatives
of the LGCs and other government agencies operating in conjunction with
the project. Selected farmers and project technical staff would also be
members. ONPTCC would play a particularly important role in siting the Group
Farms, farm service centers and roads, would review project related disputes,
establish guidelines for land allocation (when necessary) and provide a forum
to ensure coordination of project and non-project activities. Eventually
ONPTCC could evolve into a joint board that would coordinate and execute
activities of common interest to the LGCs concerned as provided for in the
Edict establishing the LGCs.
B. Staffing
8.07      Nigeria is generally short of trained and experienced staff with
the capability of initiating and implementing a development program such as is
described in this report. Experience from ongoing projects indicates that the
shortage is particularly evident at senior and middle levels of management.
The problem is further aggravated by the disparity between salary levels in
the public and private sectors, and by some State Governments' reluctance to
employ Nigerian personnel non-indigenous to the State. However, compared to
some other states where Bank projects are under implementation Oyo State is
relatively well staffed, although staff tend to be concentrated in towns
and there is some reluctance to accept rural postings. Presently the state
has about 1,064 agricultural staff (excluding cocoa development unit staff),
of which there are: 63 agricultural officers, 280 agricultural superintendents
and 721 agricultural assistants. The project area has only 42 agricultural
staff. Detailed incremental staff requirements for the project are in Project
File Cl.
8.08      The effectiveness of present staff deployment is limited by a
shortage of extension workers in the project area (1 to 2,000 farmers), poor
roads, lack of transport and the absence of defined work programs. Even
though statewide, the number of Agricultural Assistants is adequate, the
majority are deployed in the cocoa growing areas. The main shortfall in staff
is in the Junior grades and it would appear that some redeployment of these
grades from other areas would be feasible until crash training of junior staff
is effected to fill the shortfall. Personnel trained by the project under
crash programs could be upgraded at a later date (para. 5.23). Recruitment



- 37 -
of personnel for many middle grade posts is possible in Ibadan (where there
is sufficient talent) provided salaries are sufficiently attractive. In the
four ongoing rural development projects, the Bank encouraged State governments
to identify and recruit suitable Nigerians for key positions but in nearly
every instance, it proved not possible. The project has therefore provided
funds (about US$85,000 per man-year) 1/ for international recruitment of
the following key staff: project manager, chief accountant, chief of techni-
cal services, senior planning officer, senior staff development officer,
farm management adviser, chief development engineer, senior mechanical engi-
neer, senior hydrological engineer, senior roads engineer, commercial manager;
and credit and cooperative adviser to be posted with AISU. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that persons with qualifications and experi-
ence and on terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank would be
appointed to these posts. The appointment of the project manager, and chief
accountant, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
8.09      During negotiations it was agreed that the Nigerian authorities
would recruit on their own the international staff for this project, through a
consulting firm acceptable to the Bank. The higher cost per man-year (para
8.08) reflects the fees of the consultant firm contracted to provide the key
staff. The signing of a contract agreement between OYSG and firm acceptable
to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness. The appointment of the
project manager and chief accountant would also be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
C. Input Distribution and Farm Credit
8.10      Background.  Presently, Oyo State has two institutions, namely the
Agricultural Input and Services Unit (AISU) and the Oyo State Investment and
Credit Corporation (OYSICC) that could be reinforced, and through effective
coordination could provide the framework for an efficient statewide input
distribution and credit organizations.
8.11      Early in 1978, OYSG established AISU as a semi-autonomous agency
with statewide responsibility for making farm inputs and services available
to farmers. AISU operates from Agro-Service Centers (ASC), located at each
of the State's LGC headquarters. All three LGAs in the proposed project area
have ASCs. These centers serve as supply outlets for fertilizer (received
from the FMG), improved seeds, sprayers and small tools, and tractor hire ser-
vices. Although AISU is designed to function as a semi-autonomous entity, in
practice it has to rely heavily on the State for its budgetary allocations, es-
pecially for its operating expenditures which are fully met through State bud-
getary appropriations. During the 1977-78 fiscal year a sum of N8.7 million
1/   Includes US$30,000 base salary; US$18,000 for post allowance, cost of
living allowances and gratuity, US$12,000 for medical, education and
settlement costs, and US$4,000 for international travel. Company
overheads 10% and fees 18%.



- 38 -
was approved for AISU, of which N3.9 million was expended. Total revenues
during the same period were only NO.4 million against a targeted revenue
of N1.5 million. AISU's fiscal reliance on the State will not diminish
unless there is a change in the present Government subsidy policy which
prevents it from charging an adequate markup for the services it provides
and more importantly from recovery of the full cost for its services. For
these reasons under the project, a commercial services division would be
established which would operate on a cost plus basis to ensure a timely pro-
curement and distribution of inputs to project area farmers.
8.12      OYSICC, established as a successor to the former Western State
Investment and Credit Corporation is the State's major credit institution.
In addition to other forms of credit and investment activities, OYSICC has a
full fledged agricultural credit department. OYSICC's agricultural credit
operations are mainly confined to lending for cocoa marketing (mostly through
cooperatives) while food crop production loans have been limited. This is
evident from the fact that during 1977-78 OYSICC made agricultural loans
amounting to N4.5 million (US$6.9 million), of which only N1.2 million
(US$1.8 million) was for food crop production. Of this, project area farmers
received only NO.8 million or 18% of OYSICC's total lending. While OYSICC's
debt recovery on marketing loans has been satisfactory (about 90%), loan
collection for food crop credit has been poor (less than 40%). The high
arrears rate has further exacerbated OYSICC's perennial shortage of working
capital and resulted in a shift in its loan portfolio in favor of the less
risky export crop marketing and plantation type lending.
8.13      Despite these financial and other limitations, OYSICC is anxious
to lend for food crop production, and in pursuance of this objective it has
stationed credit agents at all of the 23 statewide ASCs. OYSICC credit
agents are authorized to process and approve individual loans up to N100.
Potential borrowers, are identified either by M4ANR extension agents or AISU
marketing staff. Short term loans for hired labor and other farm inputs carry
interest rates ranging from 5% to 8%, depending on the source of OYSICC funds.
Loan recovery is at harvest and usually debt is allowed to 'roll over' to
a maximum 12 month period. Follow up on borrower's performance is almost
non-existent, and action is only initiated in case of default.
8.14      Input Distribution.  The project would establish its own input
supply and distribution system for project area farmers. Fertilizers,
chemicals, sprayers and other essential farm incremental inputs would be
procured directly (fertilizer would be an exception if FGN continues its
present centralized procurement system). Tractors and other equipment would
also be procured and operated with project funds. Improved seeds would be
produced on project farms, and by contracted outgrowers (para 5.12). All farm
inputs would be marketed through the 17 project established FSCs (para. 5.04),
supplemented by the three existing project area ASCS, presently operated by
AISU.
8.15      From the very outset the projects input supply unit would operate on
commercial lines and would eventually merge with AISU. To help AISU become



- 39 -
efficient, the project would provide it with technical assistance to
progressively help it build up its procurement ability and improve its dis-
tribution on a cost-recovery basis. The project's commercial manager will
contribute to the training of AISU's commercial staff, and a Credit and
Cooperative adviser (para 8.08) would be posted at AISU. Since commercial-
ization of the input supply system would largely depend on the Commerical
Services Division's capacity to generate its own revenues, the principle of
allowing full cost recovery for services is important and was therefore
agreed upon with the State during negotiations. In view of the government's
existing fertilizer subsidy policy, however, it may not be possible at project
initiation to impose a mark-up on fertilizer sales, which are expected to be
the single most important revenue generating item representing 80% of turnover.
Consequently, during negotiations it was agreed that any operating losses
incurred by ONRIU, on this account, would be met by the State Government.
Reimbursements by the government for procurement of annual incremental farm
inputs (para 5.35) would be credited to ONRIU trading account, which would be
operated by the Commercial Services Division.
8.16      Farm Credit.  Aside from the limited credit currently supplied by
OYSICC, project area farmers mainly rely for their credit needs on non-
institutional sources, including friends, relatives and at times local
traders. Although at present levels of subsidy the need for project credit is
expected to be minimal, some credit would be required for farmers adopting
the advanced services packages. In fact, for farmers participating in the
advanced services package, availability of credit is considered to be an added
incentive for adoption of advanced farming techniques. In such cases, the
project would liaise closely with OYSICC to ensure an adequate and timely
supply of credit to project farmers. Individual credit needs would be
assessed by OYSICC in conjunction with extension aides and the projects
commercial officer. Although credit needs for project farmers would differ
depending on the type and level of operation, at full development an average
credit (at subsidized costs) for a 2.0 ha and a 5.0 ha advanced farm could be
around N150 and N690 respectively. The annual total short-term credit
need both in kind and in cash for participating farmers is estimated to be
around N1.5 million. The credit needs would be entirely met from OYSICC's
own funds, but given OYSICC's continuing funding problems (para. 8.12),
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the State would ensure that
OYSICC has access to adequate funds to meet the credit requirements of
project area farmers. Such funds can be borrowed under State guarantee from
NACB, which already provides OYSICC with funds to meet its onlending opcra-
tions for cocoa marketing.
Lerms of Lending and Credit Recovery
8.17      Loans made by OYSICC would bear a minimum interest rate of 10%.
This is higher than OYSICC's prevailing interest rates but lower than the
projected Nigerian inflation rate over the project life (15%). Thus under
these conditions, interest rates must be considered subsidized. During the
ongoing dialogue between the Bank and Government on this and other issues
(para 2.17), the Bank has argued the desirability of proceeding towards more
realistic interest rates which would, inter alia, allow for an adequate spread



- 40 -
for the lending institutions, and at the same time, would lead toward more
positive interest rates. On an individual project basis some progress has
been achieved, but Government continues to view its concessionary interest
rate as a means to reduce the farmer's production costs and hence encourage
agricultural investment. Development projects of the type proposed here,
comprising the bulk of recent Bank support to agriculture in Nigeria, contain
proportionately limited and rather insignificant credit components, and thus,
are not considered the best vehicle to bring about changes in the national
agricultural credit policy. At this stage, therefore, it has been agreed
that the previously agreed assurance should be followed and (see Bida and
Ilorin Agricultural Development Loans 1667-UNI; 1668-UNI respectively) that
project interest rates for short-term production credit would be 10% or 2-1/2%
above NACB rate, whichever is higher. This formula allows for automatic
adjustment in the event of any significant general upward adjustment of the
Nigerian interest rate structure. Since the Bank is now exploring with
Government avenues to support future agriculture projects, in which by their
nature, credit, and credit institutions would play a central role, these
projects are expected to provide a better forum to obtain changes in agricul-
tural interest rates within the framework of the country's overall monetary
policy. Credit recovery would be the sole responsibility of OYSICC. The 10%
interest rate to be charged should be adequate to meet OYSICC's credit
administration costs.
D. Post-Project Development
8.18      The development proposals contained in this report are expected
to have a substantial impact on agricultural production and family incomes
during the 5 years of intensive development; such achievement, however, is
meaningful only if accompanied by sufficient institutional reform to ensure
that progress is sustained in the future. Although this is a subject re-
quiring a consensus within Government which cannot be prejudged at this stage,
certain guidelines have been proposed that will call for further amplification
by project management and Federal and State Governments during implementation.
8.19      It is essential that farmers continue to have access to timely
supplies of inputs, and hence it is important that the input supply unit and
the credit agencies are strengthened during the life of the project to become
essentially self-reliant. The present government monopoly and subsidy struc-
ture preclude input organizations, such as AISU from applying an adequate
markup and this also acts as a barrier to the participation of private sector.
It would be an important objective of project management to seek ways in which
the latter could participate in conjunction with the project's newly-
established input supply unit. It is essential that the private sector is
encouraged to expand in such activities as tractor hire services to farmers
and supply of inputs through local retail outlets and sale of improved planting
material. Methods must be evolved which will compensate for the present sub-
sidies, which enable government institutions to operate at uneconomic rates.



- 41 -
8.20      Since activities of the Technical Services Department and Training
Division are likely to remain a continuing government commitment to agricul-
ture, it has been staffed at levels appropriate for the long-term development
needs of the areas. The project area is part of one of four agricultural
administrative zones of the State, and it would be feasible to consider a
second stage under which each zone would come under the charge of a Chief
Agricultural Development Officer, whose responsibilities would correspond to
those of the Project Manager of this project. This is stressed as it is
important to view the project's administration as a possible spearhead to
strengthening the local government structure. The proposed expansion of
Funtua, Gusau, and Gombe Agricultural Development Projects to statewide
operations, currently under appraisal, would provide guidelines for post-
project organization in other states, including Oyo.
8.21      While it is not yet clear how areas of responsibility will finally
settle down between the States and the LGCs, an important role must also be
expected for the recently reformed local government administration. There
is a need for a greatly strengthened mechanism for coordinating planning and
implementation of rural development activities. The logical entity for this
role would be an appropriately staffed local government administration which
would receive technical support from the project and would later be extended
to the zones described above (para 8.20). In particular the LGCs would
take over the road responsibilities of the project (para 6.14). Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that during the fourth year of imple-
mentation the Federal and State Governments, together with the Bank, would
review project progress and plans drawn up by the Evaluation Department (in
conjunction with the Planning Section of APMEPU) and would make recommenda-
tions for the future of project activities.
IX. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
9.01      Using available farm level socio-economic data, four farm models
have been constructed which broadly represent the different cultivation
practices and farm sizes (range 2.0 ha - 5.0 ha) in the project area. All
farm models represent owner-operated farms; in which family labor constitutes
the major input. Incremental farm incomes would depend largely on the crop
combinations as well as the farmer adoption rates, and therefore the farm
models are necessarily hypothetical. Production coefficients for the farm
budgets are those in Chapter VI and farm prices are domestic (1978) retail
market prices, converted to farmgate. Although in actual practice the farmers
investments decision would be influenced, inter alia, by the existing (sub-
sidized input prices), in order to show the effect of a likely removal of
current subsidies on farm level incomes, farm budgets were calculated using
both subsidized and unsubsidized prices. Moreover, in recognition of the lag
in the actual use of inputs, and its associated output; and depending on the
cropping patterns and the working capital needs of each farm type, the cash



- 42 -
flows have been generally presented on a time-adjusted basis. While detailed
farm budgets are presented in Annex 1, Tables 5, 6, 7 and 8 the results are
summarized in Table 5 below:
Table 5. Summary of Farm Budgets
(Unsubsidized Costs)
Farm             Income             Income          Rate
Farm   Farm               Family Income      Per Capita        Per Han-day    of Return
Size   Model              w/o P.   w/P.    w/o P.   w/P.    w/o P.   w/P.          %
------------------Naira ----------------------
I.   2.0   Improved
(manual)           769    1,253    109        179      3.2      4.5        _
II.   2.5   Advanced
(mechanized)       843    1,598    120       228       3.4      5.0        -
III.   2.5   Minimum Tillage
(manual)           843    1,960    120       280       3.4      6.0        -
IV.   5.0   Minimum Tillage
(mechanized)     1,253    2,643    120       377        -        -        56
9.02      The large majority of project area farms would be the 2.0 ha manually
cultivated farm units, each growing a combination of maize, yams, cassava,
sorghum and assorted vegetables. For the 2.0 ha farm models it is assumed
that all labor would be provided by the farm family. The results of the farm
budget analysis in Annex 1, Table 5 shows that a farm family adopting improved
practices for all crops could expect to increase its 'with project' net income
to N2,171 (US$2,002) as against the present of 'without project' income of
N769 (US$1,284). Elimination of subsidies would however, reduce the 'with
project' family income to N1,253 (US$2,092). In terms of return per man-day,
participating farmers would be enabled to increase their returns per manday
from N3.2/day to N4.7/day (N4.5/day net of subsidies). More importantly,
by adopting improved practices, the farm family would be able to employ more
productively its available family labor inasmuch as the 'with' project labor
requirement would be 268 mandays as against 221 mandays under traditional
cultivation practices an increase of about 22%. Provided participating
farmers receive a timely supply of inputs (including credit) the estimated
average annual net farm income in terms of end-1978 prices is adequate to
induce a fairly widespread adoption of BSP, particularly sinc:e there is
minimal risk for the farmer in moving away from the traditional to the improved
(BSP) production technique.
9.03      About 6% of the participating farmers in the project area are
expected to adopt fully or partly the advanced cultivation techniques de-
scribed in Chapter VI, paras 6.03-6.06. The three most common types of ASP
operations are expected to be: the 2.5 ha farmers would either use minimum
tillage (manual) or conventional mechanical tillage (including a fallow
period) and the relatively larger farmers (average farm size 5 ha) would use



- 43 -
mechanized minimum tillage (Annex l Table 8). The adoption of minimum cul-
tivation practices are expected to have the following three major advantages.
Firstly, it eliminates the need for non-productive fallowing. Secondly,
mechanical cultivation costs are reduced, albeit somewhat offset by increased
herbicide costs. And finally, available evidence indicates that, with the
introduction of minimum tillage, the soil is protected and 'elds rise
markedly from year to year, easily exceeding those on conventional plots.
9.04      Farmers adopting advanced cultivation practices (ASP) would need
to hire some additional labor, as the farm family (6.5 persons) on a 2.5 ha
advanced farm is assumed to contribute a total of 30 mandays/month, while
the peak (monthly) requirements are estimated at some 40 mandays. All hired
labor, has been costed at N2.0 day. The results of the farm budget analysis,
presented in Annex 1, Tables 6 and 7, and summarized in Table 5 above shows
that a 2.5 ha advanced mechanized farm, using AISU's tractor services (fully
costed) and using modern inputs would be able to increase the net farm family
income at full development from the present N843 (US$1,408) to N1,598
(US$2,669). Alternatively for the same farm size (2.5 ha), but using manual
minimum tillage practices, the farm family can increase its net income to
N1,960 (US$3,273). Although it is apparent that the "with project" net
income for the farm using mechanized services is relatively lower than for
manual minimum tillage, the former cultivation method would initially be
preferred by the farmer - this is not simply because tractor services are
currently heavily subsidized, but also because mechanization helps overcome
the drudgery attached to farming. Another important decision factor which may
prevent a more rapid and widespread adoption of minimum tillage could be that
the techniques are as yet unproven and risks are relatively higher. The size
of ASP program has, therefore, been kept relatively small and would be con-
sidered as a pilot program.
9.05      The 5.0 ha minimum tillage farm budget Annex 1, Table 8 illustrate
the financial advantages of adopting mechanical minimum tillage practices on
a relatively large scale. The estimated internal financial rate of return for
this investment is 56%. This rate of return is however, quite sensitive to a
decline in yields (or prices), for example with benefits declining by 25% the
investments rate of return drops to 10%. The relatively high rate of return
should therefore be only taken as broadly indicative of the profitability of
this enterprise. Furthermore, minimum tillage is still in its experimental
stage (para. 5.05), and the risk element is high; hence the likelihood of a
relatively high rate of return is only necessary to induce farmer interest and
to make him risk neutral. Aside from the purely financial advantages of
minimum tillage on a 5 ha farm, an additional benefit is that the farm family
labor is fully employed on the farm. In summary, farms budgets for all types
of advanced farms shows that the net farm income after debt service, is
commensurate with the size of loans obtained (para. 8.16), and the inherent
risks attached to the proposed cropping patterns. Thus in the long term
farmer response to improved technology is expected to be quite high.
9.06      Comparisons of per capita incomes based on farm budgets with income
data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with caution
under the best of circumstances. This is particularly true in Nigeria where



- 44 -
recent national accounts are unavailable and moreover available estimates are
often unreliable mainly due to the use of conflicting GDP deflators. Never-
theless such a comparison will give a rough indication of the relative economic
position of project beneficiaries. According to latest Bank estimates Nigeria's
national income per capita in 1978 was N335 or US$560. The present per capita
income of project area farmers N109 (US$182) cultivating 2.0 to 2.5 ha, and
growing a mixture of cash and subsistence crops (maize, cassava, yams, cowpeas)
is almost one third of the national average income, which means that project
area farmers constitute the relative poverty group. With the project, per
capita incomes ranging from N179 (US$299) and N280 (US$468) would represent
a significant improvement above average present conditions. These comparisons
indicate that the project would not only increase incomes of a larger number
of poor farmers in the project area but would help narrow the income gap
between the project area and other parts of the country, and between urban and
rural areas.
B. Financial Implications to Government
9.07       The project does not increase directly generated revenue to Govern-
ment as there are no taxes or cesses on farmers' produce. However, evidence
from the ongoing projects suggests that considerable secondary economic
activity develops in the non-agricultural sectors in the project area, and
there is a marked increase in spending on the part of beneficiaries on consumer
goods and services offered by the private sector. Thus, considerable increases
in indirect taxation can be expected, but the quantification of the increased
taxation is not possible. The fiscal implication to the State and Federal
Government over the development period is, however outlined in the Financing
Plan at Annex 2 Table 3. Thereafter, to maintain the projected level of
agricultural activity and production in the project area the Government would
need to spend about $2.0 million per annum (constant 1985 terms). This
includes recurrent expenditures such as extension, training and other sup-
porting infrastructure.
Cost Recovery
9.08      Under present Government policy, farm inputs are highly subsidized;
fertilizer is subsidized at about 80% while improved seeds are sold at a
subsidy equivalent to about 50%. Despite Government's policy restraining a
full cost recovery for some agricultural inputs, wherever possible efforts
would be made to make full cost recovery. Under the project, the unsubsidized
portion of fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides, maize cribs and tools would
be sold to smallholders at a price which would cover all handling costs (para
8.15). FGN or OYSG would reimburse the project for the subsidized portion of
the inputs sold to smallholders. Likewise, participants would be charged
commercial rates for herbicide application and tractor hire. The farm budget
analysis (paras 9.02-9.05) shows that the 'with project' incomes of project
farmers would be adequate to meet the full cost of farm inputs and services.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all inputs and custom
hire services provided by the project to participating farmers would be sold



- 45 -
at a sufficient level to recover the cost of those inputs and services, except
in those instances where an official subsidy is applied. In the latter case,
the Federal and/or State Government would, where warranted, refund ONPMU in
advance the value of the anticipated subsidy no later than September 30th of
the previous year (para. 5.35).
X. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Prolect Benefits
10.01     The project would meet the Government's objective of increasing food
crop production, and improving rural incomes, at a cost per benefiting family
of about X538 (about US$900), excluding costs due to expected price increases.
In addition, project improvements would also benefit urban areas, because the
rate of rural migration may be expected to decline as rural life became more
attractive.
10.02     By providing an assured supply of modern farm inputs, improved
extension services and better market access, the proposed project would
support directly by year 5 increased production from 45,000 ha. Some 70% of
the project area farm families, or approximately 360,000 people would directly
benefit from the project. The introduction of simple technological improve-
ments in production would help raise farm productivity, thus improving farm
incomes (para. 9.06) and also the overall food supply situation in the State.
An expansion in local food supplies should improve nutritional standards and,
both directly and indirectly, reduce reliance upon outside food supplies. The
incremental annual production at full development is estimated to be 40,000
m/tons in grain equivalent, which is valued (at 1980 constant economic prices)
at US$10.9 million. Since Nigeria is a net importer of food, incremental
project production would be effective import substitution. After deducting
the incremental cost of imported fertilizers and agro-chemicals, incremental
production- (in cereal equivalent) at full development, if valued at forecasted
border prices, would result in net annual foreign exchange savings of about
US$6.2 million.
10.03     The project's contribution to employment would stem mainly from the
regular work generated at the farm level and also from the jobs created during
the investment period. The mechanical package has been designed in a manner
that, although it would facilitate land expansion, there would be no real
labor displacement. In fact, as would be seen from the labor profiles in the
project file Working Paper Cl and farm budgets at Annex 1, Tables 6, 7 and 8,
improved cultivation methods or minimum tillage practices would result in
raising farm labor productivity - which would inter alia, reduce underemploy-
ment and help smooth cycles in farm operations. At full development and for
each year thereafter the project would require an annual total of 4,600
man-years. More than 80% of this labor would be provided by farm families
while the rest would come from hired labor either on a permanent or part-time
basis. The total incremental on-farm employment generated by the project



- 46 -
during the five-year investment period would be about 15,000 man-years. This
should not provide a unmanageable labor demand pressure, because even though
the project assumes that on average a farm family works 20 days/monthly the
total family labor input could increase to 30 manday per month (1.5 mandays/per
day). Furthermore there are no other major agricultural or industrial develop-
ments planned in or near the project area, which could compete for project
labor.
10.04     Among some of the non-quantifiable benefits of the project are the
improved rural water supplies resulting from investments in construction of
40 small or medium dams and 300 village wells (para. 5.19). It is estimated
that all year round potable water would be available to 125,000 people residing
in the near vicinity of the water sources. The provision of relatively pure
water would help improve rural health by reducing the prevalence of some
waterborne disease (para. 4.06).
10.05     On the institutional side, by fostering appropriate organizations
and training of technical staff, the project would help improve the capabili-
ties of Oyo State MANR for implementing and planning future state-wide rural
development projects. More specifically, project support for AISU would help
the commercial development of state-wide support services (para. 8.14) and
which would ultimately lead AISU to become a self-financing farmer company.
10.06     One of the more important institutional features of the project is
the high priority given to training. Following the experience with existing
projects in Northern Nigeria, the Staff Development Officer would be a key
project staff member, and one of the first in post. Financial allocation
(Table 1) to training also reflects this priority. The benefits of training
would not only be restricted to project staff, but cooperative staff, farmers
and LGC staff would also benefit. Training assistance to LGC would include
special technical assistance and consultancy to strengthen their financial
capability (para. 5.27) -- this would pave the way for possible decentraliza-
tion of project activities in the post-project period.
B. Economic Rate of Return
10.07     The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the overall project is es-
timated to be 20% (Annex 3, Table 3). Further, assuming a discount rate
of 11%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Nigeria, the economic
net present value (NPV) of project investment in 1980 terms is N22.0 million
(US$27.0 million). Assumptions underlying the economic rate of return cal-
culation are at Annex 3, Pages 1 and 2.
10.08     Since the Bank is currently reviewing the relevant national economic
parameters for use in the economic analysis of projects in Nigeria, specific
or standard conversion factors have not been used for estimating this project's
ERR. However, in order to guard against any likely estimation errors, the two
most important economic parameters, namely the shadow exchange rate and the
economic opportunity cost of farm labor, were tested to measure the sensitivity



- 47 -
of the project to varying assumptions about these parameters (for results see
para. 10.12). In view of Nigeria's increasing net protectionist policies and
its high rates of domestic inflation relative to those of its trading partners,
it is most likely that in the future either the Naira's value would need to
be adjusted downward, or existing trade restrictions would be increased. The
latter option would in effect imply a widening gap between the SER and the
official exchange rate (OER), which would approximately offset the effects of
differential rates of inflation in the ERR (as would progressive exchange rate
adjustment).
10.09     There is no organized rural labor market in or around the project
area which could provide a reasonable estimate of the opportunity cost of farm
labor. Furthermore, the demand for agricultural labor is highly seasonal, and
even if information on wages were available, due to wage rigidities and the
thinness of the labor market, etc. the observed wage rate may be quite different
from its economic value. In the project area, even though the majority of
farms are owner operated, there is some degree of hiring out of labor during
the slack season. The average wage for an eight hour day during this season is
N2.0. Assuming this wage is a fair measure of labor's marginal productivity,
the opportunity cost of labor (OCL) for the project is estimated to be N2.0
per man-day. This estimate of the opportunity cost of labor results in a value
which is in accordance with the other independent measures of the OCL, such
as: (i) the marginal productivity of labor on traditional farms, as indicated
by the available farm management studies and the farm budget analysis in
Chapter IX, paras. 9.01 - 9.06; and (ii) the government's official minimum
wage of N2.0 per man-day (including a subsistence allowance), which is the
wage at which employment is available on government farm and seed nurseries.
C. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
10.10     Sensitivity analysis was used to determine which variables would be
most crucial to the success of the project. As a measure, the crossover value
was used. The crossover value is the value of the variable tested for which
NPV discounted at 11% is zero and is a measure of how far the variable can
differ from its most likely value before the project becomes economically
unacceptable. The crossover value may therefore also be interpreted as the
value of the variable tested, beyond which the economic rate of return would
be below the estimated opportunity cost of capital -- 11% in Nigeria.
10.11     The numerical results are presented in Annex 3, Table 4, which
shows that overall the project is fairly resilient and is largely insensitive
to adverse variations in the assumptions. The success of the project is,
however, most sensitive to future yield development especially for yams and
cassava, which constitute the bulk of project induced production. The other
variables tested would have to differ widely from their most likely values to
effect the viability of the project. The probability of critical variations
is discussed below.



- 48 -
(a) Yields. The crossover value of aggregate output is about
25% below the expected incremental production. Since both
ecological as well as edaphic factors are favorable, and
the proposed technologies are relatively simple, even the
occurrence of some bad agricultural years would not result
in aggregate output being equal to its crossover value.
Amongst individual crops, the project is especially sensitive
to the attainment of targeted yam yields. The crossover yam
yield is 9.0 tons/ha as against the appraisal yield estimate
of 7 and 11 tons/ha for unimproved and improved crop. Initial
yield results from the agricultural development projects in
Central Nigeria (e.g. Ayangba ADP), have shown output per
hectare for yams to average around 15.0 tons. Given that
the proposed technology for yam production is well tested,
it is most unlikely that incremental yields over the life
of the project would be so low as to cause the project to
fail economically. Nevertheless, to minimize this risk,
the attainment of target yields would be a prime objective
for project management and a major focus of attention for
supervision missions. Finally, close monitoring and
evaluation will be an additional safeguard. The project is
relatively insensitive to lower cassava and maize yields. The
technology for both these crops is well tested, and farmers in
the project area are already well accustomed to cultivating
these crops. Sensitivity tests show that at full development
cassava yields would have to be about 7 tons/ha before the project
becomes economically unacceptable at 11%. The without project
average yields are estimated to be equal to the threshold (7
tons/ha) and hence the probability of cassava yields being 93%
below the most likely values is near zero.
(b) Prices. In Nigeria, prices of non-traded commodities like
yams, cassava and cowpeas are quite firm and are expected to
increase further (para. 7.D4). Any reduction in benefits is
therefore most likely to occur because of yield decreases
explained above. As regards input prices, crossover values
were estimated for a likely increase in the price of fer-
tilizers. Results indicate that the forecasted price of
fertilizers would have to deviate by 123% before the project
becomes unviable. Project fertilizer prices are based on
projections by the Bank's Commodities Division and it is
unlikely that actual prices will differ as much as 20%, which
corresponds to the index of fluctuations of fertilizer prices
in the past 5 years. However, when tested to a fertilizer
price increase of 20%, the project's net present value is
reduced to N18.4 million.
(c) Adoption Rates. Given the nature of small holder farming, it
is difficult to predict the exact level of farmer response.
However, in order to evaluate the potential impact on the
project's value of a lower than predicted farmer adoption rate,



- 49 -
a crossover value was calculated. Only if the area under
improved production were reduced by 41% from 45,500 ha to
26,800 ha would the project become economically unviable. An
overall farmer adoption rate of 60% of proposed technology is
considered realistic: (1) in light of past experience with
similar smallholder foodcrop projects in northern Nigeria, and
(2) that the major thrust of the project is to promote the
BSP, which is not too radical a departure from the farmers
traditional cultivation practices.
(d)  Shadow Exchange Rate.  Since only about 40% of project costs,
and some 20% of total incremental benefits representing traded
commodities (maize, sorghum) were adjusted by the SER, the
project shows very little sensitivity to the choice of exchange
rate. For example, a SER of US$1 - Nl reduces the project's
NPV to N18.0. However, only an 55% decrease in the economic
value of the Naira (US$1=N1.85) would result in an unviable
project. In effect, this would mean a 64% devaluation of the
Naira from its current official exchange rate (US$1=NO.60).
The probability of such a radical policy measure is however
extremely low.
(e) Economic Wage Rate. The results showed almost no sensitivity
to this variable. The crossover economic wage rate is over
two and a half times (N5.0) the assumed opportunity cost
of labor.
10.12     Risks.  There are no unusual project risks.  Project organization
is structured within the state's existing agricultural zonal admnistration
(para. 8.01) and implementation problems are expected to be minimal. However,
the fact that this project, unlike earlier ADPs, would engage a firm of
consultants to provide senior project staff, could result in some delays. In
recognition of this likelihood, the contracting of a consulting firm satisfac-
tory to the Bank has been made a condition of loan effectiveness. Failure
to achieve anticipated yield levels at full development, especially for the
advanced services package is a potential risk. However, the project's basic
technical packages are fairly simple, well-tested both at the research station
and farm level -- therefore it is not likely that production and yield results
will be less than anticpated. For the advanced services package, risks are
mainly confined to the initial stages of technology adoption, when farmers may
be somewhat hesitant to accept an entirely new technology. Some technical
difficulties may be experienced at the introductory stage; however, in the
long term the importance of providing a stable farming system which could help
check the appalling deterioration of the Savanna areas is so vital that it far
outweighs any associated risks.



- 50 -
XI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOIMENDATIONS
11.01     During negotiations, the following principal assurances were
obtained:
(a)  OYSG would review annually with LGC's and ONPMU, the arrange-
ments for maintenance of road and water facilities and staff
training requirements. On the basis of this review OYSG would
provide the LGC's in advance with adequate funds for the above
purpose (para. 5.17);
(b) all consultants would be appointed with conditions of employ-
ment qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank (para. 5.28);
(c) ONPMU would submit the BPCC-approved annual budget to FMA,
MANR and the Bank at least four months prior to each fiscal
year. FGN and OYSG would provide at least 3 months in advance
their quarterly contributions to the project in accordance
with the approved annual budget (para. 5.34);
(d) Bank disbursements would be made directly to ONPMU'S commercial
bank account (para. 5.34);
(e) ONPMU would be authorized to establish overdraft facilities
equivalent to six months' project expenditures as estimated
in the annual state budget, and the overdraft would be
guaranteed by OYSG (para. 5.34);
(f) ONPMU would receive in advance (the previous September)
subventions from FGN and OYSG to cover the estimated cost
of fertilizer and insecticide subsidies (para. 5.35);
(g) Project operating expenses are incremental to estimated
existing government recurrent expenditures of N900,000
per annum. OYSG would continue disbursing these funds
to the project in addition to the incremental requirements
shown in para. 5.35;
(h)  audited accounts of ONPHU together with the auditors report
including a statement as to whether Bank funds had been used for
their intended purposes would be submitted to the Bank within four
months of the end of the fiscal year (para 5.38);
(i) fertilizer procurement under ICB would be undertaken according
to a strict timetable agreed between FGN and the Bank, who
would jointly monitor progress, and the system of procurement
by CFU would be reviewed after two years (para. 6.07);



- 51 -
(j) MANR would give high priority to ONPMU staff recruitment
and as far as possible promptly accede to ONPHU requests for
secondment of MANR technical and other staff to the project.
(k) responsibility for all agricultural extension work in the
project area would be transferred to ONPMU no later than
April 1, 1980 (para. 8.04);
(1) according to the agreed recruitment procedures persons (listed
at para. 8.08) wiould be appointed on terms and conditions and
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank
(para. 8.08-8.09);
(m)  OYSG would guarantee that adequate funds would be available to
OYSICC to enable it to meet the credit needs of project area
farmers (para. 8.16);
(n) short-term production loans would bear an interest rate of 10%
per annum or 2.5% above NACB's maximum current lending rate,
whichever is higher (para. 8.17);
(o) no later than Dec. 31, 1985, FGN, OYSG and the Bank would
review and make recommendations for the future of project
activities (para 8.21); and
(p) all inputs and custom hire services provided by ONPMU to
participating farmers would be charged at sufficient level
to recover the cost to ONPMU of the inputs and their handling,
except in those instances where an official subsidy is applied
(paras. 9.08 and 5.10).
11.02     Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) a separate bank account for the project with an initial
deposit of N2.0 million had been opened with Nl.0 million
deposited by the State and Nl.0 million by the Federal
Government (para. 5.39);
(b) BPCC and ONPMU had been established through an official
gazette, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
(para. 8.03);
(c) the Project Manager and the Chief Accountant had been
appointed (para. 8.09); and
(d) the signing of a contract agreement between OYSG and
a consulting firm acceptable to the Bank (para. 8.09).
11.03     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$28.0 million.



OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DLVELOPNENS PROJECT
Inputa and Metimated yields
PHYSICAL
Insecticide
Product           Yield           Seed                     Fertiliter                             Inaecticid
C-moA   Nitjrogen   Potash               S        Field -  store -        Herbicide -          Labor
-----------------------------------        Kg -------------------------------------------------------------------------i1n-Isys
Maize
Unimproved                       Grain               800             15                             -                           -        -          - _                               80
Improved                                          1,500              20               200           -          -              0.08      -         2.2               -                99
Advanced (Mechanized)                             2,400              20               200           200        -              0.08       -        2.2              2.5                70
Advanced (Manual Minimum                          2,400              20               200           200        -              0.08       -        2.2            1+2.5                75
Tillage)
Advanced (Mechanized Minimum                      2,400              20               200           200        -               0.08      -        2.2            1+2.5                64
Tillage)
Yams
Unimproved                      Fresh Tubers       7,000           1500                 -                                         -  -   -           -               -               178
Improved                                         11,000            2000               200           -          -                20      -           -                -              235        En
Casava
Unimproved                      Fresh Tubers       7-000             -                  -                                       -        -           -               -               116
Improved                                          9,000              20l              100            -         -                -        -           -               -               145
Advanced (Mechanized)                             14,000                              300            -          -               -        -           -           See Naize           135
Advanced (Manual Minimum Tillage)                 14,000             2US
Advanced (Mechanized Minimum Tillage)             14,000             20-              300                                                                                            itS
Cowpeas
Unimproved                      Grain                 100             9               300                                                                                             79
(with maize at 800 kg ha)
Advanced                                              500            12                150           -          -               -                    -           See Maize            79
Sorghum
Unimproved                      Grain                 500            12                 -            -          -               -         -          -               -                75
Improved                                              800            15                _           100          -             0.04        -         2.2              _                84
1/ Basis Aldrsx T for grains; Aldrin 2.5 for yams sette.
1 Basis Pyrotbroids (1.5 ba. A.I.) + Thiodan (3.5 kg. A. 1.) in four sprays.
31  Besisa Cmnelin 20.
4/  Baed on Atrazimn  (2.5 kg. Al/ha) for advanced _mchanIzed production and
Atrazine (2.5 Ug. Al/ha) plus paraquot (1 kg Al/ha) for minim, till.$, three years plus Clyphoe-to
(3 kg  Al/ha) every 4th year.  For details see Project File.
5/  NSe Proa  ct File  for di  iled tabour raqi ir o  nt.                                                                                                                                         _ 
6/  Norm jl chFrge for idproved    larieties of U201na.
may 15, 1979



-53                                   ANNEX I
Table 2
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
ha's
Year 0    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
Maize
Unimproved                    58,500    57,000    55,000    53,000    50,000    46,500    46,000
Improved                       1,500      3,000     4,000     5,000      7,000     8,000     8,000
Advanced (Mechanized)            -           -      1,000     1,500      2,000     3,000     3,000
Minimum Tillage (Manual)          -          -        -        1,000     1,500     2,000     2,500
Minimum Tillage (Mechanized)      -          -        -          500     1,000     2,000     3,000
Yams
Unimproved                     39,000    28,000    36,000    34,000    32,000    30,000    30,000
Improved                       1,000      2,000     4,000     6,000      8,000    10,000    10,000
Cassava
Unimproved                    39,000    38,000    34,000    31,000    29,000    25,000    25,000
Improved                        1,000     2,000     6,000     7,500      9,000    12,000    12,000
Advanced (Mechanized)             -          -        -          500     1,000     1,000     1,000
Minimum Tillage (Manual)          -          -        -          500       500     1,000     1,000
Minimum Tillage (Mechanized)      -          -        -          500       500     1,000     1,000
Sorghum
Unimproved                     15,000    14,500    14,000    13,500    13,000    12,000    12,000
Improved                         -          500     1,000     1,500      2,000     3,000     3,000
Tobacco                         2,500     2,500     2,500     2,500      2,500     2,500     2,500
Cowpeas/Maize                  5,000      4,750     4,500     4,250      4,000     3,500     3,500
Cowpeas
Improved                         -          250       500        750     1,000     1,500     1,500
Other Crops                   17,500    17,500    17,500    17,500    17,500    17,500    17,500



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP PRODUCTION PROJECTIONS
Tons
Year 0    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6
Maize
Gross Production             53050      53900     56800      60500      64500      68800      72000
Storage Losses                5305       5390      5680       6050       6450       6880       7200
Seed Retention                 982        986       1008      1019       1040       1050       1073
Net Production               46763      47524      50112     53431      57010      60870      63727
Home Consumption  ./         28800      28800      28800     28800      28800      28800      28800
Marketed Surplus             17963      18724      21312     24631      28210      32070      34927
Incremental Production         -          761       3349      6668      10247      14107      16964
Yams
Gross Production            284000    288000    296000    304000    312000    320000    320000
Storage Losses               56800      57760     59200      60800      62400      64000      64000
Seed Retention               60500     61000      62000      63000      64000      65000      65000
Net Production              166700    169240    174800    180200    185600    191000    191000
Home Consumption l/          43200      43200     43200      43200      43200      43200      43200
Marketed Surplus            123500    126040    131600    137000    142400    147800    147800
Incremental Production         -         2540      8100      13500      18900      24300      24300
Cassava
Gross Production            282000    284000    292000    305500    312000    325000    325000
Storage Losses               28200      28400     29200      30550      31200      32500      32500
Net Production              253800    255600    262800    274950    280800    292500    292500
Home Consumption -           67200      67200     67200      67200      67200      67200      67200
Marketed Surplus            186600    188400    195600    207750    213600    225300    225300
Incremental Production         -         1800      9000      21150      27000      38700      38700
Cowpeas
Gross Production               500        625        700       800        900       1100       1100
Storage Losses                  75         94        105       120        135        165        165
Net Production  1              425        531        595       680        765        935        935
Home Consumption-              - 
Marketed Surplus               -           -          -          -         -          -          -
Incremental Production         -          106        170       255        340        510        510
Sorghum
Gross Production              7500       7650       7800      7950       8050       8400       8400
Storage Losses                 750        765        780        795       805        840        840
Seed Retention                 180        182        183       185        186        189        189
Net Production    /           6570       6703       6837      6970       7059       7371       7371
Home Consumption -           14400      14400      14400     14400      14400      14400      14400
Marketed Surplus             (7830)    (7697)    (7563)    (7430)    (7341)    (7029)    (7029)
Incremental Production         -          133        267        400       489        801        801
1/ Based on approximate per capita consumption of 30 kg maize, 150 kg (fresh) yams
175 kg cassava, 1 kg cowpeas per annum.



NlGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Incremental Farm Tinput Requitements
Upto
Units     Year 0      Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 20 _
Agro Chemicals
Compound                 Tons        600      1,238       2,475       4,113       5,550       7,325       7,625      7,625
CAN                      Tons         -           50        300         750       1,100       1,700      2,000       2,000
Aldrex T                  kg          -          140        320         580         880       1,200       1,320       1,320
Aldrin 2.5%               kg          -      20,000      60,000    100,000    140,000    180,000    180,000    180,000
Gammelin 20               kg          -       4,400       9,900      17,600      26,400      36,300      39,600      39,600
Atrazine                  kg  A.I    -           -        1,250       5,000      10,000      10,000      10,500     10,000
Primextra                 kg  A.I    -           -          -         3,750       5,000       7,500       7,500       7,500
Paraquot                  kg  A.I    -           -          -         1,500       2,500       2,500       3,000      4,000             1
Glyphosate                kg  A.I    -           -          _-                      -         4,500      10,500      6,000             k
Equipment
Hand Planters 1/          No          -          -          -_           50          25          25          25          25
CDA Sprayers 2/           No          -           25          25        425         250         275         300        .300
Batteries                 Sets 8      -          100        200       1,900       2,800       4,500       4,500       4,500
Maize Cribs               M3          -          -          -         2,400       2,400       2,400       2,400       2,400
1/ Based on one planter for 20 ha's of manual minimum tillage Cmaize).
2/ Based on one to 2.5 ha of manual minimum tillage (maize) plus 1 to 10 ha cowpeas.
3/ One M3 hold 1/2 ton of grain and cost N20 (model 2 IITA using teak poles).
0ul



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Table 5
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1:2.0 Hectare Improved Farm Budget (Manual Cultivation)
Naira)
Without              With             With
Item                                 Project 1/          Project          Project
(Unsubsidized)    (Subsidized)
Income                                                        - - at full development - -
Production 2/
Crop              Area        Price/ton
Maize           (0.6 ha)      N240             115                 216             216
Cassava         (0.4 ha)      N 80             224                 288             288
Yam             (0.4 ha)      N238             666               1,047           1,047
Maize/Cowpeas  (0.1 ha)       N240/N575         25                  65              65
Sorghum         (0.2 ha)      N200              20                  32              32
Other crops    (0.3 ha)       n.v.           n.v.               n.v.             n.v.
Gross Production Value                       1,050              1.648            1,648
Less:  On-farm Storage Losses  /              (172)               (135)           (135)
Seasonal Credit in Kind 4/                      -                   68              26
Seasonal Cash Credit 51                         -                   95              95
Total Revenues                                 878               1.676           1,634
Expenditures
Cost of Production 6/
Fertilizers                                     -                   54              12
Seeds                                          155                 203             203
Herbicides                                      -                   14              14
Storage                                          5                   5               4
Tools                                            5                   5               5
Total Expenditures                             165                 281             238
A.  Net Farm Income:  before debt service    713                   1,395           1,396
Debt Service i-                                                (179)            (133)
B.  Net Benefit:  after debt service             713               1,216           1,263
On-farm Man-days 8/                          221                 268             268
C.  Net Return per Man-day                         3.2                 4.5             4.7
Farm Family Income
On-farm Income                               713              1,216            1,263
Off-farm Income 9/                            50                  37              37
D.  Net Farm Family Income                       763               1,253           1.300
E.  Net Income Per Capita                        109                 179              186
In US$ (official exchange)                  TM                   m               7
1/ Using traditional cultivation practices and no modern inputs.
2/ For per hectare gross vroduction margins, see Annex 1, table 1.
3/  On-farm storage losses without project - yams 20%, other crops 10%;
with project - yams lOZ, other crops 5%.
4/  In case of unsubsidized input costs, all fertilizers and herbicides supplied
on credit.
5/  50% of improved seeds costs provided as cash credit, at a flat interest rate of 10%
p.a. to be recovered over 12 months.
6/ For per ha cost of production, see project working file C 3.
7/  Short term (12 month) seasonal credit bears a 10% p.a. service charge.
8/  For labor profile, see project file.C 1-
9/ Total available farm family labor 360 man-days/annum; only 20% of residual
on-farm labor assumed to obtain off-farm wage employment at N2.0 per man-day.
n.v. - not valued
1/9/79



57                                    ANMX 1
Table 6
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2: 2.5 Hectare Farm Budget Minimum Tillage (Manual)
(Naira)
Without             With              With
Item                                Project             Project          Project
(Unsubsidized)    (Subsidized)
Income                                                        - - at full development - -
Production 1/
Crop              Area        Price/ton
Maize           (1.2 ha)         N240          230                 691
Yams            (0.4 ha)        N238           666               1,047
Cassava         (0.4 ha)        N 80           224                 448
Cowpeas         (0.4 ha)        N575            23                 184
Other           (0.2 ha)           -         n.v.               n.v.
Fallow          (0.2 ha)           -           -
Gross Production Value           2/          1,143               2,370           2,370
Less:  On-farm Storage Losses -               (180)               (171)            (171)
Seasonal Credit in Kind 31/                     -                  226             130
Seasonal Cash Credit 4-                                             45              45
Total Farm Income                              963               2,470           2,374
Expenditures
Cost of Production _/
Fertilizers                                     -                  137              41
Seeds                                          160                 261             215
Herbicides                                      -                   70              70
Storage                                          5                  19              19
Tools (including sprayer)                        5                  10              10
Hired labor  6/                                                     49              49
Total Expenditures                             170                 546             404
A.  Net Farm Income:  before debt service    793                   1,924           1,970
Debt Service                                                    ( C298>         (i9
B.  Net Farm Income:  after debt service         793               1,626           1,777
On-farm Man-days i/                          236                 271             271
C.  Net Return per Man-day                         3.4                 6.0              6.6
Farm Family Income
On-farm Income  7                            793              1,924            1,970
Off-farm Income _/                            50                  36              36
D.  Total Farm Family Income                     843               1,960            2,006
E.  Net Income Per Capita                        120                 280              286
In US$ (official exchange)                   185                 431             440
1/  For per hectare gross production margins and physical coefficients, see Annex I,table 1.
2/  On-farm storage losses without project - yams 20%, other crops 10%; with
project storage losses - yams 10%, other crops 5%.
3/  Seasonal production credit (in kind) for unsubsidized fertilizers, herbicides
and storage costs; credit for subsidized inputs represents cost of herbicides,
fertilizers and storage.
4/ Cash credit (12 months) for cost of hired labor supplied by OYSICC recoverable
at 10% p.a. interest rate.
5/ For per hectare cost of production, see project working file C 3.
6/  For labor profile, see project file C J. cwx-farm man-days include
estimated labor for other minor crops not valued.
7/ Total available farm family labor 360 man-days/annum; only 20% of residual
on-farm labor assumed to obtain off-farm wage employment at N2.0 per man-day.
n.v. - not valued.
3/6/80



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
NIGERIA                                   Table 7
OTO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3: 2.5 Hectare Farm Budget Advanced Mechanized Tillage
(constant 1978 Naira Terms)
Item                                    Without        With           With
Project-i    Project         Project
(Unsubsidized) (Suibsidized)
Income                                                   -- at full development --
Production-
Crop              Area        Price/ton
Maize             ZT.2 ha)      N240            230         691
Cassava           (0.4 ha)      N 80            224         448
Yam               (0.4 ha)      N238            666        1047
Cowpeas           (0.4 ha)      N575             23         184
Other             (0.2 ha)                      n.v.       n.v.
Fallow            (0.2 ha)                       -          -
Grogs Production Value          2/            1.143       2.370          2.370
Less:  On-farm Storage Losses -                (180)       (171)          (171)
Seasonal Credit in Kind 3/                       -          200            104
Seasonal Cash Credit 4/                          -          132             82
Total Farm Income                               963       2.531          2.3B5
Expenditure
Cost of Production 5/
Tractor Hire                                    -           100             49
Fertilizers                                     -           137             41
Seeds                                          160          261            215
Herbicides                                      -            44             44
Storage (insecticides/cribs)                     5           19            J.9
Tools(including sprayer etc.)                    5            5              5
Hired Labor 6/                                  -            33             33
Total Expenditure                                170          599            406
A.  Net Farm Income:before debt service          793         1,932         1,979
Debt Service 7/                               -           (365)         (205)
B.  Net Farm Income:After debt Service           793         1,567         1.774
On-farm man-days 6/                          236           283           283
C. Net Return per man-day                        3.4           5.5           6.3
D. Net Return per hectare                        330           653           740
Farm family Income
On-farm Income                               793        1,567         1,774
Off-farm  Income 8/                           50            31            31
E.  Net Farm Family Income                       843         1,598         1,805
F.  Net Income Per Capita                        120           228           258
1/  For per hectare gross production margin and phsyical coefficients see Annex 1
Table 1.
2/  On farm storage losses without project - yams 20% other crops  10%
with project yams  10%  other crops 5S
3/  Seasonal short term (12 months) production credit for covers cost of
fertilizers, herbicides and storage
4/  Seasonal cash credit supplied by OYSICC for hired labor and AISUI's
tractor services
5/  For per hectare cost of production seeJtVrjct working file C 3.
6/  For labor profiles see project working file C 1   V
7/ Both cash and kind credit at a flat interest rate of 10 p.a.,
recoverable by OYSICC.
8/  Total available family farm labor 360 man days/annum, only 20% of
residual on-farm labor assumed to obtain wage employment
n. v. not valued



IL.   ?  .0  I..1.4    4.               .  ,11-
P-.4-t-0141,I
--------            (0...... h             --0--------      1.                                    104                                                     -         (0?          .0
0  .0 h,.)       I55S..SI05                                                                                                                  0
IoU...  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
4l... Fl.d00L1L. V.0..)( . 0l . 47                                                                      ILl)        (.044      3 hi)       4 II?       i.!!       4.11)                   0.244         534)          4 100          4 110. 12  -  -0  IL
0(2 0411. (00a  50 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~I12                                                                            13           2          I.1                                             6              I             O1
00101 ('LI...                                              1340                                      j~~~~~~~~3j  jJ)~~~    ~         ~ ~           4 II?         IS)      1.2fl       jJ~~~~~~~      3 hi?        AJ1~~itsi.1iiISOiIO              lO
jI                                                                                        0I-                                                                                                  0          0)           I            -                 
0.L   -I.t   SlIt                                                                                  "I0                                       -        I...          ISO         1)4,                 L..                     1.4.0         jILl          L.-0          I(1
0.041112..t(...oII.Id.o                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            (4         35012      0111 .I     (507        12                      (4         (1011         11)            350           LI"
*                4           0         00          1)                                 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I4      1         1             I
0..).                                               5                                         5           1           1           1                                  5           5             $             5             5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3#  $  1  )z4
0.1.1 IL.4411.bo                                                    004                                   J4fl        i0*.fl~~~~~  Mfl        1.04!       (.1(0       2)00       1(42        loLl           IS))          ).fli         1.4(4         2.04? M  IS
I..o..I.l  4...11I                                                   -                                      0(00)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.3  1310  1.000  1 J5  I-in1  10(     11,0         SO          j-14Dl        j l           ( 1.31 tIS.3
21000104150. .0 4    13m                  0..4I'mIAIfd 00 1.0        1        1.0.4hiI0gL,.29                                                     "I             U
ab.. 25"I
Owl0.  53 10                                                                                                                                  IO            -10                                                       I                            
F...r. ..00214.1l0.                                        (1?                                       110            03      024         042         002        (40         aSS          31           040            040           340           404~~~~~~25  12  i-,  -Me 
A. -0 .4.1.1                                                                                                                                04flM          ltz   2..01        045        j.41        14ff5          SW        510.            050        1  1          j3j             ae
St  .1.  ..  Il0                                                                                                                                 -            41         45 111 I41                         45/  2    J5..41L43 I.-I05
TBg                                                                                         ..... .......05...04.  10                               01         14         10I.1                   40 ..(I 4..00...0? ~
!0001200,*                                                                                                                                       43k       O110        LII        2.10        2  4)                   IItO          0019          ti)-0.0)                     44.,
30047104..1 .          .4..... .4t,...1.....41-.-.....0.....10..



OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPlEXT PROJECT
Summary of Pro ect Costs
foreign Exchange               Taxes
PYI             PY2             PY3              PY4             PY5             TOTAL            f          Amount                      ______
I.   FIELD CROPS AND DEVELOPMENT
1.  Technical Servtces, Seed Far., and Extension
(a)  Vehicles, tractors and *qutpment                   932.1            271.2           330.1            521.2           160.5           2,215.1            75       1,594.8            12       265.8
(b)  S*l.rie.                                            782.2           940.7         1,077 9          t,08S           1,OBB.5           4,977.8            10         519.1
(c)  Yehitles operating costs                            141.5           199.4           237.5            237.5           237.5            1 053.4           45         474.0            20       210.7
iub-tot pe                                       1,855.8         1,411.3          1,645.5         1872            T                    T ;              32       2,587.9             6      476.5
2.  Incre.ental Farm Inputs                                  223.4           512.4            536.7           667.3           750.2            2,690.0           85       2,286.5            -
3. Ctvil IWorks
(a)  Plant,  equipaent and intrtala                   2.026.7            257.1           159.8            534.9          141-4            3,119.9           78       2,336.2             7       21S.4
(b)  Salaries                                           502.1            638.9           638.9            638.9           638.9           3,057.7            23         702.1            -          -
(c)  Ru.idins and construction                        1,366.0          2,630.2           688.0            409.3           381.5           5,475.0            37       2,013.2            10       547.5
(d)  Plant and vehicles operating costs                 128.0            556.3           560.0            492.1           415.8           2,152.2            45         968.5            20       430.4
(e)  Cener-I  ervicee                                    57.2             53.7            53.7             53.7            53.7             272.0            20          54.4            20        54.4
Sub-total                                       4,080.0          4,136.2         2,100.4          2,128.9         1,631.3           14,076.8            44       6,074.4             9    1,250.1
SUB-TOTAL 1                                                6,159.2         6,059.9         4,282.6          4,643.4         3,868.0           25,013.1           45    *10,948.8               7    1,727.2
It.  SUPPoVT SERVICLS
1.  Prol-t H.nagtenent and Administration
C.)  Vehiclx  and equipment                              115.3           -                  1.7            48.1             1.7              166.8           75         120.1            12        20.0
(b)  Salaries                                            284.0           283.7            283.7           283.7           283.7            1,418.8           24          336.9           -
(c)  Vehicles operating costs                             15.0            15.0            15.0             15.0            15.0               75.0           45          33.8            20        15.0
(d)  General aervice  costs                             116.3            240.9           251.4            251.4           251.4           1 111.4            14         155.6            18       200.1
Sub-total                                          530.6           539.6          '551.8            598.2             571.8                             24         646.4            8       235.1
2.  Etvluation Unit
(a)  Vehtcle  nd equtpment                               75.2            17.5             4.1             57.1            -                 153.9           75         110.8            12        18.5 05
(b)  SalarIes                                            65.1             91.8            91.8             91.8            91.8             432.3            -          _                _          _         0
(c)  Vehi.la  operating costs                             14.1            21.2            21.2             21.2            21.2               98.9           45          44.5            20        19.8
Sub-total                                          154.4           i3.5             117.1           170.1           113.0              685.1            23         155.3             6
3. T    in
ehicles ae  eqipmnt                               66.7            17.4             -               54.8            _                 138.9            75         100.1            12        16.7
(b)  Salaries                                            119.2           119.1           119.1            119.1           119.1              595.6           24          144.1           -          _
(c)  Vehicles operating costs                             14.1            21.2            21.2             21.2            21.2               98.9           45          44.5            20        19.8
Sub-total                                                                       140.                                                                    35    Z     88.7 4
4.  C--erial and Credit Seeveis
(a)  Vehicles and equipmnt                              164.3             67.0            15.1             22.7            56.2              325.3           75          234.2           12        39.3
(b)  Salaries                                           336.9            355.4           360.7            360.7           360.7           1,774.4            18         315.1            -          -
(c)  VehLclea operating costs                            31.3             57.3            57.3             57.3            57.3             260.5            45         117.2            20        52.1
Sub-total                                          532.5           479.7            433.1           440.7           474               ,302              28          5               4        91.4
5.  Consultnt Semite. and Studies                            264.6            54.0             75.6            16.2             -                410.4            90         369.4           -          -
SU8-TOTAL II                                           1,682.1         1,361.5         1,317.9          1,420.3         1,279.3            7,061.1            30       2,126.3           6        401.3
TOTSL BASE COSTS                                                7,841.3          7,421.4         5,600.5          6,063.7         5,147.3           32,074.2            41      13,075.1            7    2,128.5
Physical Contingencies (67. of Base Costs)                        460.4            502.5           314.4            323.6           276.5            1,877.4            40         754.4            7       133.8    31
Price Contingencies (24% of Base Coats)                            389.0         1,237.9         1,434.8          2,158.5         2,473.3            7,693.5            39       3,031.2            6       480.6  lb
ESTIMATED TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                   8,690.7          9,161.8         7,349.7          8,545.8         7,897.1          41,645.1            40      16,860.7             6     2,742.9  (DjX
Note:  In a11 individual .alary tables, internationally-recruit.d staff hays b.en costsd at base salary plu allo.nces; consultant firm  fees for recruitment and b-ck-up  eavicee appear In thl
"Consultant Services" table (Annex 2, Table 2).
RS:avr
11/16179



NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Consultants and Studies
(in April 1980 terms)
Foreign
Exchange
A.  Consultant Services (man-months)       PY 1       PY 2       PY 3       PY 4            Total             Costs
Basic Agricultural Management
Techniques and minimum tillage          -           3          4          3              10
Management Training and Staff
Development and LGC Staff               -           3          3        -                 6
LGA Tax Base Study                      -          -           3                          3
Hydrogeological Surveys                  6          4          4        -                14
Accounts System                          3         -          -          -                3
Total Man-months                    9         10        14          3              36
Costs (N'000)             Base Costs   48.6        54.0       75.6      16.2            194.4      90%    175.0
At N5,400 per man-month                =5===      =====      ==        ====
(equivalent to US$9,000)
B.  Recruitment fees (N'000) Base Costs  216.0                                              216.0             194.4
12 Staff x N18,O000
(equivalent to US$30,000)
m X
TOTAL BASE COSTS                  264.6       54.0      75.6       16.2           410.4              369.4
RS:avr
11/15/79



NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Fincing Plan
(in N@0O0)
As per disbursement schedule
Total Project Costs                                                                                              Equivalent   (less 107 for contingencies)
(including contingencies)            PY1       PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5              Total           US$ Million            US$ Million
Civil Works                          1,597      3,453      1,012        676        706            7,444              12.4
Vehicles and Equipment               3,705        748        650      1,691        525            7,319              12.2
Salaries and Wages                   2,275      2,824      3,192      3,421      3,651           15,363              25.6
Consultant Services                    290         64         96         22        -                472               0.8
Operating Costs                        579      1,464      1,716      1,825      1,921            7,505              12.5
Inputs                                 245        608        684        911      1,094            3,542               5.9
Total                          8,691      9161       7.350      KR         7 897           41X645              69.4
IBRD:  Civil Works                     888      1,920        563        376       453             4,200               6.9                    6.2
Vehicles and Equipment       3,290        664        577      1,502       -467            6,500              11.0                    9.9
Salaries and Wages             382        474        536        575        613            .2,580              4.3)
Consultant Services            290         64         96         22        -                 472              0.8)                   4.6
Operating Costs                -          -          -          -          -
Inputs                         208        515        579        772        926            3,000               5,0                    4.5
Total                         5_058    3___7         _5_1       3247      2                16 752             28.0                     2.8 + Contingencies"
28.0
FGN:   Civil Works                     343        742        218        145        152            1,600
Vehicles and Equipment         202         41         36         93         28               400
Salaries and Wages             741        919      1,039      1,113      1,188            5,000
Consultant Services            -          -          -          -          -                 -
Operating Costs                239        605        709        754        793            3,100
Inputs                          21         51         58         77         93              300
Total                         1_546       2135B 28 O6O          2,182      2,254            10,400
OYSG:  Civil Works                     366        791        231        155        101            1,644
Vehicles and Equipment         213         43         37         96         30              419
Salaries and Wages           1,152      1,431      1,617      1,733      1,850            7,783
Consultant Services            -          -          -          -          -
Operating Costs                340        859      1,007      1,071      1,128            4,405
Inputs                          16         42         47         62         75              242
Total                          2,087      31166      2L239      3,117      3,184           141493
RS:avri
11/16/79
I-..t,



- 63 -                     ANNEX 2
Table 4
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(in US$ million)
Fiscal Year    Quarter          Amount          Cumulative      Balance
1981        First             0.8                 -           27.2
Second           1.7                2.5          25.5
Third            2.5                5.0          23.0
Fourth           3.3                8.3          19.7
1982        First             1.5                9.8          18.2
Second           1.5               11.3          16.7
Third            1.5               12.8          15.2
Fourth           1.7               14.5          13.5
1983        First             1.0               15.5          12.5
Second           1.0               16.5          11.5
Third            1.0               17.5          10.5
Fourth           1.0               18.5           9.5
1984        First             1.3               19.8           8.2
Second           1.4               21.2           6.8
Third           .1.4               22.6           5.4
Fourth           1.4               24.0           4.0
1985        First             1.0               25.0           3.0
Second           1.0               26.0           2.0
Third            1.0               27.0           1.0
Fourth           1.0               28.0            -
OS:avr
1/30/80



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
OYO STATE
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Assumptions
1.        Project Life:  Assumed to be 30 years including a five-year invest-
ment period during which development activities would be substantially com-
pleted. Full development yields are expected to be achieved in five years by
1986.
2.        Phasing of Costs and Benefits:  In recognition of the nature of
agricultural activity involving a time lag between use of inputs and its
associated output, project costs and benefits have been stated on a time
adjusted basis, namely that the benefits are assumed to accrue in the year
following the use of inputs. However, since the full crop year may overlap
with the year of investment only 50% of the farm input costs have been lagged.
3.        Project Costs:
i.   all costs are expressed in April 1980 (date project is expected
to start) prices net of identifiable taxes and duties;
ii.   cost estimates include physical contingencies at the levels
specified in para. 5.29;
iii.   all farm inputs were costed at full economic farmgate prices
(summary table of input costs is at Table 4);
iv.   the opportunity cost for all farm labor was taken as N2.0 per
man-day (see also para. 10.09);
v.   since the numeraire used for the analysis is real income mea-
sured in terms of domestic currency (at constant 1980 prices),
all foreign exchange costs and benefits have been denominated
in Naira using a shadow exchange rate (SER) of N1.0 = US$1.23
(as compared to an official rate of N1.0 = US$1.67). (See also
para. 10.08).
vi.   only 50% of the cost of training has been included as benefits
from it would also accrue to non-project farmers;
vii.   all evaluation costs have been excluded because the benefits
will accrue to future investments;
viii.   road maintenance costs have been included for the full project
life.



- 65 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Project Benefits:  Expected future yields and production with and
without project are in Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3.
i.   project benefits comprise the value of incremental crop
production priced at economic farmgate prices (for details see
summary at Table 4) based on the Bank's world market commodity
price forecasts for maize and sorghum. For nontraded crops --
cassava, yams and cowpeas -- output was valued on the basis of
domestic retail prices, adjusted to farmgate;
ii.   no additional non-agricultural benefits from improved roads
and rural infrastructure were calculated;
iii.   no residual value was added at the end of the project's
economic life.
5.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting costs and benefits
over a 30-year evaluation period, the economic rate of return for the project
is about 20%. Further assuming a discount rate of 11%, the estimated oppor-
tunity cost of capital in Nigeria, the economic net present value (NPV) of
project investment in 1980 terms is N22 million (US$27.0 million).



NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Physical Production and Economic Value of Incremental Project Output
Physical   1/
(m/tons)    -
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3    Year 4    Year 5        Year 6-30
Maize                                   761      3,349       6,668    10,247    14,107         16,964
Sorghum                                 133        267         400       489       801            801
Cowpeas                                 106        170         255       340        510           510
Cassava                               1,800      9,000      21,150    27,000    38,700         38,700
Yams                                  2,540      8,100      13,500    18,900    24,300         24,300
Value     2/
('000 Naira) -
Price per ton
(Naira)
1980    1985      Year 1     Year 2      Year 3   Year 4    Year 5        Year 6-30
Maize              169      182       129        566         1,127     1,732     2,567         3,087
Sorghum            156     166         21         42            62        76       133           133
Cowpeas            719     719         76        122           183       244       367           367
Cassava            102     102        184        918         2,157     2,754     3,947         3,947
Yams               305      305       775      2,470         4,118     5,764      7,412        7,412
Total Benefits                      1,185      4,118         7,647    10,570    14,426        14,946
1/  Physical production figures from Annex 1, Table 3.
2/  For calculation of economic prices, see Project Working File Paper C3.                                           x
3/6/80



NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC VALUATION OF FARM INPUTS"
('000 N in 1980 Constant Terms)
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Year 6        Year 7 - 30
Fertilizers
Compound                      175           514           962        1,356         1,843          2,143         2,143
Can                            10            63           158           231           357           494           494
Total                   185           577         1,120         1,587         2,200         2,637          2,637
Agro Chemicals
Ineecticided                   25.0          78.0         148.0         228.0         278.0         284.0         282.0
Herbicides                      --            --           78.0         110.0         294.0         492.0         360.0
Total                    25.0          78.0         226.0         338.0         572.0          776.0         642.0
Tools and Equipment
Hand Planters                   --            --            2.0           1.0           1.0           1.0           1.0
CDA Sprayer                     0.9           0.9          14.9           8.8           9.6          10.5          10.5
Batteries                       0.2           0.4           3.3           4.9           7.9           7.9           7.9
Maize Cribs                     --            --           60.0          60.0          60.0          60.0          60.0
Total                     1.1           1.3          80.2          74.7           78.5          79.4          79.4
Farm Labor                      238.2         767.0      1,317.0        1,719.0      2,186.0         1,843.0      1,843.0
Total Incremental
Farm Input Cost               449.3      1,423.3       2,743.2       3,718.7       5,036.5        5,335.4       5,201.4
1/   All costs are rounded.  For detailed costs and physical quantities see Project File C 3.
For physical input requirements, see Annex 1, Table 4.
ItTj



NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits -/
('000 Naira, 1980 Constant Terms)
2/                      Incremental
Incremental Project Costs -                         Project           Net Benefits
Year               Capital       Farm     0 and M      Total                  Benefits             (Costs)
Inputs
1                 5,886.5       235.8    2,871.4      8,993.8                   -               (8,993.8)
2                 4,565.8       982.9    3,479.9      9,028.7                1,185.0            (7,843.7)
3                 2,114.0     2,187.3    3,752.9      8,054.1                4,118.0            (3,936.1)
4                 2,510.2     3,392.5    3,673.7      9,576.4                7,647.0            (1,929.4)
5                 1,393.9     4,597.0    3,651.1      9,642.0               10,570.0               928.0
6                    -        5,445.7    1,364.2      6,809.9               14,426.0             7,616.1        1
7                    -        5,531.3    1,364.2      6,895.5               14,946.0             8,050.5        0
8-9                  -        5,460.4    1,364.2      6,824.6               14,946.0             8,121.4        m
10                  366.0    5,460.4    1,364.2       7,190.6               14,946.0             7,755.4
11-14                -        5,460.4    1,364.2      6,824.6               14,946.0             8,121.4
15                  366.0    5,460.4    1,364.2       7,190.6               14,946.0             7,755.4
16-19                -        5,460.4    1,364.2      6,824.6               14,946.0             8,121.4
20                  366.0    5,460.4    1,364.2       7,190.6               14,946.0             7,755.4
21-24                -        5,460.4    1,364.2      6,824.6               14,946.0             8,121.4
25                  366.0    5,460.4    1,364.2       7,190.6               14,946.0             7,755.4
26-30                -        5,460.4    1,364.2      6,824.6               14,946.0             8,121.4
Economic Rate of Return = 20%
Net Present Value at 11%   N22.0 million (US$27 million)
I-tT
1/ For detailed assumptions see Annex 3, Page 1.
2/ All costs and benefits are rounded.
June 8, 1979



ANNEX 3
Table 4
- 69 -
NIGERIA
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
No.      Variable               Appraisal Value       Crossover Valuel/    % Change3
1.    Yields at Full Development
(tons/ha.)
(i)  Yams   2/                 11.0                 9.0              - 48
(ii)  Cassava-                  10.0                 7.0              - 93
(iii)  Maize                      1.8                 -                -126
2.    Prices (Naira/ton 1978 terms)
Crops
Yams                    N311.0              N161.7              - 48
Cassava                 N104.0              N  7.2              - 93
Maize                   N180.0                 -                -126
Fertilizers
NPK                     N276.0              N615.5              +123
Can                     N203.0              N452.7              +123
3.    Farmer Adoption Rate
(improved hectares)        45,500              26,800                - 41
4.    Shadow Exchange Rate
(US$ = Naira)           US$1 = NO.81        US$1 = N1.85             +129
5.    Farm Wage Rate
(per manday)                 N  2.0              N  5.3              +164
1/  Value of variable for which net present value is zero at a discount rate at 11%.
2/  Includes weighted average yield of improved and advanced cassava.
3/ The percentage change refers to incremental production; for yield assumptions
see Annex 1 Table 1.
3/6/80



-70 -                         ANNEX 4
NIGERIA
OYO STATE
OYO NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Working Papers in Project File.
A.        General Reports and Studies on the Sector/Sub-Sector.
Al.  Agricultural Sector Review 1979 - Three Volumes IBRI) -
(Report No. 2181-UNI)
A2.  Agricultural Development in Nigeria 1973-1985 Federal Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources.
B.        Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi.  Oyo North Agricultural Development Project - Feasibility Study
prepared by BRGM (Nigeria) Ltd. - Two Volumes - August 1978.
B2.  "Yoruba Smallholder Farming System" - P.S. Zuckerman - PHD thesis
University of Reading 1973.
B3.  Oyo State Rural Agricultural Sample Survey - 1977 Ibadan - Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development.
B4.  Proposal establishing the Oyo State Agricultural Input Services Unit
(AISU) dated February 1977.
C.        Selected Working Papers, Tables, by IBRD
Cl.  Agriculture - Background.
C2.  Civil Works, including cost tables.
C3.  Economic Costs and Benefits - tables.
C4.  Detailed Project Costs - tables  (Excluding Civil Work Costs).
C5.  Computer printouts (file) for calculating the projects
sensitivity to its basic economic assumptions.



NIGERIA
Oyo North Agricultural Development Project
Project Organization
Federal                                                              Executive Council
Ministry of Agriculture .     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                   Oyo State
and                                                               Commissioner MANR
Rural Development
Loca'   ~           4    Program and Budgeiting                           Other
AP                     ~~~~~~~~Government   -j--.    -  -                                                   state
Counci                          Coordinating Committee                          Ministries
Ooa                           FT   Poject
Project Management        ---            Technical Coordina-
Unit                            tiCommit
Division                               OfieD                                         o
Evaiuation                    Training                      Agricultural                      Engineering
Commercial Services                          Division                      Division                       Services                           Servi
r                                                       o 2   and   l  -|        Staff                        Etension_
Agricultural                       Monitoring
State              inputs Servicing
Investment              Unit                             IStaff                                                   Land Use
Credit                                                                              Ttraining                      Planning         I        _         uildings
Corporataon                                                                                                         ScI
University
and StateI
Evaluation                     Tarnang
Unit
Commarcx i
Ban ics                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~Applied Researchs  Dvlment
Banks                                                                       r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Panting Material      Wae
| Production 
State Seed
Service     |
Ministry
of
Re...rch Station                       Works
Worid Bank - 20056






IBRD 14424
IN  R                                                                           CHAD                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGERIA
IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
Lake Ckoo"                      Existing and Under Appraisal
Ji .                                                               ino                               , / _                                                                                                   Agricultural Development
EXISTING
Lafig (L.oar1454-UNiI
Ay-grbo ILoo-1455-UNiI
Funtu. (Li-eo 1092 -U-NI)
/                                                                                                                                                                                               NitOn  . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~..     R 0Gung0 (l-oar 1099 -UNiI
i  T<  0                                            KANO                                                                                                                                   G-2  r   9   /  8  C  .  N  8  ,  . 1   mb.M [L..ni1164-UNI)
I                                                        0 a So k k             X                  _ X >) P,,fsk,,,,  ADUGURI  (( llorm  Loon 167 - UN I)
APPRAISED
Ekiti Akoko (OGd.)
Oyn North
Kad-n St.te
EBENiN                                                                           1K   A   D U    N   A 9X<" ~WA   y o 
+                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Training Project
APPRAISED
BAUCH                                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~Arvitrlad Renal
Management Training astLt'te
Tree Crap Praiects
6tosUbos/21 2 / ( K,f:nc#Ft~ ... h                                                                                *   <           J           g C HAb   EXISTING
-                                        2__<  < r   L4 I: 4 )    Z ~  vj Coa I (L...it 764-UNI->
/f- oto X                                                                               ....                                                                                                               C.- X  0  TEr7OrY /   01   8    rZ  {$ \   g) fr  0  t  rE[ (Lion 1045-UNI)
-                                                                             - 1   Old. O  I Pa*6  Ln      - J- N)
B.Rede1 Gil P.irri (L-or 11 83- U N I
0                                                                                                                                                                        R ~~~~~~~~- St.t. 0, I P.16 I L.. n 1525 - J N 1)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RorsSat D! ai,Lon  52-Ui
F-:::~  otrty (l-va  1679 - UNiI)
N6~~~~~'7H~~~~  X9/J La                                                                                               f]                                                                                                   Coo m I Provbly amrTe aRroea* aeves Donn I asGr C1AD 
APPRAISED
cIrrigation  Project*
AE KU-                                                            AJ                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING
Livestock Development Project:
A    J,                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Loan 1091 -UNI)
aOeRti  -                 cailo                     -.5     1                                             r,.,n,n,r,ooam,revnconmno,oo,ei,or,vor,,,s e,a.ioaaoienn,       EXISTING~~~~~~EXISTIN
G0 S                        N.                                                                                                                                                                                              N.tt,.in0n/.o  L-tock Poicnnasrodnni  t- Car.nWR-eaneo 
n,"n    crhi                                     'o~csso c vionn                                                                                             *        West-t i-iatnc, Co.ace
-           to                       p~~~~~~~~~~~N G(3.j IA                                            aL                            Narth-Eastrn Co Rennhea
C   Ri.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     ..         .~,  -.pR I~
.ini S  CAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
r'~~E~~   ~    c-.--.,  vRA~~~~~t    c--op  505R5      ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ Snsvvs,?r,/               ~           I.A
I               t~~~~~~~ AnAt PMLULAt 
a'  -      a   itt  00   55                                              eeo,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o9 ~~ZAIRE
y~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                rnoGnr






IBRD 14027
KWARA~~~ ~~~ STKARASAT
KWARA  STATE~~~~~~~~~~~~WRA SAT 
P V~~~~~~-- 
A'- ~~'  CYMEROON  --sjNNIGERI-
KWARA  STATE                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  OYFSAT
q   s2.                                                                                                            -. N-      
IOWT                                                                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K    GUN                                                                                                                OYOATAT
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 14028
NIGER                              - "  NIGER                                                                                                                                                             JANUARY 979
, SOKOT             090     fKlg 709                                                                                            /\       '/N Alt-  
'  '\ - j > ' - N  YADUNA "'t'3   ' k   19                                                                          i  1   ?    5)             A               KWARA    STATE
BENIN     9
1                     0-. -,   ,= (CHAD                                                                                    I
G. - IA0                                                                                                                                   ----.                     
',~e~osv  CAMEROON      KWA  R A           S T A T E                                                             7'7 -'1r,
z    {                               r                            * ,.                                          OYO STATE
z        t                                 _r       J                                ;      1                         /       '                              OYO NORTH PROJECT AREA
(7              -l  /           F         I af  ) '            $       ~ 9;    Is/              2           /    <<<                       Proposed Locations of Administrative Centers,
Z  tJ   i    ;4   -   -   --  iF D  '   ---' \  2  <        /                                                                 Furm erV ce~~~Servic  Cen ters- z=nol Rocdqbs
I~~~~ ~                           Kol,           rX-                                                                                     Rast eIpoe
b.                              SV.                                                                                                                              00 9   0   19  97;  0,99
W-9,1 dog,----9
--ET-    I~~~   0207 9991199                    4
O  G  U N   (   j   hn  ^0)   -   -                                                                      MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tLES 0  5  0  93  20  2l5
S T              A T E>
]                                                                                                        *S*_o_z em        Pb;; orOleb-dd~~~~7



