Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2767-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR AN
OYO-NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
OYO STATE
April 10, 1980
Tbis docuneot bas a resticted disWibuton  d may be use by recipients only in the performance of  |
their oichal duties. Its contents maY ot otberwise be discksed without World.Dunk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
US$1 = N 0.60
Ni   -  US$1.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton         -  0.98 long ton
1 long ton           -  1.017 metric ton
(2,240 lbs.)
1 hectare            -  2.47 acres
1 acre               =  0.405 hectare
1 kilometer (km)     =  0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ASP         -  Advanced Service Package
AISU        -  Agricultural Input Services Unit
BSP         -  Basic Service Package
BPCC        -  Budget and Policy Coordinating Committee
ONPMU       -  Oyo-North Project Management Unit
LGC         -  Local Government Council
MANR        -  Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources - Oyo State
NACB        - Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
OYSICC      -  Oyo State Investment Credit Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1   - March 31 (until January 1, 1981)
January 1 - December 31 (from January 1, 1981)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - OYO-NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:       Oyo State of Nigeria
Amount:            US$28 million
Terms:             Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:  The Federal Government would onlend the full amount of the
loan to the Oyo State Government on the same terms as the
Bank loan. The Federal Government would carry the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The project would assist in increasing food crop production
and improving rural incomes. It would consist of a package
of farm support services and physical infrastructure de-
signed to benefit directly 55,000 smallholder farm families
located in the northern part of Oyo State. Support services
would include extension advice, crop protection measures,
weed control, improved seeds, fertilizers, and the provision
of credit facilities. Physical infrastructure would include
constructing (550 kms.), improving (250 kms.), and maintain-
ing gravelled feeder roads, constructing dams and wells, and
establishing project headquarters and farm service centers.
Consultant services would be engaged to recruit a project
management team. The risks involved in the project are
minor and would arise from failure to achieve the farmer
adoption rate or to contract consultant services on time,
but the basic agricultural package is simple and well
tested.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
--US$ Millions-----
I. Field Crops and Developmment
Technical Services                               9.4      4.2     13.6
Incremental Farm Inputs                          0.7     3.8       4.5
Civil Works                                     13.5    10.0      23.5
Subtotal                                  23.6    18.0       41.6
II. Support Services
Project Mianagement and Administration           3.5     1.2       4.7
Evaluation Unit                                  0.8     0.3       1.1
Training                                         0.9     0.5       1.4
Commercial Services                              2.8      1.1      3.9
Consultant Services                               -      0.7       0.7
Subtotal                                   8.0      3.8      11.8
Total Base Costs                          31.6    21.8       53.4
Physical Contingencies                           2.0     1.2       3.2
Price Contingencies                              7.8     5.0      12.8
Total Proj'ect Costs (including taxes           41.4    28.0      69.4
and duties of US$4.3 million)
Financing Plan:                               Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ Millions-----
IBRD                                             -      28.0      28.0
Federal Government                              17.4     -        17.4
Oyo State Government                            24.0     -        24.0
Total                                     41.4    28.0       69.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                                81    82    83    84    85
------ --US$ M1illions------
Annual                                         8.3   6.2   4.0    5.5   4.0
Cumulative                                     8.3  14.5  18.5   24.0  28.0
Rate of Return:                                20 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:                       2383-UNI, dated February 29, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR AN OYO-NORTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN OYO STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$28 million to
help finance a project for agricultural development in the northern part of
Oyo State of Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. The Federal Government
would relend the total amount of the loan to the Oyo State Government on the
same terms as the Bank loan. The Federal Government would carry the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 2428-UNI), dated
June 19, 1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The follow-
ing paragraphs summarize the major conclusions of that report, and update
them on the basis of more recent developments. Country data are attached
as Annex I.
Political Background
3.         Following 13 years of military rule, a civilian government assumed
office in Nigeria on October 1, 1979. The government is headed by Mr. Shehu
Shagari, leader of the National Party of Nigeria, which emerged from the
elections as the party with the greatest and widest support. The economic
policies of the new administration have yet to be formulated in detail.
Nevertheless, Mr. Shagari has indicated that his policies with respect to
domestic and foreign affairs will follow the same broad principles as those
espoused by the outgoing administration. Rural development, increased food
production, education and low-cost housing are expected to be focal points of
the new administration's program. A greater role of the private sector in
development is envisaged.
Economic Developments 1974-78
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of about 81 million (1978)1/,
with a per capita income of around US$560.  Per capita income alone, however,
is not a satisfactory indicator of the average living standard in Nigeria.
In terms of such criteria as child mortality, life expectancy, and number
of people per physician, Nigeria ranks amongst the poorest countries in
the world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a decade,
but acquired a dominating influence in the economy only after the sharp
escalation of oil prices in 1973/74. Within a year, oil revenues
1/   79 million in 1977.



-2-
tripled, rising to over US$6.5 billion (roughly US$100 per capita) in 1974/75
and foreign exchange earnings rose commensurately. This occurred at a time
when Nigeria depended primarily on agriculture for income and employment. It
had only a small industrial base, and the existing infrastructure was deficient
and in a very poor state.
5.        The nation's first concern at that time was to use the oil wealth
to improve greatly - indeed revolutionize - the state of the country's social
and physical infrastructure, and establish heavy industry. The Government
simultaneously set out to achieve satisfactory growth of agriculture and
light manufacturing to ensure broadly-based economic progress. All these
concerns were underscored in the Third National Development Plan (1975-80).
The plan was prepared in the midst of the oil boom and reflected the optimism
and confidence of that time. It contemplated a total investment program of
about US$50 billion (representing a three-fold increase over the previous
plan period), with the public sector accounting for about US$35 billion
(subsequently raised close to US$45 billion due to cost increases). The
public sector program contained large allocations for transport (28 percent)
and industry (19 percent), and an ambitious goal for free and compulsory
universal primary education (UPE) by 1980 was set. The economy was expected
to grow at 9.5 percent a year, with agriculture growing at 5 percent and
manufacturing at 18 percent.
6.        The actual course of events, however, turned out to be quite dif-
ferent. In the post-oil boom period, the Nigerian economy grew at an average
rate of 6 percent a year. There was little increase in the agricultural
output and the growth of manufacturing, at 12 percent a year, remained below
the Third Plan target. Although construction, power, transport, and public
services expanded at around 20 percent a year, serious physical bottlenecks
emerged. Acute power shortages and congested ports and roads undermined the
productivity of existing industrial plants, upset the normal distribution
channels and caused consumer frustration. These factors contributed to a
rapid increase in production costs, which in turn made it generally difficult
for domestic production in both agriculture and manufacturing to compete with
foreign produced goods. Because the fastest growing tertiary sectors are
concentrated in the urban areas, economic growth had a strong urban bias
which tended to accentuate urban-rural income inequalities and encourage
emigration of young labor from rural areas. Also, private investment, at
least in the early years, remained sluggish for a variety of reasons, such as
the indigenization measures and the uncertain domestic and international
economic environment.
7.        The oil revenues, which were critical for the implementation of
the proposed public sector program, fell substantially short of expecta-
tions, while the actual costs of the programs and projects turned out to be
much higher. Large deficits in the government budget and balance of payments
appeared quite early in the period, and the resource constraint came to re-
assert itself much sooner than expected. Although the additional oil revenues
were used largely to augment the nation's capital stock (the federal
budget current surplus amounted to 60 percent of current revenues), capital
expenditures rose so quickly - seven-fold between 1973/74 and 1977/78 - that
the budget was in substantial deficit already by 1975/76.



8.        As provided in the Third Plan, government investment concentrated
on transport, heavy industry and education, which yielded some impressive
results, particularly in roads and ports. Not surprisingly, the much enlarged
public sector investments, together with the growing financial difficulties,
considerably strained the existing administrative capacity. Thus, costs and
project design could not always be closely controlled, and investments tended
to be capital intensive with a large import content.
Financial Difficulties and Government Stabilization Measures
9.        Nigeria's financial difficulties were further aggravated in 1977
when Nigerian oil, at the official price set in April 1977, faced keen
competition in European and US markets from other, cheaper sources. Conse-
quently, Nigerian sales, which began to decline in the latter half of 1977,
plummeted in the early months of 1978.
10.       Federal budget deficits and the drawdown of foreign exchange
reserves had been increasing over time, but the country's financial situation
became critical in 1977/78. The fiscal year closed with a Federal Government
overall budget deficit of about US$3 billion, representing about 10 percent
of GDP. Foreign exchange reserves declined sharply and by the end of 1978
stood at US$2.2 billion, a level equivalent to only seven weeks of imports.
The annual rate of inflation averaged 15 percent during these two years,
rendering domestic production of tradeables progressively less competitive
with foreign-produced goods.
11.       To overcome these problems, the Government took a number of steps
designed to increase public resources, to curtail public expenditure, and to
curb imports. The Nigerian oil price in April 1978 was brought in line with
the prices of its competitors in order to reverse the trend of declining oil
exports. Non-oil revenues in 1978/79 were augmented through higher rates for
income tax, excises, and import duties as well as through better enforcement
of tax laws and procedures, while cutting Federal Government capital expendi-
tures by 25 percent in nominal terms.
12.       In order to strengthen the balance of payments position, import
licensing and other restrictions were introduced to reduce particularly the
nonessential consumer imports. The Government also succeeded in raising two
large syndicated loans (amounting to US$1.75 billion) in the Euro-currency
market. In addition, the Government during this period shifted the emphasis
in its expenditures towards agriculture and introduced policies and programs
to stimulate agricultural production.
13.       On the whole, the above measures succeeded in bringing about a
measure of domestic economic stability and stopping the drain on foreign ex-
change reserves. The oil output, following the price reduction, revived
quickly and reached well over 2 mbd in the latter half of 1978 compared to an
average of 1.5 mbd at the start of the year. The overall budget deficit for
1978/79 turned out to be only 60 percent of the previous year's level or
about 5 percent of GDP. The import restrictions also appear to have been
very effective in achieving their objective.



- 4 -
Recent Oil Market Developments and Short-term Outlook
14.        Nigeria's financial position has improved dramatically during
1979 following successive increases in the world oil price. In line with
other OPEC countries, Nigeria raised the price of its crude oil to US$34
per barrel on February 1, 1980, up from US$14.10 in December 1978. The
high price coincided with a record output of 2.3 mbpd during 1979. To-
gether, these two factors have changed the fiscal situation and added
considerably to foreign exchange reserves. Export earnings in 1979 are
estimated to have exceeded US$18 billion, an increase of 65 percent over
the previous year, and federal revenue for 1979/80, budgeted at N8.8
billion, is likely to exceed Nll billion. Indications are that most
of the additional revenue was used to increase capital expenditure, which
may have risen by as much as 20 percent in real terms. This expansion is
dictated primarily by the large number of unfinished investments.
Economic Prospects and Policies
15.        Unless there are major new oil discoveries--the chances of which
are not held to be very good--Nigeria's future oil output will not rise
above current levels and, because of rapidly rising domestic consumption,
the volume of oil exports is likely to decline over time. On the other
hand, it is expected that the economy's demand for imports will continue to
rise at a rapid pace in view of the size of the economy, the level of economic
development, the pipeline of unfinished investments, and numerous newly
identified investment projects. Over the next few years, Nigeria can expect
to be in a comfortable financial position, and should be able to build up its
foreign exchange reserves. Nevertheless, the underlying divergence in growth
rates of imports and exports has serious implications for longer term
economic prospects. Because of the economy's heavy reliance on oil-financed
imports and investment, the outlook for the post-oil era depends on the
success with which imports are replaced by domestic production, and non-oil
exports are stimulated. Growth in the non-oil sector must become self-
generating as oil resources are depleted.
16.        The Government is at present preparing the Fourth National Develop-
ment Plan, which is expected to come into effect in January 1981. Indications
are that the next five years will be used to consolidate the nation's economic
base and to lay the foundations for balanced long-term economic development.
The new administration intends to put particular emphasis on improving the
performance of agriculture in order to halt the steep rise in food imports and
the decline in agricultural exports. It is also likely that the private
sector will be encouraged to play a growing role and that foreign participa-
tion will also be encouraged.
17.        Given the great improvement in Nigeria's financial prospects, and
assuming an active private sector, domestic investment is expected to be
maintained at a high level of around 28 percent of gross domestic income
during 1980-85. Provided investments are well conceived and productive,
this rate should permit the economy to grow at about 5 percent a year--more
than 7 percent for non-oil GDP--with fair potential for employment generation.



The economy-wide ICOR is expected to remain high owing to the weight of the
large capital intensive projects in the ongoing public sector investment
program. Imports are likely to grow faster than CDP, at least initially,
if restrictions on imports of consumer goods are eased somewhat in view of
the stronger foreign exchange position.
18.       Now that the financial constraints have been relaxed, there will no
doubt be pressures on the government to reverse the policy of prudent budget
and balance of payments management, instituted by its predecessor.  There
will be a major test and challenge for it to proceed cautiously in the face
of these pressures in order to avoid repeating the experience of 1974-75.
In addition to careful resource management, the performance of the economy
will depend on how successful the government is in directing investment
priorities and policy emphasis towards directly productive sectors. A crit-
ical factor will be the competitiveness of domestic production relative to
foreign goods. This will require that close attention be paid to the estab-
lishment of a favorable cost and price structure.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
19.       Until recently Nigeria had only limited recourse to external
borrowing. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to
only US$1.3 billion at the end of 1977. Since then, it increased to US$3.2
billion, x;ainly as the result of two syndicated Euro-currency loans. During
1979, project-related commercial borrowing was in the order of US$2 billion.
However, by the mid-1980s, when the debt service on currently contracted loans
will peak, it will still amount to less than 3 percent of export earnings.
The World Bank's share in total debt outstanding, though high at around 50
percent in 1977, has now dropped to below 15 percent as a result of the
inicrease in commercial borrowing. Given the relatively low level of external
indebtedness, the Government's generally cautious approach to external borrowing,
and the favorable prospects for oil, the debt service is likely to remain
below 10 percent over the next decade. Provided the Government is successful
in implementing policies to enhance the productivity of investment and
maintain a balance between resource availability and use, Nigeria can be
considered creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
20.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of February 29, 1980 amounted to
US$1,240.0 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of February 29, 1980 was US$660.0 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$580.0 million. Transport, power and water supply
together account for about 48 percent of total commitments; agriculture for



-6-
about 31 percent (most of which was committed in the last five fiscal years);
and education, industry, urban, and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the
remaining 21 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY78 were
about US$51 million, and US$60 million in FY79, but are expected to increase
in the coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria.
There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made four loans to borrowers totalling US$9.8
million, and five equity investments totalling US$3.1 million. Of these
amounts, US$3.9 million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular em-
phasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor.
22.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater
Bank involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has been initiated.
In developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective
is to encourage the shift (already discernable in the Federal Government's
investment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure
investment which characterized the two or three years following the oil
boom of 1973/74 towards a more discriminating support for growth in the
commodity producing sectors. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the incidence
of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively pursued in
recent agricultural projects, including the presently proposed project, which
benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural lending of this
kind would continue to figure prominently in the future lending program. A
third objective of Bank lending is to support the Federal Government's efforts
to diversify the economy, and reduce the excessive dependence upon petroleum
as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. Agricultural lending, in
particular, would include strengthening the potential for export crops such as
cocoa.
23.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a significant contribution in power, water supply, and road maintenance.



Further project identification work is under way in these sectors. Similarly,
there is a strong case for continued lending for education. In this context,
it is proposed that vocational, technical, and teacher training be given
primary emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and state
governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization
will continue to be addressed through a number of urban development projects,
along the lines of the ongoing project in Bauchi State, focused on the needs
of the urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these lines
would be in keeping with the need to generate employment, and would also
support the Federal Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's oil revenues to
alleviate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       Despite the prominence of the oil sector, agriculture continues to
play an important role in the Nigerian economy. Approximately 60 percent of
Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for their principal
source of employment and income, and the agricultural sector will, for some
time, continue to play a key role as an employer and as a provider of
foodstuffs for the rapidly growing urban population. The importance of
the sector is manifest also by other indicators. Value added by agriculture
accounts for almost one quarter of GDP and fully one-third if petroleum
production is excluded. Furthermore, over 60 percent of non-oil exports
consist of agricultural products.
25.       In terms of growth, the agricultural sector has been essentially
stagnant in recent years. Production has fluctuated significantly from
year to year, but there was hardly any real growth of value added during the
period 1970-78. These years witnessed a marked decline in the export of
traditional agricultural products, while imports of food rose from US$80
million to nearly US$1,300 million. At the same time, food prices rose
precipitously as demand outstripped domestic supply.
26.       Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders whose levels of technology and productive efficiency are low. The
typical productive unit is a family farm of between 2-3 hectares. Although
there is regional specialization in the cultivation of cash crops -- the
tree-crop belt in the south and the groundnut and cotton belts in the north--
almost every family grows some of its own food requirements. Only a rela-
tively small proportion of the food crops enters commercial trade for shipment
to other areas, the principal flow of such trade being from the food crop belt
in the middle of the country to the urban centers and other food deficit areas
of the south.



- 8 -
27.       Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which contrast sharply with the poor returns
to labor from traditional agriculture. This has encouraged the drift of
young people away from rural areas, and has resulted in a sharp rise in
wage rates for hired labor. In the long run, a prosperous agricultural
sector capable of reducing this drift can be achieved only through the
application of advanced farming techniques, which are more appropriate to
larger farming units,whether operated by groups or individuals. Efforts
to encourage such farm development should complement support for small-
holders.
28.       Government is aware of the need to improve performance in the agri-
cultural sector. In the revised Third National Development Plan (1975-80),
an amount of US$4.8 billion, seven percent of the total, has been earmarked
for the sector to support a targeted growth rate of five percent. The actual
level of expenditure has been lower, however, as a result of fiscal constraints,
and growth is estimated at only about one percent per annum. The Plan included
development of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of
modern farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution and
marketing services, and support for various integrated development projects.
Rural development programs along these lines are to be promoted with comple-
mentary investments in secondary and feeder roads, rural electrification,
health, and'other social services.
29.       The Government's main objective in the short-term is to improve
the domestic price stability of basic food crops and to ensure adequate food
supplies for the rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background,
Government's long term objectives are to create a prosperous and efficient
agricultural sector that will restrain the population drift to urban centers,
and revive the role of Nigeria as an exporter of agricultural produce.
Success in this endeavor will be contingent, however, upon overcoming a number
of development constraints in the sector.
Development Constraints
30.       Undoubtedly, one of the principal constraints is the lack of effec-
tive agricultural support services. Transport of produce is hampered by lack
of feeder roads. Many farmers have to travel long distances to obtain basic
farm inputs which, in many cases, are in irregular supply. Extension
services are generally deficient, and the new technologies that are available
are not reaching farmers in remote rural areas. Also, a greater effort is
required, particularly by the agricultural research institutions, to improve
the analysis of technical, economic, and financial aspects of farming innova-
tions, and adapt them to the different socio-ecological conditions of Nigeria.
31.       Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector, and present government subsidy policies have served
to remove commercial incentives for private sector participation in the
distribution of fertilizers and other basic farm inputs. While, during a



- 9 -
period of high liquidity, it may have been possible to finance a high level
of subsidies as an instruiment for redistributing oil revenues to the rural
sector and for encouraging the adoption of unfamiliar and possibly risky
technologies, there is a need to reassess this policy in the light of the
current high demand for farm inputs. The implications of the Government's
subsidy policy for the long tern growth of the agricultural sector have been
discussed with the Government on a number of occasions, most extensively
within the context of a sector review mission in 1978. The report of the
mission has been distributed to the Executive Directors. While we believe
that the Government generally shares the views of the Bank on the principle at
issue, it is likely to adopt a cautious and gradual approach to the phasing-out
of input subsidies. The Bank will intensify its dialogue with the Government
this year in relation to the Kaduna and Bauchi Agricultural Development
Projects, now in final stages of appraisal, which contain important and sub-
stantial fertilizer components.
32.       It would appear that, given the size of Nigeria's development
program, Government should divest itself progressively of almlost exclusive
respoasL'bilities for marketing both farm inputs and agricultural produce
such as cocoa, cotton, and maize, since this function can be handled miore
efficiently by private enterprise. This would require the creation of an
economic framework appropriate to profitable intervention of private entre-
preneurs in the agriculture service sector and, in that context, a redefini-
tion of the,role of federal and state agricultural ministries and marketing
boards.
33.       The Federal Governraent is generally aware of the above constraints
and also of the need for further improvement in planning and executive capabil-
ities at both federal and state levels. There is a dearth of technical and
managerial personnel at all levels, requiring a greater rationalization of
the responsibilities of public agencies, and a much closer coordination of
the activities of such agencies, if the effectiveness of available manpower
is to be maximized.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
34.       Since 1971, the Bank has approved loans for seventeen agricultural
projects in Nigeria. Of these projects, one relates to livestock, one to
forestry, one to management training, seven to the development of specific
crops (oil palm, cocoa, and rice), while the remaining seven relate to the
general agricultural development of target areas, and are similar in struc-
ture to the proposed project. Among this latter group, the three northern
projects (Loans 1092, 1099, and 1164-UNI) are now well established, and their
success has demonstrated the advantage of planned agricultural development,
implemented under a reformed administrative structure allowing overall state
control while affording management full day-to-day operational autonomy.
Government and the Bank are generally satisfied with the progress of these
projects and the approach adopted. Both Federal and state governments are
anxious to replicate this project structure in other states of the Federa-
tion and to expand it on a state-wide basis. The proposed Kaduna and Bauchi



- 10 -
State Agricultural Development Projects, which are tentatively scheduled for
negotiations in FY81, would be the first state-wide projects. There is also
interest in increasing the role of the commercial agricultural sector in
line with the approach pursued by these projects. In this respect, they are
acting as catalysts of change on a much wider basis than was initially
envisaged.
35.       In addition to the continuing dialogue on agricultural subsidies,
the Bank's agricultural development projects also address and contribute to
resolving other critical issues and bottlenecks to sector growth. Among
these issues is the procurement and distribution of farm inputs which, being
centralized at the federal level, results in inefficient supply to farmers.
Another important issue is the failure of the Nigerian Agricultural and
Co-operative Bank (NACB) so far to provide a viable framework for the
development of smallholder and commercial farm credit. Yet another short-
coming is the inadequacy of physical infrastructure such as feeder roads. The
existing and proposed Bank-assisted agricultural development projects would
provide for better procurement and distribution of farm inputs, credit, and
physical infrastructure as an integrated minimum development package.
36.       The most critical physical constraint facing Nigerian agriculture
today, however, is the lack of experienced manpower at the managerial, admin-
istrative, and technical levels to plan and implement development programs.
The short-term solution to this problem adopted in Bank-supported projects is
international recruitment and the establishment of special project management
units. However, a long-term solution must necessarily involve the training
of Nigerian management staff. In this respect, the Agricultural and Rural
Management Training Institute, for which a loan was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors on June 5, 1979, is expected to play a major role. Furthermore,
training components are included in all of the Bank-assisted projects. The
Oyo-North Project would include an expanded training component based on expe-
rience with other ongoing projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was identified in April 1976 by a Bank mission,
which visited Oyo State to review its agricultural potential. Subsequently,
the Federal Government financed a team of consultants, assisted by federal
and state counterparts, to prepare a feasibility study, which was completed
in August 1978. The project was appraised by the Bank in October/November
1978; a Staff Appraisal Report, dated February 29, 1980 (2383-UNI), is to
be circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were
delayed by the change in government on October 1, 1979 and were held with the
Nigerian authorities at the Bank in November 1979. Supplementary data on the
project is to be found in Annex III.
Project Objective
38.       The principal objective of the project would be to raise the produc-
tivity and, hence, the incomes of at least 55,000 farm families in the northern
part of Oyo State. The typical farmer in this area cultivates on average two



- 11 -
hectares (ha), which he usually owns under the traditional land tenure system.
Smallholdings of this size yield an average annual farm family income of about
US$1,200, or US$180 per capita, under present agricultural practices. Average
family incomes would be raised 20-25 percent in real terms by the end of the
five-year project period, which constitutes a major improvement compared with
the present static production performance (para. 25), and which would be about
equal to the income increases expected under the Bida and Ilorin Agricultural
Development Projects, for which loans were approved by the Executive Directors
on March 20, 1979.
Project Area
39.       The project area covers about one-third of Oyo State, and includes
three Local Government Areas in the northern, derived-savannah zone of the
State. This area is primarily utilized for subsistence food crop production,
whereas Oyo State's other three zones in the South are mainly cocoa growing
areas. The project area was selected to develop an under-utilized potential
in the State by balancing food crop production with cash crops being developed
under the ongoing Second Cocoa Project (Loan 1045-UNI) and the proposed Third
Cocoa Project, scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors later this
year.
Project Description
40.       The vehicle for accomplishing this goal would consist of a package
of services to assist farm and crop development on some 45,500 ha (25 percent
of the total cropped area in Oyo-North), together with strategic investment in
supporting infrastructure such as feeder roads, dams, wells, and boreholes, to
be implemented over the period 1980-85. The project concept would correspond
closely to that which has been applied successfully in a number of ongoing
projects in Nigeria, including the Bida and Ilorin Agricultural Development
Projects. It is anticipated that the experience gained from these projects
would be directly relevant to the proposed project.
41.       In terms of farm and crop development, the project would improve
farming practices by providing fertilizers, improved seeds, crop production
measures, and access to farm credit. A key element would be to strengthen
extension services by raising the ratio of field staff to farmers from the
present low level of 1:2,000 to a more effective level of 1:600, mainly
through additional recruitment and training. The extension service would
work from 20 farm service centers to be operated throughout the project
area. In addition to general extension advice, a farm management advisory
service would be established to provide technical advice to relatively larger
farmers cultivating up to five hectares and to farmers cultivating on a group
basis.
42.       The project would provide for farm trials to test new technology
and farming practices, including crop protection techniques. Improved seeds
would be produced both at the project farms and through contract growers.
Furthermore, conservation practices would be encouraged, and farmers would be
advised on the selection of good arable areas.



- 12 -
43.       Past experience shows that the majority of small-scale farmers in
Nigeria are quite conservative in their adherence to traditional farming
practices; only a progressive minority are likely to adopt advanced production
methods within the project period. Accordingly, the project is structured
in such a way as to offer both a Basic Service Package (BSP) and an Advanced
Service Package (ASP). It is expected that most of the about 51,500 BSP
participants would improve about one-third of their farms, or a total of
about 33,000 ha. The main benefits would accrue from modest applications
of inorganic fertilizers, the use of improved seeds, increased planting
densities, and the better control of disease, pests, and weeds. Participants
in ASP would be encouraged to adopt a range of more advanced production
methods, including mechanization, better water control, land use planning,
and soil conservation. A noteworthy innovation would be the introduction
of minimum tillage technology which, by reducing soil disturbance to a mini-
mum during planting, would help to protect the fragile topsoil from erosion.
Since the large-scale application of minimum tillage farming is a pioneering
effort in Africa 1/, only a small percentage of farms are expected to adopt
this approach immediately. However, minimum tillage would be promoted in-
tensively once the techniques of large-scale application had been thoroughly
tested under the project. It is expected that ASP practices eventually would
affect about 3,500 farmers with an area of about 12,500 ha.
44.       To complement the farm and crop development effort, the project
would prqvide some strategic infrastructure. About 800 km of low cost
graveled feeder roads would be constructed or improved. Road maintenance
would be the responsibility of the project area's three Local Government
Councils (LGCs), whose road staff would also be seconded for a training
program to the Oyo-North Project Management Unit (ONPMU; para. 47). Other
civil works would include the provision of housing for project staff and
buildings for project administration, including a headquarters complex and
17 farm service centers. Water supply, especially during the dry season, is
critical in most parts of the area, and the project would provide for the
construction of about 40 small- and medium-size dams for some of the larger
centers of farming population and about 300 small wells for small villages
and hamlets. Since little is known of the hydrology of the area, the
project would help finance a hydrogeological survey, in order to achieve the
future optimum utilization of surface and groundwater supplies; however, the
completion of this study is   not a prerequisite for the initiation of the
dam and well program.
45.       An important component of the project would be the strengthening of
the Agricultural Input Services Unit (AISU) to enable it to eventually operate
as a fully autonomous, self-financing, and efficient state input distribution
1/   The same techniques were included in the Bida and Ilorin Agricultural
Development Projects. This approach was developed with the assistance
of the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA).



- 13 -
agency. To that end, the project would provide AISU with the services of a
credit and cooperative advisor. In addition, the project would create a
Commercial Services Division within the ONPMU for the supply of agricultural
inputs on a cost recovery basis. The Commercial Services Division would later
be transferred to AISU after the project is completed.
46.       The project would provide for about 36 man-months of short-term
consultant services to assist the Oyo State Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (MANR) and the project management in start-up operations
for the project and to prepare plans and studies in a number of areas.
These would include detailed plans for training and staff development, the
introduction of new technology in the project area, a hydrogeological
survey, and a study of the potential tax base for Local Government Areas.
Although the consultants are likely to be recruited internationally, local
firms would be encouraged to participate. The cost of their services has
been estimated at US$9,000 per man-month (US$6,000 fees and US$3,000 for
travel and per diem expenses). ONPMU would prepare the consultants'
detailed terms of reference for review and approval by the Bank.
Project Implementation
47.       The proposed project structure has been designed to conform, as far
as possible, with Oyo State's existing administrative structure, and relevant
state institutions would be involved in project implementation. However, in
view of the need for close coordination between various state institutions and
ministries, a semi-autonomous project management unit, ONPMU, would be
established. Furthermore, because of the Bank's increasing involvement in
Oyo State, including the ongoing Second Cocoa and proposed Third Cocoa
Projects, it is proposed that overall project policy, in respect to this and
other development projects, be guided and coordinated through a Budget and
Policy Coordinating Committee (BPCC), to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary
of MANR. The existing Planning, Budgeting and Monitoring Division of MANR
would act as BPCC's advisory body. BPCC would determine common project
policy issues, review project budgets, ensure common conditions of service,
and promote coordination and cooperation between state ministries and local
government agencies in matters affecting project implementation. This would
be in line with the practice under other agricultural projects assisted by
the Bank. The gazetting of ONPMU and BPCC would be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Sections 6.01 of the Loan Agreement and 2.01 of the Project
Agreement). It is envisaged that LGCs would eventually take over some key
project responsibilities, and ONPMU and BPCC would place special emphasis on
developing LGC project implementation and management capabilities.
Therefore, during project implementation, close liaison would be maintained
with LGCs, and the senior training officer of ONPMU would develop training
programs for LGC staff.  Additionally, ONPMU would involve LGC technical
staff in the planning, execution, and maintenance of its civil work programs.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, during the fourth year of
project implementation, the Federal and Oyo State Governments, together with
the Bank, would review project progress and plans drawn up by ONPMU, and
make recommendations for the future development of the project (Section 2.13.
of the Project Agreement).



- 14 -
48.       Staffing of ONPMU is germane to the expeditious implementation of
the project. There is a great shortage in Nigeria of manpower with the
experience and capability necessary to manage a project of this nature.  The
project, therefore, makes provision for the international recruitment of key
long-term personnel at an estimated cost of about $7,000 per man/month.  On
previous occasions, the Bank's own Agricultural Projects Management Unit for
West Africa (APMU) has assisted both state and Federal governments in the
selection and recruitment of international staff. However, the increasing
number of agricultural projects in Nigeria and elsewhere make it difficult
if not impossible for APM4U to continue mobilizing high-quality staff. It is
proposed, therefore, that the Oyo State Government (OYSG) would recruit
project staff on its own, through a consulting firm selected on the basis of
a comparative evaluation. The important advantages of using a consulting
firm would be that: (i) the firm would be made responsible for providing
qualified Nigerian staff to the project, (ii) the firm would undertake to
ensure continuity in project staffing and administration; and (iii) the Bank
could gradually divest itself of its direct recruiting responsibilities for
projects in Nigeria. The signing of a contract with a suitable consulting
firm and the appointment of a project manager and chief accountant would be
conditions of loan effectiveness (Sections 6.01 of the Loan Agreement
and 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement). Within the constraints of OYSG and
LGC overall staff requirements, OYSG would agree to the prompt secondment to
ONPMU of appropriate technical and other staff from 11ANR, including agricul-
ture extension staff, and the three LGCs to the transfer of their road staff
to ONPMU for the duration of their training period under the project (Section
2.03(b) of the Project Agreement). The project should be able to obtain the
additional staff required without jeopardizing the implementation of other
programs and projects in Oyo State. The quality of the staff would be
strengthened through a series of training programs to be provided under the
project.
49.       ONPMU would be responsible for the efficient and cost effective dis-
tribution and sale of fertilizer, seeds, insecticides, and other farm inputs
and services, to be carried out by its Commercial Services Division discussed
in para. 45. The farmers' credit needs would be met by the Oyo State Invest-
ment and Credit Corporation (OYSICC). The demand for credit would be limited,
however; the annual total short-term credit need is estimated to be around
US$2.3 million and mainly required for farmers adopting the Advanced Service
Package.
50.       Seasonal loans would bear a minimum interest rate of 10 percent.
This is higher than prevailing interest rates, but lower than the 15 percent
annual inflation rate projected for the project period. Under these condi-
tions, interest rates must be considered subsidized.  Government   continues
to view its concessionary interest rate as a means to reduce the farmer's
production costs and, hence, encourage agricultural investment especially by
small-scale and low income farmers such as constitute the target group of the
proposed project. Nevertheless, during the ongoing dialogue on this and
other issues (para. 35), the Bank has met with some success in encouraging
the Government to adopt more realistic interest rates which would, inter
alia, allow for an adequate spread for the lending institutions, and, at the



- 15 -
same time, lead toward positive interest rates. On an individual project
basis, some progress has been achieved. In the case of the proposed project,
interest rates for short term production credit would be 10 percent or 2-1/2
percent above the NACB rate, whichever is higher (Section 2.14 of the Project
Agreement). This formula allows for automatic adjustment in the event of any
significant general upward adjustment of the Nigerian interest rate struc-
ture. Furthermore, since the Bank is now exploring with Government avenues
to support future agricultural projects, in which by their nature, credit
and credit institutions would play a central role, these projects are
expected to provide a better forum to obtain changes in agricultural interest
rates within the framework of the country's overall monetary policy.
51.       Credit recovery would be the sole responsibility of OYSICC.  Its
10 percent interest rate should be adequate to meet its credit administra-
tion costs. OYSICC's debt collection system would be strengthened under the
Third Cocoa Project.
Project Costs
52.       Total costs for the project period 1980-85 are estimated at US$69.4
million (including taxes and duties of US$4.3 million) of which the foreign
exchange component would amount to US$28.0 million or 40 percent. A break-
down of costs by major categories is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 5 percent of base
costs for all items, except for civil works for which the allowance is 10
percent. Price contingencies for local construction and operating costs allow
for an annual rate of inflation at 15 percent except for local salaries and
labor directly employed by the project which are calculated at 7 percent.
Price contingencies for foreign costs are estimated at 9 percent for 1980, 8
percent for 1981 and 7 percent thereafter. On this basis, total contingencies
are estimated at 30 percent of base costs.
Project Financing
53.       The proposed loan of US$28 million to the Federal Government
would finance 43 percent of total project cost, net of taxes, and would be
equivalent to the foreign exchange cost of the project. The full US$28 million
would be relent by the Borrower to OYSG on the same terms as the Bank loan.
The Federal Government would carry the foreign exchange risk. The signing
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and OYSG would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement). Of
the US$41.4 million remaining project cost, the Federal Government would
finance US$17.4 million and the OYSG US$24.0 million. Their contribution
to total project cost, therefore, would amount to 25 percent and 35 percent,
respectively.



- 16 -
54.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of counterpart funding,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that: a) as a condition of
loan effectiveness, a commercial bank account be opened for ONPMU with an
initial deposit of N2.0 million (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement); b) the
Bank would disburse funds directly to ONPMU's commercial bank account; c)
ONPMU would submit to the Federal Government, OYSG and the Bank, at least four
months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, an annual budget proposal
for the project as approved by BPCC; d) both the Federal Government and OYSG
provide their quarterly contribution to the project at least three months
in advance in accordance with the approved annual budget; e) OYSG guarantee
any overdrafts drawn by ONPMU up to an equivalent of six months' project
expenditures requirements; f) Government subventions to cover subsidies
on farm inputs for the project be paid to ONPMU no later than September of
the year prior to procurement of the inputs; and g) ONPMU's audited accounts
be submitted to the Bank within four months after each fiscal year together
with a statement from the auditor certifying that Bank funds had been used
for their intended purpose. These understandings, which follow closely
those reached with the Nigerian authorities in the case of the Bida, Ilorin,
and Forestry Projects, are reflected in Sections 2.02, 2.10 and 3.02 of the
Project Agreement.
Cost Recovery
55.      , Present government policy is to provide substantial subsidies
for many farm inputs, especially in the case of fertilizers where subsidies
amount to 80 percent of cost. Improved seed is subsidized to the extent
of 50 percent. In spite of existing subsidy policies, efforts would be made
under the project to maximize the recovery of costs for project inputs and
services. Consequently, assurances were obtained during negotiations that all
farm inputs, including plant protection and tractor hire services, provided by
ONPMU to participating farmers would be sold at prices sufficient to recover
the full costs of those inputs and services, except in those instances where
an official subsidy is applied. In the latter case, the Federal Government
and OYSG would, where warranted, refund ONPMU in advance the amount of the
anticipated subsidy (Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement).
Procurement
56.       Contracts for fertilizers, chemicals, vehicles, tractors, and heavy
equipment, amounting to US$100,000 or more, would be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. The aggre-
gate cost of such items of procurement is estimated at about US$16 million.
Local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank would be employed for contracts between US$30,000 and US$100,000. For
contracts of US$30,000 and less, competitive shopping would be employed. The
aggregate cost of items procured under such local arrangements is estimated
at about US$4 million. Domestically manufactured goods procured under inter-
national competitive bidding would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid evaluation.
Experience with similar projects shows that contracts for houses, stores, and
buildings, at an estimated aggregate value of about US$12 million, would not



- 17 -
be attractive to foreign contractors, because of the small size of individual
contracts, competitiveness of local contractors, and the dispersed location
of the works; these contracts would therefore be awarded on the basis of
loca:L competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. The construction of feeder roads and dams, estimated to cost about
US$8 million, would be undertaken by the project on force account due to a
continuing shortage of dependable contractors able to undertake this type of
work. Bank funds would only be utilized toward equipment on force account
works.  The services of consultants and internationally recruited staff,
valued at about US$5 million, would be obtained in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
57.       Some other agricultural development projects assisted by the Bank
have encountered difficulties in the procurement of items through the inter-
mediation of centralized public sector agencies (para. 31); this applies
particularly to fertilizer, where FMA acts as the sole official importer
and distributor. To ensure the timely delivery of fertilizers, it was
agreed for the Bida and Ilorin agricultural development projects that the
procurement of fertilizer for these and for all other Bank-financed agricul-
ture projects would be handled by the Government separately from their other
fertilizer procurement, and that the procurement of fertilizer for all Bank-
assisted projects in the aggregate would be subject to international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with an agreed timetable which would be
monitored jointly by the Bank and the Government with a view to identifying
and removing any possible causes for slippage. This procurement process
would also apply to the Oyo-North project and would be subject to review
after two years to determine its efficacy (Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
58.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1980-85.
Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange expendi-
tures on vehicles, equipment, and farm inputs. W4here items are locally
procured, disbursement would be made against a lower proportion of costs -
90 percent in the case of vehicles and equipment, 85 percent for farm inputs
and 60 percent for construction costs. The cost of salaries and allowances
of internationally recruited staff and consultant services and overseas
training would be fully compensated. On this basis, total disbursements are
estimated at US$9.9 million against vehicles and equipment, US$4.5 million
against farm inputs, US$6.2 million against construction costs, and US$4.6
million against internationally recruited staff, consultants, and overseas
training of local staff. An additional provision of US$2.8 million has been
made on an unallocated basis.
Economic Benefits
59.       The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated
at 20 percent, which is about equal to the average rate of return of the
seven ongoing agricultural development projects. Sensitivity tests show
that, even if farmer adoption rates are only 60 percent of targeted levels,
the economic rate of return would still be 11 percent, which may be consid-
ered satisfactory in the Nigerian context.



- 18 -
60.       Most of the project beneficiaries would be smallholder farmers,
cultivating on the average 2.0 hectares. The present level of farm income
in the project area amounts to an average of only about US$180 per capita
as compared to the national (1978) average of US$560 including oil revenue or
approximately US$400 excluding oil revenues. The rural absolute poverty level
(1978) is estimated to be about US$180 1/. If all farm families would adopt
improved practices for all crops, average farm income at full development
for a typical farm family would increase by some 70 percent in real terms.
However, in practice, average farm income is expected to increase by 20-25
percent, about equal to the increases projected for the Bida and Ilorin
Agricultural Development Projects. This is also expected to have a bene-
ficial effect upon nutritional standards in the area, and would contribute
significantly to improving the welfare of the 55,000 farm families directly
benefiting from the project.
61.       In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of other
major, albeit non-quantifiable benefits, concerning improvement of rural
water supplies, training of technical staff, and development of related
state institutions. The latter would facilitate the planning and implemen-
tation of projects in Oyo State, thereby setting the stage for a possible
state-wide rural development program sometime in the future. The project
would also demonstrate the viability of commercial development of support
services and the benefits of decentralized public sector operations, all
of which may have a far-reaching and profound impact upon the broader
policies and programs of the Government in the agricultural sector.
62.       Other benefits are relatively modest.  Direct employment generation
would amount to about 4,600 man-years, but would involve, for the most part,
a more intensive use of family labor. A higher level of economic activity
in the project area would induce, however, some non-farm employment in other
sectors. In so much as Nigeria is a net importer of food, some US$6 million
of net foreign exchange would be saved by way of import substitution when the
project reaches full maturity.
Project Risks
63.       There are no unusual project risks.  The project organization is
structured within Oyo State's existing agricultural administration, and prob-
lems are expected to be minimal. Delays in contracting of personnel to staff
ONPMU would affect the project implementation schedule; however, delays are
not anticipated at this time. There might be a more serious problem if
the project would fail to achieve the anticipated yield levels at full devel-
opment. However, the basic technical package is fairly simple, well-tested
both at the research station and farm level, and it can therefore be expected
that production and yields will be attained.  For the advanced services
package, risks are mainly confined to the initial stages of technology
adoption, when farmers may be somewhat hesitant to accept an entirely new
technology. Some technical difficulties may be experienced at the introduc-
tory stage. In the long run, however, the importance of providing a stable
farming system to check the serious deterioration of the savannah areas far
outweighs any associated risks.
1/   US$ 156 in 1977.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Oyo State of
Nigeria, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III including the following conditions, set out in Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement, for effectiveness of the loan: (a) signing of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Oyo State; (b) promulgation by Oyo
State in the Official Gazette of a notice establishing the Oyo-North Project
Management Unit and the Budget and Policy Coordinating Committee in a form
and with powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; (c) signing of
a contract by Oyo State with a firm of consultants and appointment of project
manager and chief accountant; and (d) opening of commercial bank account
for ONPMU with initial deposit of N2.0 million by Borrower and Oyo State.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 10, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                                ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  1  of  5
NtCERtA - SOCIAL TNOTCATORS DATA SHEET
NtCUtA                     AETER4CZ GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERY.ES
LAND ARLA. (TOUSAND 50. tL.)                                             _  - NOSt RECENT i -S.ST%E) /
TOTAL            923.f                                                   SAME        SArE     NEXT HICHER
ACRICULTURAL    "46 .4                                HOST RZCZGT     3EOCRAPMEC    ENCOKE       LYCOKE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIATE /b       REGION 7c   CROUP /d   CROUP /-e
CPK  PER CAPITA (U55)                150.0       240.0     560.0            306.1      467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUNFION PE  CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EoUIVALZNT)      34.0        52.0      94.0            80.6       262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VlTAL STATISTIrS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     51.6        66.2      79.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCE.T OF TOTAL) 13.0        16.3      18.1             17.1       24.6        69.0
POPUATION PROJECTIONS
POPUATION It YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      15..0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       435.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2135
POPILATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Kh.                       56.0        72.0      86.0             18.4       45.3        44.6
PER SQ. XM. ACaICULIURAL LAND    125.0       152.0     177.0            50.8       149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRtUCTUE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.7        44.8      46.0              4.1       45.2        41.3
15-64 YRS.    .                    54.1        53.0      52.0            52.9        51.9        55.3
65 Ys. AND ABOVE                    1.2         2.2       2.0              2.8        2.J         3.5
POPULATION CROIrrH RATE (PERCENT)
TOSAL                              2.4         2.5       2.6             2.7         2.7         2.4
URBAN                              5.0         4,7       4.6             5.7         4.3         4.5
CRL'DE 3IRrH RATE (PER THCUSAND)    52.0        51.0      50.0            46.3        39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOCSAND)     25.0        21.0      18.0             17.2       11.7         9.2
CROSS REPROOUCTtON RATE               ..         3.3       3.4             3.1         2.7         2.2
FAPILY PLANN7NC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         7.6      33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARrIED WOHEN)   ..           ..        ..               ..       13.2        34.7
OOD AND U'TR-ITON
DEX OF FOOD nODUCTr.oN
PU CAPITA (1969-71-100)           98.9       102.0      91.0            94.3        99.6-      104.6
PU CAPITA SUPPLY o0
CALORItS (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   9I.O/L      89.0      88.0            89.5        94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0Li      59.9      46.3            55.8        54.3        64.4
Of WHtCH ANI2'(AL AND PULSE      9.77       16.3       9.3             17.9       17.4        23.5
CRILD (AGES 1-4) ?OiLALITY RATE     38.0        33.0      24.0            22.3        11.4         8.6
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.0        *3.0      48.0            47.0       54.7         60.2
LNFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       154.0Q       ..              ..       68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE 'WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..            20.3       34.4         60.8
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            53.9       57.9         75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            10.1       21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..            22.5       40.8         46.0
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            62.5       71.3         46.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            13.9       27.7         22.5
POPULATION ?ER ?HYSICIAN         32000.0    20530.0  14810.0           17424.7    6799.4        2262.4
POPULATION PER SlRSlNG PERSON     6020.0/f   4220.0   3210.0            2506.6     1522.1       1195.4
POPULAT.ON PER NOSPITAL BED
TODAL                          2100.0/b    2220.0    1170.0            502.3      726.5       653.4
RaN "                               ..       400.0    280.0            201.4      272.7        253.1
RAL.                                ..    18450.0   4140.0            1403.6     1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPrIAL BED           ..          ..        ..            23.4       27.5         22.1
H.OUS INC
AVERAGE StZE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..             4.9        5.4          5.3
URBAN                               ..          ..       4.7             4.9        5.1          5.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             5.5        5.5          5.4
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         ..          L.9
URBAN                              3.0          ..       2.2              ..          ..         1.6
ZU'R.L                              .            .        .                ..                    2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTEICITY (PERCEYr
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTALL                            81.0          ..        ..              ..       28.1         50.0
URBAN                             81.3     .             2.                        45 1        77 I
.RUM                                .           .         ...                       9.9        1:



- 21 -                                        ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  5
NICERIA - SOCIUL INDTCATORS DASA SdEET
REFERL'CE GROUPS (A AUS.ED   13.ACGS
4CERIIiA                        1.- 'OST RECEST 'ST.'AIE) -
SAiiE       iA.tE    SE.'T  baCHER
tMT RECENT      GEOGRAP'IC   INCOME         LNCCME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJ1STED ENROLLMENrT RATIOS
PLMMARY:     TOTAL                 36.0         34.0      49.0             59.0        82.7        102.5
MALE                  46.0        43.0       59.0             64.2        87.3       108.6
FEMALE                27.0        25.0       39.0             44.2        75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTJAL                 3.0          4.0      10.0              9.0        21.4         33.5
mALE                   4.0         6.0       14.0             12.0        33.0        38.4
*                                            FEMALE                 1.0         3.0        7.0              4.4        15.5        30.7
VOCATWEAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)   5.0            8.5        3.6/1            7.0        9.8         11.5
PUPML-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.0         34.0      34.0             62.2        34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                          19.0         21.0      25.0             22.9        23.4         22.9
AWLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          15.0          ..         .              20.8       56.0         64.0
CONStt?t?T ION
PASSENGER CAS PER THOUSAfD
POPULATION                          0.7          1.0       2.1              4.0         9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         23.0      79.0              44.3       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.2          1.4        1.8              2.9       13.5         38.3
NVSPAPER ("DArLY GENERAL
FTEZREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   8.0          5.0        9.0              5.6       18.3         40.0
Cl'tA ANUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        0.5              0.4        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
MTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18300.0/f   25600.0   27700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.3         40.6      40.2             31.9        29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.8         62.1      56.0             77.6        62.7         43.5
I3USTR7Y (PERCENt)                 10.4         13.8      18.0              7.9        11.9         21.5
PARTIClPATION RATE (PERCET)
TOTAL                                42.7         40.5       39.1             40.8       37.1         33.5
MALE                                 50.9         48.8       47.4             53.9       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                               34.8         32.4       31.0             25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4/f        1.2        1.4              1.2        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCE.'n OF ?RIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGNEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..         ..               .        15.2         20.8
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      .           ..         .                ..       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..         ..              ..         6.3          3.9
tIWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TUGCET GROU?S
ESTlMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     352.0            187.6       241.3        270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     156.0             96.8       136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     286.0            138.4       179.7        282.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      95.0             71.0       103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOXE LEVEL (PERCE)T)
URBAN                                ..           ..         .             34.5        24.8         20.5
RURAL                                *-           *-      27.0             48.7        37.5         35.3
Not available
.NO applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of che indicator and the most populated countrv in ech group.  Coverage of countries a*ong the
indicators depends on availability of data and ts not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; end for Most Recent a-sziOae, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic  Africa South of Sahara;   Id  Lower Middle Income (5291-550 per capita. 1976);   Ie  Intermedtate Middle
incoag (5551-1135 per capita.   76);  /f  1963;   a5  1961-63;   Ih  Including ex-north Cateroons under
Orttish administration;   /i  certain fields of study previously c4assifted under other second level edu-
cation of a vocational of Technizal nature are now resorted under general education;   i!  1965-66 averase.
rAst Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



ANNEX T
- 22 -                                                                         Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIoN$ nfl q0Cr9T. INDICATORS
Nor.. :  Alrhn..gh the dote ore drawn fro, e-ro. generally judged the. moat aothortltatle and reliable. it should also be noted than then may not be Inter-
nationalIly cepsor ahiebecau.se of the loch of atandardi-ed definitions and concepts oeed by different countries  in collecting th, dare.   The dare are. nnrees
useful cv descibe orders of magnitude,  indicate  trends, and chara,Lcirle  certain maJor differences between co-ntris..
The adl.ostdjrou.o~ a-ereges for each indicator are populetion-weighted g.ee,tric means, excluding the eotreme vef"es of the indicator and the most
populated country in each gru-P.  Coverar of countries  "mnog the indicators depends on  vslifvof date an,d l  cot uniform,   DUs to lack of data,
group sweregs for Capital hornl-tis    l Koporter  and indicators of oc.ess to voter end eacrets dispose.1 hbousiof. inc ses dIstribution end poverty are
eimpl  popoltiont-weleihtd geomeric  --oo.o athont the excusion of extreme -slue..
LAND &M!A (thousan.d sq. ko)                                                                Population pet hospital bed - total. uarban,nd rutal - Populetion (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising bonA area e-I" inland weters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respecti-s number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Moot recent estixate of agrc..ultc  L ara. used temporarily                   -oilahle is~ public and private general and specilaized hospital sod te-
ar permanentLy tot crops, peetur.a, murkst and u..tchsm  gsrdeo. or to                    habhlltration  cttees.  Hospitalo  are establishosots permanently staffed by
liet fallow.                                                                              at least none pbysitiao.  istablish.ents providing principslly cuotodial
GNP PER CAPIII                                                        C:~~~~~~~~~~~~Tat  are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and nedi-
_CUSRRCPIA(il  - GOP perc npits estimates at current market prices,                   tel it  eore not permanently staffed Op s physician (hut by a medicsi .a-
calculated by sane conversion nethod as World Beank Atlas (1975-77 bsisi);                dentent. nurse, midwife, etc.) which  Wafr In-patient attoemodation sod
1960, 1970. and 1977 dAts.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total oumber of admissions to or diacherges
CNuRIY CONSLliTtON PER CAPITA - Anouai to-suaption of commercial energy                       frog hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(toal sod lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydno-. nuclear and geo-
thermal. electricity) in kilogramso of coal aquivalenr per tapits.                    HlOL'SING
-               ~~~~Avrage sine of hou-ehold (persons ner hou..sehold) - total, Urban. end rural -
POPULATION h7NT VITALSOTATISTICO                                                              A household consists of a grcup of individuala who share lining quartets
Total population. -mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not aysilable,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger nap or nay nor ha included in
average of too end-year necioates; 1960, 1971. and 1977 data,                             the household for staristical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house -
Urban population (pe.rcentof total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       bald vary.
tionl, different definitinon  of urban arsas map affect coxparsbility                   Avesage cnkmer of persons per room - total, Urban, and rural - Average nuo-
of dare among countries.                                                                  her of parsons per room. in all, Urban, and rural occupied conventional 
Population dens ity                                                                         dwellings, respecti-1-~  Dwellings  exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  eq. in. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 bectAres)                     u..accUpied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Arress tc electricity (porcent of dwellings) - total, urban, cxi rural -
Par sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultrarl lentd                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, Urban, and rursl dwellings respectIvely.
Population age structure (me-et-) - Children (0-14 years), worbing-age
(15-64 pears), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATIONf
year population.                                                                       Adjlusted ..n.cllment ratios
Population growth rtar  (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annu al                   Primary school - tota.1  a-d fexuale - Total and female enrolLoenc of all ages
growth rates of total and Urban mid-year populatconu for 1950-60,                         at the primary level au p-eretages of respectively prinany sho-g
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations ; no,rnally Includes children aged h-Il years but adjusted for
Crude birth rata (Per thousa.nd) - Annual live births Pac thousand of                       different lengths of primary eduction; for  -outries with u-iv-roal edo-
mid-year populatios; nec-your urithastic  -voragox ending in 19h0 an.d                    cation enrolme.nt may socoed Ill peccat since some pupilo axe below or
1910 and five-year average ending lx 1975 for mos t recent estimate,                      above tie official shoage.
Crude death rats (per thousand) - Anc,ua1 deaths per thousa.nd of nid-                    Secondary school - total, A,d fenole - Coobputed as obovo; secondary edaca-
year population; ton-year arinhorco, a-nags.  onding in 1960 and 1970                     rico requiros at bus..t four yoccn of  pyyrv-d primary instructIon; pro-
cnd five-year average ending in 1197)  or most rece nt estimaite.                         vidas g.enera  vocatlc-l, or  -touher truinig !nntcuctl..s  fur pupils
Irons reproduction rare - Averago number of daughters a woan will hear                      usually of 12 to 17 yearn cf ago; corresp.ondece  courses are ge...rally
in her oormal osproducci-v poriod it sh.e.operie.cus   prene..t age-                      excluded.
spscific motility races; unually fion-psar  --eogo.noxding ic 1960,                     boalnloclou   cveco   rodr)- Vocticl..I inoctn-xocr in-
1970, and 1975.  c'     ~.                                                                 ldud   technical, inotll   rohcprogrums which operate independently
Fmily Planning -  ccptufn..anual (thousan.ds) - AnnUal number of                            or ax p derton.rs of secondary   -instlrtixen.
acceptors of hirtr-nontrol devices o.dor uuupicco  of cational family                  Pupil-trachsc con ic - prisn1     -ujoocndarv    Total students onrollsd i.
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divcded by numbers of teachers in the corre-
FamIlly Plannin.g - users (percont of nanried women) - Paccentagn of                         epooding levels.
manned women of cicild-bnarlcg age (15-u4 yearn) wohUseu hirth-co-tc-1                 Adult literacy rste (o-cc-ty  - Litorace adults (abla no read and wrino) as
devices to all married wumes in saun age grxup.                                           a peruentaga of total adult pop,cation aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND RIUTRITION                                                                      CONSI(PTIOti
lInden of food production Per capita (19701-l) - tndes nueber of per                    Passe.nger corn (per thousan.d popua1_tion)2 - Passenger cars comprise actor ccar
tapirs annual production of all food consndities.                                       seating le.. than eIght persons; occludes ambulances, hearses and military
Pen  -snit.  uppoly of clre   (pcocooc of renuiromeens) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equicalent of net food sppylies available in country per capita                 Radio veceloecs (per thoon.And_conslaion)  - All types of rexeivers for radio
per day.  Acailable nopplias comprIse do..catic production, imports less                broadcasts to generol public per thccsasd of popolutlon; socludes solloce-od
"aports, and changes in stuck.  Net supplios emcoude animal food, seeds,                receivers in countries and in yenrs when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, au,d looses in dixtrlbutlon.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years say not be comparable since most countries
quOrements were estimated by FAO busod on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considoring   -r-ccn tnca  tenpenarure. body                   TV rocalve-s (per thousand populatimn(  - TV receivers for broadcaot to ceneral
weIghts, age and sex distributions of Popolation, and allowing li per-                    public per th--sad Population; occludes u-1ice...d T V receivers ic coo-
cant for waste at household level,                                                        tries one. In y-ears when  -nglotration of TV vats was in effort.
Per capita supply of protein (grass car day) - Protein con tent of per                   Newspaper circulation ijer th.ousnd populunico) - Shows the average ccua
capita net Suppip of ixod per day.  Net supply of food is defined us                      ti.n of 'daily general i,t-re.t  -rspcper". defined as a periodical yuhli-
above.  Req.irements for all countries escublisbed by VIJSA provide for                   cation devoted pro...cily to recordiog goxe.a  news    It in considecod to
a sininue alinw..nca of 6i gr-am  of total prtetIn per day and -If grans                  ha 'doily" if it appoacsorle at bout mfour      loawosk
of aimal and pulse proteIn, of which 10 grams shculd be animal pcrotin.                 yena. anvoal attendujjjjr .u21to pvc 'coon - iaued on the n-oer ci ticints
These etandards are lower than thcan of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during rho your, including adoinsio.. to drive-tn ciromos and solbin
23 grma ad animal protein as ax average far rho corld. prpopnd by                        units.
PIAO io the Third World Food Survey.
Far capita protein supply from urina  ucd poise - Protein supply of food                EMiPLOYIcEIIT
derived iron asieals and pulnos in grams Pen day.                                      Total labor force (thocu.anis) - Fcconomic.IIY active persons. including armd
Child (ages 1-4) oort.ulity rate (per thouvand) - Annual desthe per thcuu-                   forces and un-ployed hut exoluding ho...ociv-s, stodents. etc.  loui-'
and in ago grop 1-4 years, to child-ex in this age group.                                 tioso in -caciou     .. cc iclo  sty  -c  comparable.
Penue (ervrt)-  o..ale labor forco as- percencago of total lahcr force.
NEALTHI                                                                                   Agriculture (pcre-t) - Lhot-  c-torte o forming, focestvy, huntitg .v. fithing
Life e-p-tancy or birth(yas - Average num ber oi peers nf life                              as percentage of total labor force.
r ama ising at birth; Usually five-year avesages ending in 196i, 1970.                 Inoa-try tperceytj - Laor- force I, mining, contruction, manufacturing and
sod 191.mlctricity, curer and gas as peccrtage of tyral labor force.
infant motlt ae(e_r thousan.d) - Annual deaths of infants Under                          Participaticsrt.       yrer   totL.1  .ale. ndA female1  - Total, male, sod
non  yea  of age per thoosan.d live birhts.                                               fe...le labor force as p-oronocgen of their respective popolations.
Access to safe cater ipercent of poyspoioni) - trt.1, urban, and coral-                      These are  Ll0's adjosted participation rates reilertiog ape-se
Numbker of psople (total, urban, and  ural.) with reasonable access to                    otrroctore   c he qpcpcition. and long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes trtedre  surface -cter. or uc.treated bct                  Uconmc  eedency ratio - Ratio cf population under 11 and 65 and  -ra to
uncontaminated water ouch As that roo  protctrs  boreboles, springs,                      the labor txrce in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary well.) as percentages of their rexpec:ive populations.
Is an urban arsa a public foc..coin or standpost located not more                     INhiOMt JtST510CTION
than 200 motors from a house may be  --xsder-d as baing within tea-                    Percentoge of pri,,ace income (both ic c.sh and bind) rece ived by richest 5
aonable snoba  of that ihouse.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest !O peccant, pcoreat 20 peccent, and Poorest 40 percent
i,ply that the housewife or zsohers of the hous-hod do nor h,av  to                       of h.oueholds.
apsnd a dlpr-p-rtionacs Par. of tIe day in fetcching the family's
wagerseeds..                                                                           POVFOTY TARCE7 GROtIPO
rural - Nuohar of poopla  ttl   .rbur, and rural) served by sceeAbsolute pcerty income leve  Is that incorv  leve  hel- whild   a  cia
disposal as percent.Sge  of theIr reap-crice populaticon.   Encreta                        nutritionlly adequate dint pia ose..ontisl non-food requir ..at-  Ia. not
disposal  nap Includs ch. colleccoon and disposal, with or without                         afo.rdabie.
tesonent  of  o nc asretacod  au--wa- b ywtrcnysaatixedestonocoxbneeeliner oanib-a    -uban and r-rl1
or. theusofpitpiIsadsmlrlsalt s                                                            Relative poverty 10-00  1-co  is that income leve  lose ta               -hr
toosIatlos Per physician - Populacios divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal inoeof the -ountrY
physicians qualified from  a medical school at univenoIty level.                        Es_tinatd  poyat in below, yc    1moalvl(ecett                        ca   n   aa 
Population  teturig  uso     PopufaEico divLdad by numebr of                                 Perccan  of population (urban and rural) who are sothar "absolute poor" or
prciogml-a.nd fs.ale graduate  uss  prtioica  nres, asd                              "relative psor" whicheost  ia &-nt-r
Econom ic end Soucial Data Dilolici.
Itranoeit Analysis and Projsctclnn Pep-larceet



- 23 -
ANNE X  I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC NTlICATOnlS
GROSS 1!1..  C';AT, P1OtDUCT I.N 1977                                     AflUUAL RkTAG CF  O.0'Wr  (%. ccnit;nt pric3.i)
M !Ln.        J2 1974-77                                                          I 7O 12
GICP at Y.erket Prices         39839         100.0                           7.4                11.3              5.4
Gross Dr.iestic iTve5tmont    12119           30.4                          30.7                24.5             23.6
Gross lat'cr.al Savin;         11101         _.28.3                         26.3                16.6             17.8
Curren' Account Balance        -1018           2.5
Exports o: ^cods, !1?S         12639          31.7                           1.9                14.7              9 9
Imports Of 000ds, tJFS         13236          33.2                          33.1                31.0             17.5
OWTPUT, US-L   FOR:2 AND
pDJ.Tr)v Z  197T
Value Added                    Labor Force/                     V. A. Psr Wccrker
U51 YaFn .                                                           us !n.    U
Agriculturs                     9897        30.4                  38.3       61                      541          50
Induatry                       15032        46.2                   5.2       17                     2891         265
Services                        7636        23.4                   S.0       17                     1527         140
Una1Iocated                                                        1.4        5.
Tota1/Averagt            I              
32566      ic0.0                   29.9    lC0 00 1  9                           100.0
General Goover%rent                               Centr.l C,v\Prn:.^nt
,i   NIn.)      >?                                F'2  _   Ln. ) _    1 Cr .DP
197.Z/7R        L97/S  1976/7-1977/8              1977/8        19777/3i   197617- J77
CUrre?lt Rreipte3                  `8809             34.1         34.8                  8359          32.3            32.7
Currant Ec-'endit'trs               Sfl7             19.5         19.0                  2697          10.4           P7.0
Current Surplus                     3762           -Th            15.6                  5662
Capital !xT.=3ndit,rC3              8822             34.1         33.0                  6287          24.3           24.4
xterua2a Assi3tance (net;
__E_, C.ZDIS __rd P_IC_ S                  1972         1973         1974         1 9J25       i2j         1977
i ClC.ion  y  cutstanding end pericti)
Money and Quasi Money                       1161.4       1414.1       2156.3       3622.5        5278.9    7062.5
Bank crodit to Pablic Sector                 519.0        497.1      -1460.1      -12S1.5        199.5    2C54.4
Bank Credit to Private Sntctor               750.2        854.4       1070.2       1786.1       2417.8    3514.4
(Porcentages or Index Nlurnbors)
jloroey ard Qucsi '%onev as % of GDP          15.1         15.9         16.9        21.9          26.7      27.3
General Price 1r.dex .19c0    IOC)           172.9        203.9        217.0        289.6        352.6    423.1
Annual ce.-c'ntave changas int
Oeneral P: ico  .ex                           -3.5         17.9           6,3        33.5         21.7      21.5
Bank credit to 7Public Sector                 -2.3         -4.2          n.A.        n.a.          n.a.    n.a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                 16.9         12.7         26.6        66.8         35.4       45.1
XO1  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the avaraCe oxcharTte rate ;rsvailing during tha Veriod
covered.
1/ Total lawor forco; unenployad are alloc3ted to sector of theIr normal oeccp3ti4n.  "Unallocated" consi5ts
mainly or urnr.ployod wrkir3 soek.ng th.vir lirst 'ab.
2J Index of Urb an Consttmner rliccn
. Ilot applic.abla



-24 -                       ANNEX I
FaCe 5 of 5
TRADE S ?AY1ZNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
PALANCE OF PAST?rS                                                      MRCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERACE 1976-78)
1976     1977      1978                                                 QS $ min    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, I:FS          10,549   12,974   10,979             Crude Oil                             iO,170    92.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           10,517   13,271   14,242             Cocoa Products                           477     4.3
Resource Cap (deficie  -)           32     -297   -3,263             Palm Products                             38      0.4
Tin       .                              20      0.2
Interest Payments (net)            386      324       246            All Other Commodities                    292      2.6
Workers' Rcmittances               -         -        -
Other Factor Payments (not)       -676     -860      -476
Net Transfers                     -156     -156      -270                                                 -
Balance on Current Account        -414     -989   -3,763                    Total                          10,997   100.0
Direct loreign Investment          340       440      186            EXTERNAL DEM., DECEMMER 31. 1978
Vet ia.T Borrowinig
Disbursements                   '61       96    1,434                                                         US $ HMln
Anortization        '           -29   .  -62       -22
Subtotal                         32       34    1,412               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              2,180
Capital Grants                                        -                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Otlher Cepital (nct)              -453     -112        -5              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                 - 12     -216      -176
Increase in Reserves *+)          -507     -843   -2,346             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978-
Cross Pcserves (end year)        5,517    4,617
Net Reserves   (end year)        5,433    4,590    2.244               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              0.8     (
Non-Guaranteed Private Dobt                 *
Fucl and Related lMaterials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          280       158      174
of which: Petroleum            -        -         -
Exports                 .      9,468   11,553    9,488
of which:  Petroleum.        9,468   11,553    9,488    IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 3-1. 1978) OMillion US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF MXCANCIE.-
Outstandin& & Disbursed                450         38.3
1975:  N1.00  -  uS~i.62                                           Undisbursed                             343         -
1976:  N1.00  -  USS1.60                                          Outstandiu& incl. Undisbursed                       38.3
1977:  H1.00  -  US$1.55
197S:;  11.00  -  US$1.58
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
A Less than 1X
Not Available
$eptcmber. 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of February 29, 1980)
Loan or                                                                 US$ million
Credit                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower        Purpose                     Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Thirteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                  331.3   35.3
814      1972      Nigeria        Education                     17.3              1.8
838      1972      NIGERIA        Roads                         26.3              8.0
847      1972      NEPA           Power                         76.0              1.1
922      1973      NPA            Port                          55.0              2.2
929      1973      Nigeria        Education                     54.0             44.2
1045       1974     Nigeria         Cocoa Dev.                   20.0               6.2
1091       1975     Nigeria        Livestock                     21.0              15.3
1092       1975     Nigeria        Agric. Dev. Funtua            29.0               1.2
1099       1975     Nigeria        Agric. Dev. Gusau             19.0               2.0
1103       1975     Nigeria        Rice Dev.                     17.5               8.3
1164       1975     Nigeria        Agric. Dev. Gombe             21.0               1.5
1183       1975     Nigeria        M.W. State Oil Palm           29.5              25.0
1191       1976     Nigeria        E.C. State Oil Palm           19.0             14.8
1192       1976     Nigeria        W. State Oil Palm             17.0             13.3
1454       1977     Nigeria        Agric. Dev. Lafia             27.0              20.8
1455       1977     Nigeria        Agric. Dev. Ayangba           35.0              27.3
1591       1978     Nigeria        Nuc.Est. Smallholder Oil   30.0                 27.7
1597       1978     NIDB            Industrial Dev.              60.0              59.5
* 1667       1979     Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Bida             23.0              23.0
* 1668       1979     Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Ilorin           27.0              27.0
* 1679       1979     Nigeria         Forestry                     31.0              31.0
* 1711       1979     Nigeria         Water Supply - Kaduna        92.0              92.0
* 1719       1979     Nigeria         Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.  9.0                 9.0
* 1766       1980     NEPA            Power - Lagos               100.0             100.0
* 1767       1980     Nigeria         Urban Dev. - Bauchi          17.8              17.8
Total                                    1,204.7   35.3    580.0
Of which has been repaid                   143.2    2.0
Total outstanding                        1,061.5   33.3
Amount sold                     16.8
Of which has been repaid        16.4         0.4
** Total now held by Bank & IDA             1.061.1   33.3
Total undisbursed                                            580.0
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                           Type of             Amount in US$ Million
Year                                            Business            Loan   Equity   total
1964, 1967,       Arewa Textiles Ltd.            Textile Mfg.         1.0    0.6       1.6
1970
1964            Nigeria Industrial             Dev. Fin. Co.               1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973            Funtua Cottonseed              Veg. Oil             1.6              1.6
Crushing Ltd.                  Crushing
1973            Nigerian Aluminum              Aluminum             1.0    0.3       1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                 Processing
1974            Lafiagi Sugar                  Sugar                       0.1       0.1
Estates
1980            NTM                            Textiles             6.2    0.7       6.9
Total Gross Commitments                             9.8    3.1      12.9
Less cancellations                               0.3               0.3
Less sold or repaid                              2.1    1.5        3.6
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   7.4    1.6       9.0
Undisbursed                                        6.2    0.8        7.0
* Not yet effective.
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 838-UNI    Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973:
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The construction components of the project have been completed.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to complete
disbursements and to allow consultants to complete preparation for a Sixth
Highway Project.
Loan No. 847-UNI    Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
While the completion of the rural electrification component has
been delayed, the project is expected to be completed shortly.
Loan No. 922-UNI    Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Civil works are complete. Container cranes are now installed
and will be in operation soon. Total project costs are much in excess of the
appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns. A revision of the
tariff structure in 1977 considerably improved the financial situation of the
National Ports Authority.
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the scope
of the project is under review. Because of weak management and a need to
redesign the project, completion could be delayed by a year or more. Project
administration was complicated by the partition of many states in 1976.
Discussions have been held between the Bank and the Government with a view to
strengthening the project administration and making adequate provisions for
timely counterpart funding. A revision of the project scope and extension of
the closing date was approved by the Board last year.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all
four participating states. Loan recovery performance has however surfaced
as a major problem. A tight "action program" has been initiated, and it is
expected that updating and reconciliation of farmer loan records will be
completed soon. Local funding for Ondo and Bendel State CDU/TCU is still
inadequate.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976:
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
states and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart funding
from the Federal Government were encountered at first. Following the award
of a management contract for this project, and a reorganization of the project
unit, project implementation has been improved. Supporting services are better
organized, and credit is now being channeled through NACB.
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and state governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily. An
expanded second stage project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State has been
appraised.
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Despite last year's inadequate state funding, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily with support from both Federal and state governments.
Farmer response is good and appraisal objectives are being met and in some
cases exceeded. A second phase project to cover the entire state is being
prepared.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has made a slow start due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from
the project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems
of cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. The remaining funds
set aside for Cross River State will be reallocated to project components
in Anambra and Imo States, where physical project progress and counterpart
funding are most satisfactory, and development is accelerating.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and state governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. A second-stage project to cover the remainder of Bauchi State has
been appraised.
Loan No.  '183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5 mil-
lion Loan of December 31, 1975: Effective Date: October 17,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the Federal
and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal targets for the
nucleus estate and smallholder components have not been met due to continuing
financing and managerial problems, and the monitoring component has not been
fully effective because of staffing difficulties. Specific proposals for
remedial action are under consideration by Government and, provided that these
are implemented, the project is expected to achieve its objectives. Cost
overruns are, however, likely to be substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date: April 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation of
new states and problems with staffing. Project management and staffing are
now satisfactory, but appraisal targets have not been met. Substantial cost
overruns are expected, and there are problems with local funding.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0 million
Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date: February 13,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component continues to face managerial and financial
difficulties, and final targets may not be achieved. For the nucleus estate



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
component, land acquisition, management, and funding problems now inhibit
progress, and plantings are in poor condition. Actions to resolve these
problems have been recommended, and progress will be evaluated shortly. High
cost overruns are expected due to implementation delays and inflation rates
higher than anticipated at appraisal.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project
is still experiencing some problems of a technical nature, particularly
concerning extension and training. However, overall project progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project continues to improve with satisfactory support from the
Federal and state governments. Farmer participation and physical project
progress is good. Disbursements are also proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Proj-
ect: US$30.0 million Loan of June 6, 1976; Effective
Date: July 10, 1979: Closing Date: December 31. 1985
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of problems regarding comple-
tion of the State Loan Agreement, a Management Agreement, and Federal and
State Legal Opinions. Physical progress is satisfactory, and earlier funding
problems have been overcome. The smallholder component faces some managerial
difficulties.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60 mil-
lion Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24,
1978: Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Various sub-loans have
been processed and approved.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is moving towards effectiveness.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is moving towards effectiveness.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan of
October 29, 1979; not yet effective: Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is moving towards effectiveness.
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:  US$92 million Loan of
July 16, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is moving towards effectiveness.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Mlanagement Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is moving towards effectiveness.
Loan No. 1766-UNI   Lagos Power Distribution Project:  US$100 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is moving towards effectiveness.
Loan No. 1767-UNI   Urban Development Project:  US$17.8 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is moving towards effectiveness.



- 31 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Oyo-North Agricultural Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 16 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Federal Government with
assistance of consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: April 1976
(d) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: April 1976
(e) Date of departure of the Appraisal Mission: October 2, 1978
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: November 12, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: August 29, 1980
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Federal
Government and the Oyo State Government (Condition of
Effectiveness; para. 53);
(b)  Gazetting establishment of Oyo-North Project Management Unit
(ONPMU) and the Budget and Policy Coordinating Committee in
a form and with powers and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 47);
(c) Appointment of senior staff for ONPHU with qualification and
experience, and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the
Bank. Signing of a contract with firm of consultants and
appointment of project manager and chief accountant would be
Conditions of Effectiveness (para. 48);
(d) Oyo State Government second appropriate technical and other
staff, including agricultural extension staff to the project
and the three Local Government Councils transfer their road
staff for the duration of their training under the project
(para. 48);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Opening of commercial bank account for ONPMU with initial
deposits of Nl.O million each by Federal and Oyo State Govern-
ments (Condition of Effectiveness, para 54);
(f) Oyo State Government guarantee overdraft on commercial bank
account, up to equivalent of six months' project expenditures
requirements (para 54);
(g) Both Federal Government and Oyo State Government provide at
least three months in advance their quarterly financial
contributions to the project in accordance with the approved
annual project budget (para 54);
(h) Oyo State Government to guarantee that short-term production
loans bear interest rate of 10 percent per annum or 2.5
percent above Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank's
maximum current leading rate, whichever is higher (para 50);
(i) Oyo State Government cause Oyo-North Project Management Unit
to provide all inputs and tractor hire services at prices
sufficient to permit the recovery of the full cost to ONPMIU
(para. 55).



pIGER    yr;   x,__   __.____z  X                                       /   /     ,    ,;                                     IEaRD 14oSs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR  102
ariutror>~~ V >4>t    CAMEROON  KWARA   STATE - <           .w  ,'-    2   F 71    te   xKWARA STAT 
B tENts     cITN.              _         //;(9  _ e  | ~ A
{S\~~~~~ I I IC.                     KWAR            S< T A- TA "-
t00   US'  _   - ~~~~~~~'  g  - ;''   ~~~~~     9          /   o4@ ~~~OYO STATE                                                     4u
Z  <   /   F  a  J  S  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~   )                        1\/ <.ot'> ~~~~~~~Proposed Locations of Admlinistrative Centers,
- 't / /~~~~~ q4 l f ' > /  / sp<s ~~~~~~~~~Service Centers and Roads
Ld                                                                                      0                                             0-  Z- h,lW G -w s.  d   Fr -zool...rt
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F .- S-m u.    , .d -t...
Lij                             "'PP                                                                                                  F. S.-  - t-rldeiee y
gg     \    /S 2_  0_ _\ __ A le ouqer
_7<F <xDOt i~~~~
rw~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. p-. 30-d -L
_,_~ ~~".z                                                                                                                              SW b-.I  I



