LOAN NUMBER 1838 UNI
),)oCUMENTS-
Loan Agreement
(Oyo North Agricultural Development Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1838 UNI
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                a5           , 1980, between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Oyo State of Nigeria
(hereinafter called Oyo State) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Oyo State the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Oyo State;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Oyo State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and the term includes all schedules and all
agreements supplemental thereto;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Oyo State pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and the term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "APMEPU" means the Borrower's Agricultural Projects
Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit established under Loan
No. 1092 UNI (Funtua Agricultural Development Project);
(d) "BPCC" means the Budget and Policy Coordinating Commit-
tee to be established in accordance with Section 2.01 (b) of the
Project Agreement;
(e) "ONPMU" means the Oyo North Project Management Unit to
be established in accordance with Section 2.01 (c) of the Project
Agreement;
(f) "ONPTCC" means the Oyo North Project T-chnical Coordi-
nation Committee to be established under Section 2.01 (d) of the
Project Agreement;
(g) "MANR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources of Oyo State;
(h) "Naira" or "N" means the currency of the Borrower;
(i) "Project Area" means the local government areas of
Ifedapo, Irepo and Kajola in the northern part of Oyo State;
(j) "FMA" means the Federal Ministry of Agriculture;
(k) "AISU" means the Agricultural Inputs Service Unit of Oyo
State; and
(1) "OYSICC" means the Oyo State Investment and Credit
Corporation.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Bank is hereby authorized on receipt of reimburse-
ment claims to pay amounts to be reimbursed in respect of expen-
ditures made by ONPMU under the Project through the Central Bank
of Nigeria directly into the bank account established for ONPMU
under the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Section 2.05 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Project Agreement and
paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b) The Borrower hereby agrees that the following provi-
sions shall apply with respect to procurement by FMA's Central
Fertilizer Unit of fertilizer for projects financed by the Bank:
(i) fertilizer procured for such projects: (A) shall
in each case be identifiable; (B) shall be governed
in every respect by the procurement procedures
referred to in paragraph (a) above; and (C) shall
be carried out in accordance with a timetable
agreed by the Bank and the Borrower;
(ii) procurement of fertilizer for such projects shall
be jointly monitored by the Borrower and the
Bank with a view to identifying and removing any
sources of slippage in such procurement;
(iii) no later than two years after the date of this
Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank shall hold
a joint review of the operating procedures for
such procurement with a view to making recommenda-
tions on the need for procedural reform or insti-
tutional strengthening.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall estabLish. The,Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five per cent (8.25%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of
Finance, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall within the limits of its constitutional powers ensure
that Oyo State performs in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Oyo State to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to the proceeds of the Loan to Oyo State
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into by the
Borrower and Oyo State, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank including repayment of principal in
20 years, an annual interest rate which shall not be less than the
rate specified in Section 2.06 hereof and a grace period of 5
years.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 (b) above, the Borrower
shall: (i) make adequate budgeting provisions for, and pay to
ONPMU at least three months in advance, quarterly contributions
for the Project based on the annual budget of ONPMU approved by
Oyo State and estimated by the Borrower and the Bank to amount
in the aggregate to ten million four hundred thousand Naira
(N10,400,000) (exclusive of subsidies on farm inputs) over the
project period; and (ii) make an initial deposit of one million
Naira (N1,000,000) into the bank account established for the use
of ONPMU under Section 2.02 (a) (i) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall provide in its budgets
amounts sufficient to cover any loss ONPMIJ shall incur in any year
on account of the sale or provision by ONPMU c,' farm inputs or
services to farmers participating in the Pro& zt at subsidized
prices or rates determined by the Borrower. The Borrower shall pay
ONPMU, no later than September 30 of the year immediately preced-
ing the year in which the farm input or service is to be procured,
an amount equal to a reasonable estimate of such loss furnished
by ONPMU to the Borrower. After the farm input or service has been
procured, necessary adjustments shall be made between the Borrower
and ONPMU to ensure that any payments made by the Borrower pur-
suant to this Section shall correspond to the loss actually
incurred by ONPMU.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause FMA to prepare a
report and formulate proposals on the Project's progress and shall
review such report and proposals with the Bank and Oyo State no
later than December 31, 1984. The Borrower shall for the purpose
of this review make such recommendations for the future of the
Project as it shall consider necessary.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish the Bank not later
than June 30, 1980 with its plans for rehabilitating the Iseyin-
Shaki road in the Project Area.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; (ii) undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the
Borrower (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
of the Borrower) as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably, secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that in
the cr!ation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Borrower will,
within the limits of its constitutional powers, make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on assets of any of
the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency of any such
political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is
unable within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such
undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any such
political subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria or
any institution performing the function of a central bank for the
Borrower.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Oyo State shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or Oyo State shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Oyo State will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any event specified in
paragraph (a) or (b) in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and
Oyo State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and Oyo State, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b) a bank account has been established at a commercial
bank for ONPMU and an initial deposit of one million Naira
(N1000,,000) paid therein separately by Oyo State and the
Borrower in accordance with Section 2.02 (a) of the Project
Agreement and Section 3.02 of this Agreement;


﻿-8-
(c) BPCC and ONPMU have both been duly established and
gazetted in accordance with Section 2.01 (b) and (c) of the
Project Agreement;
(d) the Project Manager and chief accountant have been
appointed in accordance with Section 2.03 (a) of the Project
Agreement; and
(e) the signing of an agreement with a firm of consultants
in accordance with Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Oyo State, and is legally binding upon Oyo State
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Oyo State, respec-
tively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Oyo State in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date   AJwond-A-    >         , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conaitions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
Lagos, Nigeria


﻿-9-
Cable address:                      Telex:
21428
PERMFIN                            LAGOS
Lagos
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /1 L-51 c
,-    Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
l  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amouty,s of thc Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Catego.y               Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil works                6,200,000        60%
(2) Vehicles, trac-            9,900,000        100% of foreign
tors, roadmaking                           expenditures if
equipment and                              directly im-
spare parts                                ported or 90% if
procured locally
(3) Salaries and allow-        4,600,000        100%
ances of interna-
tionally recruited
staff, consultant
services and over-
seas training
(4) Fertilizer, chem-          4,500,000        100% of foreign
icals and other                            expenditures if
farm inputs                                directly im-
ported or 85% if
procured locally
(5) Unallocated                2,800,000
TOTAL      28,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimted that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Bank may, in consultation with the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,


﻿- 12 -
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Farm and Crop Development
(1) Introduction of simple improved farming practices
to smallholders in the Project Area, numbering about
52,000, through strengthening of extension services;
the use of improved seed, fertilizer, crop production
measures and improved manual and mechanized techniques.
(2) Inuroduction of more advanced improvea farming practices
including chemical weed control and minimum tillage for
about 3,500 farmers on about 12,500 hectares of land.
(3)  ?tablishment. of a farm management service with planning
capability to assist group and individual farmers in
their operations including: (i) purchase of new and
replacement tractor units; (ii) a program for training
AISU's personnel; and (iii) encouragement of private
operators to purchase tractors and provision to such
operators of necessary training, maintenance, facilities
and other forms of assistance.
(4) Testing of new technology and farming practices,
including the acquisition and development of three
government farms near Shaki, Oke-Iho and Kishi for crop
trials and applied research purposes, and practical
trials and demonstrations of low horse power tractors
and implements.
(5) Strengthening of Oyo State's seed multiplication service
and organization of outgrowers to produce an adequate
supply of seed and planting material including: (i)
establishment of arable areas under the control of
ONPMU to concentrate on production of cassava and yam
planting material; and (ii) introduction of a seeds and
planting material inspection and certification system
conjointly with Oyo State's seed multiplication service.
(6) Provision of assistance in land clearing including the
renting to farmers of hand operated winches and light
bush clearing aids.


﻿- 14 -
(7) Strengthening of the existing farm input supply system
including: (i) the provision of technical assistance to
AISU and OYSICC; (ii) direct purchase by ONPMU of
additional farm inputs; (iii) provision of materials for
construction of on-farm storage facilities; and (iv)
provision to farmers of tools, planters, sprayers, and
other agricultural items to be sold for cash or on
credit.
Part B:   Civil Works
(1) Program of road construction including: (i) construction
of about 550 km of new feeder roads; (ii) improvement
of about 250 km of existing roads; and (iii) maintenance
for three years of the said roads until they are handed
over to local government councils.
(2) Establishment and equipment of a road and dam construc-
tion unit.
(3) (a) Construction for the larger population centers of
about 28 small dams and 12 medium sized dams
including the installation of livestock watering
facilities and simple water treatment plants;
and
(b) sinking of about 300 wells in the small villages
and hamlets, using hand-operated rigs.
(4) Construction of a central workshop at Shaki to service
and repair plant and vehicles, establishment of mobile
field units and radio to support the workshops opera-
tions.
(5) Building program consisting of the construction of about
16 senior, 28 intermediate and 16 junior staff houses,
offices, about 17 farm service centers, stores and
storage facilities, and seed farm buildings.
Part C:   Training Support
(1) Formal staff development training programs to supplement
on-the-job experience.


﻿- 15 -
(2) Technical training for staff: (i) including specialized
training courses in the agronomic and technical needs of
the Project; (ii) training of extension and agricultural
assistants for the Project; (iii) short courses for
agricultural staff, mechanics, bookkeepers, storemen,
salesmen, and other project and AISU staff; and (iv)
overseas training in specific technical subjects where
such training is necessary and not available in Nigeria.
(3) Overseas short training courses for staff in management
fields where such training is necessary and not avail-
able in Nigeria.
(4) Program of farmer training.
(5) Program of training for local government council staff,
particularly in maintenance of road and wells and
administration.
(6) Development and monitoring of new training techniques
and training programs, and development of such programs
on a state-wide basis in anticipation of an expansion of
the Project to other parts of the state.
Part D:   Consultant Services
Provision of about 36 man-months of:
(1) technical consultancy services to review and make
recommendations on the improvement of agricultural
management, work methods and organizations, and the
introduction of new technology including practical
assistance with developing improved techniques for
minimum tillage and training of extension staff to
assist smallholders in applying these findings;
(2) technical assistance in establishing management training
and staff development programs, including yearly visits
to the Project and the assessment and evaluation of the
progress of staff training and development;
(3) technical consultancy services to carry out a hydro-
geological study to determine the ground water potential
for the Project Area and to recommend the most appro-
priate and cost effective method of providing domestic
water supplies;


﻿- 16 -
(4) technical assistance for start-up operations including,
as necessary, the establishment of accounting systems
for the Project; and
(5) tax consultancy services to evaluate the potential tax
base for the local government authorities in the Project
Area and make recommendations on the development of an
equitable tax or fee structure that will assist in
appropriate recovery for facilities included in Part B
above.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1985
through   August 1, 1999                    935,000
On February 1, 2000                              885,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repaymenL in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                        1.25%
before maturity
More than three years but                        2.50%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          4.55%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                       6.60%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                      7.40%
not more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                         8.25%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this A -day of4., 198 0
FOR SECRETARY


