OVICIAL
DOCMENTS LOAN NUMBER 2041 EGT
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Telecommunications Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                        20    , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2041 EGT
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                        , 1982, between ARAB
REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter c    led the Guarantor) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications
Organization, a public organization established and operating
under the laws of the Guarantor, (hereinafter called the Borrower)
the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-four million dollars ($64,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICIE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the


﻿-2-
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set  orth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, or of the Borrower's 1982-1985 Pro-
gram described in the Annex to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to
provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with
such funds in local or foreign currency as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
oi7 any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign ewchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,   so facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,


﻿-3-
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the, Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall cause each of its
ministries, departments and agencies to pay its debt for services
rendered by the Borrower within three months of the. billing
date.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor, as the majority shareholder
of the Borrower's capital, shall exchange views regularly with the
Bank in respect of the Borrower's investment program and capital
needs.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Economy or the Under-Secretary
for International Finance of the Ministry of Economy of the
Guarantor, is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economy
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                   Telex:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY              GAFEC 348 UN
Cairo,
Arab Republic of Egypt


﻿-4-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098' (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By j4       ~        '
Iuu.Regional Vice President
Europe, Midde East and North Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        198  .
FOR SECRETARY


