Report No. 374a-BA
Appraisal of   FILE COPY                                                                       RTU O
REOR'TS
Forestry Project
in Burma
May 24, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report wds prepared for offikial use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cired without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility tor the ar-urdLy tl completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                 =  Kyat (K) 4.81
K 1 (100 Pyas)       =  US$0.208
K 1 million (M)      =  US$208,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hoppus foot (HF)        =  1.273 cubic feet (ft ) true
geometric measure
1 log ton (LT)            =  50 HF in round logs or
= 50 ft3 of converted lumber, or
= 63.75 ft3 true geometric measure, or
= 1.805 cubic meter (m3) roundwood
under bark
1 sawn ton (ST)           =  50 ft3 or
=  1.416 m3 (sawnwood)
1 metric ton (mt)         =  2205 pounds
1 long ton                =  1.02 (mt)
1 pound (lb)              =  0.45 kilograms (kg)
1 mile (mi)               =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)    =  2.589 square kilometers (sq km)
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 millimeter (mm)         =  0.04 inches (in)
1 meter (m)               =  1.09 yards (yd)
Fiscal Year - April/March
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
CC        -  Construction Corporation
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
CP        -  Cooperative Program (FAO/IBRD)
DCA       -  Director of Commercial Audits
ECC       -  Equipment Control Committee
FAO       -  Food and Agricultural Organization of the UN
FD        -  Forest Department
FEC       -  Foreign Exchange Committee
GOB       -  Government of Burma
MAF       -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MPF       -  Ministry of Planning and Finance
PPC       -  Paper and Pulp Corporation
PU        -  Project Unit
ROR(E)    -  Economic Rate of Return
ROR(F)    -  Financial Rate of Return
STB       -  State Timber Board
TC        -  Timber Corporation
TOR       -  Terms of Reference
UBB       -  Union of Burma Bank
UGCF      -  Union Government Consolidated Fund
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
WCS       -  Working Capital Scheme



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................  i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION ..........................................                1
II.    BACKGROUND ............................................    2
A.    General ..........................................    2
B.    Forestry Sector ..................................    2
C.    Institutions .....................................               4
III.  PROJECT AREA ........................                                     5
IV.   THE PROJECT ...........................................                 5
A.    General Description ..............................    5
B.    Detailed Features ................................               7
C.    Environmental Impact .............................   11
D.   Cost Estimates ...................................   11
E.   Financing, Procurement and Disbursement .13
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................   15
A.    Timber Corporation ...............................   15
B.    Project Unit .........          ............................    15
C.    Bank Accounts .........          ...........................   16
D.    Accounting Systems and Audit .....             ................   17
E.    Project Review Committee .........................   18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ....              .......   18
A.   Production ..........          .............................    18
B.   Marketing and Prices .............................   19
C.   Financial Projections ............................   20
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission to Burma in
September/October 1973, comprising Messrs. S. Thillairajah, R.D.H. Rowe,
C.F. Amerasinghe (IDA), F. Zurbrugg (FAO), N.A. Read (Consultant - roads
engineer) and E. Susaeta (Consultant - forestry economist) and on informa-
tion furnished by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in its Report No.
19/73 (Burma).



-2-
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......    .....................  21
A.   Economic Impact     ..................................  21
B.  Economic Rate of Return ..........................  21
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............. ..  23
ANNEXES
1.  Glossary
2.  Place of Project in the Development of Burma's Forestry Sector
3.  Forest Resource Base
4.  Forest Department
5.  Timber Corporation
6.  Road Construction
7.  Timber Extraction
8.  Sawmilling
Appendix - TOR for Sawmill Specialist
9.  Technical Assistance - TOR for Specialists
10   Feasibility Studies
Appendix - TOR for Studies
11.  Project Capital Costs
Table 1 - Summary of Capital Costs
Table 2 - Road Construction
Table 3 - Timber Extraction
Table 4 - Sawmills, Workshops and Administration
Table 5 - Technical Assistance
Table 6 - Feasibility Studies
Table 7 - Forest Department
12.  Disbursement Schedule
13.   Financial Projections
Table 1 - Operating Costs
Table 2 - Incremental Production
Table 3 - Incremental Revenue
Table 4 - Financial Rate of Return
Table 5 - Project Unit Cash Flow



-3-
14.   Annual Audit Guidelines
15.   Markets and Marketing
16.   Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Without Project Benefits
Table 2 - Economic Rate of Return
CHARTS
1.   Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
2.   Forest Department
3.   Timber Corporation
4.   Project Unit
MAPS
1.   Country and Forest Area - IBRD 10950
2.   Project Area - IBRD 10768






BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
has placed high priority in its second 4-Year Plan (FY74-FY78) as well as in
the first Plan on exports from the agricultural, livestock, fisheries and
forestry sectors to diversify production and alleviate the chronic shortage
of foreign exchange. This report appraises a project which would finance
a first phase in the planned development of Burma's forestry sector.
Burma's forests cover 57% of its land area and contain many varieties of
valuable timber. Teak is the most important, as Burma possesses about 75%
of the world's remaining teak resources. Despite its unique forestry
potential Burma's production of forestry products over the past decade
increased by only 2.5% annually, and Burma has been unable to meet the
growing world demand for teak. Over the years a backlog of ripe girdled
teak trees has been building up. The main reasons for this build up have
been insurgent activities, lack of access roads and inadequate extraction
power.
ii.       The proposed IDA Credit would be the first Bank Group operation
for forestry development in Burma. The major objective of the Project is
to step-up timber extraction in 8 Forestry Divisions in South Central
Burma. It would harvest a backlog of 250,000 LT of teak; maintain teak
extraction at the Annual Allowable Cut 1/ level of 65,000 LT and treble
the extraction of non-teak hardwoods to about 145,000 LT per annum. The
Project investments comprise construction and upgrading of access and
feeder roads; equipment for log extraction and transport; workshop and
administration equipment; minor rehabilitation of sawmills in the Project
area; supervision vehicles for the Forest Department; technical assistance
for training, and engagement of five technical specialists; and feasibility
studies of future forestry development projects.
iii.      Project implementation would be by a special Project Unit
within the Timber Corporation complex, headed by a Project Director and
strengthened by suitably experienced specialists. It would be carried out
with the assistance of a Project Planning Committee. A Project Review Com-
mittee, including representatives from the Ministries of Planning and Finance
and Agriculture and Forests, would advise on marketing policy and investment
planning.
iv.       Project costs covering a five year period are estimated at
US$35.8 M with a foreign exchange component of US$24 M (67%). The
proposed IDA Credit would finance the entire foreign-exchange component.
Additional foreign exchange needed for equipment operating spares, and
replacements after the five-year period would be provided by Government.
1/   See glossary in Annex 1.



- ii -
US$22.6 M of the IDA Credit is intended to meet foreign exchange costs of
road construction, extraction, workshop and administration equipment; reha-
bilitation spare parts; technical specialists; and staff training. This
amount would be onlent to Timber Corporation for a fifteen year period,
including a five year grace period, at 7-1/4% per annum. Local currency
component of the Project Costs would be financed out of self-generated funds.
Local currency costs of feasibility studies, and Forest Department supervision
vehicles would be met by Government.
v.        All equipment and initial spares for road construction, extraction
and workshop, and vehicles would be procured by international competitive
bidding following IDA guidelines. It would, however, not be appropriate or
practical to follow international competitive bidding procedures for purchas-
ing items of small value such as office equipment and research supplies
totalling US$100,000; or for spare parts totalling US$1.4 M required for
rehabilitation of existing field machinery and sawmills as these are specific
by make and model. Technical Specialists and consultants for feasibility
studies would be engaged in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
vi.       The proposed Project would, over a ten-year period, produce about
780,000 LT of teak and 855,000 LT of other hardwoods. It would generate
incremental foreign exchange earnings of about US$175 M; and additional
budgetary support of K 550 M (US$114 M) in the form of royalties, income
tax, sales tax, import duties and interest. The financial rate of return
would be 76% 1/ and the economic rate of return more than 100%. The high
returns can be explained by the existence of a valuable teak resource and
sunk costs in infrastructure. The Project would also create additional
employment for about 2,000 persons.
vii.      The Project is considered suitable for an IDA Credit of US$24 M
to the Government of Burma.
1/   33% after charging Corporation tax at 50% on profits.



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group resumed activity in Burma in 1971.  A Bank Economic
Review Mission visited Burma in March 1972. 1/ In October 1972 a Timber
Industry Review Mission identified a forestry project, 2/ and subsequently the
Government of Burma (GOB) requested a Credit of US$24.0 million (M) from
the Association to finance the proposed project. The FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program (CP) fielded a mission in the spring of 1973 to assist GOB in the
detailed preparation of this project. 3/ This report is based on the
findings of an IDA appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Thillairajah, Rowe,
Amerasinghe (IDA), Zurbrugg (FAO), Read and Susaeta (consultants) which
visited Burma in September/October 1973. The mission worked closely with
a forestry mission of Canadian International Development Association (CIDA)
composed of Messrs. Breuer and McNutt which visited Burma at the same time.
1.02      This would be the first Bank Group project in Burma's forestry
sector. In FY73, two IDA Credits totalling US$33 M were made to assist
Burma's transport sector. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans
totalling US$33.4 M for transportation projects. These loans have been
fully disbursed and the repayment amount outstanding as of April 30, 1974
was US$6.4 M.
1.03      The proposed project is in keeping with the country's strategy
for development of the forestry sector and the improvement of its economy.
Burma's Second Four Year Plan 4/ has as priority "stepping up production in
agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry sectors". GOB's forestry
policy is directed primarily towards accelerating production from Burma's
forests and increasing foreign exchange earnings.
1/   The Economy of the Union of Burma, IBRD Report No. SA-34 of November 10,
1972.
2/   IBRD Report dated December 7, 1972.
3/   FAO/IBRD Report No. 19/73 BUR-2 of July 1973.
4/   Covering FY 74 to FY 78 phase of the Twenty Year Perspective Plan.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Burma's economy depends primarily on the agricultural and forestry
sectors. GO,'s policies have emphasized social objectives rather than eco-
nomic development. Consequently the country's economic growth has been slow.
The average annual increase in gross national product (GNP) has been about
3% in the past 5 years. The 1972 per capita GNP is estimated at US$80
equivalent. Due to inadequate resource mobilization, national savings
remain around 8% of GNP and this is reflected in a low level of investment.
As a result, there has been limited expansion of infrastructure; inadequate
maintenance of existing infrastructure and equipment, and generally poor
utilization of the available resources. The forestry sector has been no
exception to this general pattern.
2.02      Export of timber, mostly teak, has always been a major source
of foreign exchange earnings ranking second to rice in value. In 1971,
timber export valued at about US$30 M accounted for 25% of the country's
exports. Over the past decade, the value of forest products increased at
an average annual rate of 2.6% in real terms, and in 1971 was 3% of GNP.
2.03      GOB controls the country's forests and forest based industries.
It wholly owns the Timber Corporation (TC) which has the monopoly for
timber extraction, sawmilling, plywood, and veneer manufacturing and the
Pulp and Paper Corporation (PPC) which is the only producer of pulp and
paper in Burma.
B. Forestry Sector
2.04      The forests of Burma cover 95 M acres, representing 57% of the
land area. Some 52 M acres of the forest land are classified as teak/hardwood
forest. About 75% of the world's remaining teak resources are located in
Burma. Despite favorable world market conditions for timber, Burma's exports
have declined significantly since 1964, solely because log production levels
could not be maintained. There has been a steady build-up of ripe girdled
teak trees (see glossary in Annex 1) left standing in the forests. The
main reasons for this build-up have been lack of forest access roads; in-
sufficient extraction machinery, mill equipment, and spares; inadequate
machinery maintenance; and inadequate power for extraction. Insurgent
activities in forest areas have also contributed to the poor utilization
of the country's forest resources (Annex 2, para 19).
2.05      There are good reasons why Burma wishes to expand its timber
industry: the long term export market for teak is favorable; the world
demand for other hardwood species too is good; Burma's forests are capable
of sustaining a substantially higher annual cut than is currently being



- 3 -
harvested; and the export of wood products - particularly teak - offers
possibly the country's brightest prospects for increasing foreign exchange
earnings. The proposed Project would be the first phase of a planned
development of the forestry sector.
Forest Resource Base
2.06      Burma's annual allowable cut (AAC) (see glossary in Annex 1) is
estimated at 346,000 log tons (LT) of teak and about 2 million LT of
marketable non-teak hardwoods. 1/ Teak removals in recent years had averaged
only 300,000 LT resulting in a serious backlog of some 700,000 ripe girdled
teak trees 2/ standing unextracted. The government's strategy for teak is
to clear the backlog of girdled trees over a period of about ten years and
to harvest the total AAC from 1975 onwards so that no additional backlog
accumulates. This means TC's teak extraction capacity would have to be
stepped up to 450,000/500,000 LT annually until the backlog is cleared.
For non-teak hardwoods, government plans to raise production from the current
level of about 911,000 LT (Annex 2, para 9) to whatever the market can absorb
within the AAC. It will be many years before the limit of 2 million LT is
reached because overseas markets for Burma's non-teak hardwoods have still to
be developed. The systematic exploitation of these forest areas will be
covered by feasibility studies (Annex 10). Detailed description of the
Project's resource base is in Annex 3.
Forest Industries
2.07      Timber extraction and sawmilling have dominated the forest based
industries in Burma. In addition to these, TC owns and operates three ply-
wood mills, a furniture factory and a turpentine distillery plant.
2.08      The pulp and paper industry is still in its infancy.  PPC owns
and operates a bleached sulphate mill at Sittang producing printing and
writing paper. It also produces paperboard, out of waste paper, in its
Rangoon boardmill.
Future Development
2.09      Burma has a valuable and unique under-utilized forest resource
which could support a sustained development of several industries 3/. The
constraints to the successful development of the timber industry are dis-
cussed in para 2.04. A systematic approach to future development, through
feasibility studies, is described in para 4.16.
1/   Economic Accessibility of this 2 million LT has not yet been
established.
2/   Representing about 1.4 million LT of timber.
3/   Sawnwood, wood-based panels, pulp and paper.



-4-
2.10      The Canadian International Development Agency which expressed
interest in financing forestry development projects in Burma, fielded a
forestry mission in September/October to coincide with that of IDA. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) also fielded a forestry mission in August!
September 1973, following which GOB submitted proposals for machinery and
equipment relating to furniture factories; plywood and veneering mills; saw-
milling - rehabilitation and new construction of hardwood mills; and a chip-
board factory. ADB is now exploring the possibility of assisting GOB in the
immediate future with a loan of US$3 to $5 M for TC's urgent development needs.
C. Institutions
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF)
2.11      The primary responsibility for the forestry sector lies with MAF.
Forest management and administration are the responsibility of the Forest
Department (FD) which is one of the many government departments under MAF.
TC, a state commercial enterprise, operates under the administrative control
of MAF (see Organization Chart 1). The PPC however is under the control of
the Ministry of Industries.
Forest Department
2.12      FD's functions include forest inventories, regulating the allow-
able cut, girdling teak trees, collecting timber royalties (due on timber
extracted by TC), afforestation, reforestation, protection and research.
The FD organization is shown in Chart 2. FD is headed by a Director General
who reports to the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests (Annex 4).
Timber Corporation
2.13      TC (known as State Timber Board until February 1972) enjoys the
monopoly of timber exploitation and is the sole exporter of timber products.
TC also controls milling by operating its own sawmills and contracting pri-
vately owned sawmilling facilities. TC headquarters are sited in Rangoon;
its field organization consists of 35 Extraction Agencies (organized within
four Zones); and it employs about 35,000 people (full and part-time). In
addition to these employees, 'felling teams' are engaged on contract basis
for working in the forests.
2.14      TC's capital, owned by GOB, is interest free and non-dividend
bearing. Profits earned by TC are transferred to GOB, as in the case of
other state commercial enterprises, through the medium of income tax. 1/
1/   State Corporations were taxed at 99% of profits until March 31, 1974.
Tax rate has since been reduced to 50%.



- 5 -
TC's organization (see Chart 3), management and financial status are described
in paras 5.01 to 5.04 and Annex 5.
III. PROJECT AREA
General Description
3.01      The Project area is situated in South Central Burma (Map IBRD
10950). It comprises the eight Forest Divisions contained in five of TC's
thirty five Extraction Agencies 1/ - Pakkoku and Thayet Agencies in the Chindwin
Zone; and Prome, Zigon and Tharrawaddy Agencies in the Irrawaddy Zone (Map
IBRD 10768).  The area contains 5 million acres of "mixed deciduous" teak/
hardwood forest. Topography, climate and soils are described in Annex 3,
paras 3 to 5.
Criteria for Selection
3.02      The Project area was chosen for priority development because it
has a heavy backlog of ripe girdled teak and contains extensive stands of
high quality black stripe teak. In addition, the area is largely free of
insurgent activities. Furthermore, mechanized timber extraction has proved
feasible in the area, and the hardwood sawmills situated there are capable,
with some strengthening, of absorbing the increased output from the Project.
Existing Facilities
3.03      Facilities in the Project area include over 400 items of log
extraction equipment (Annex 7, Table 1), about 360 elephants, five Agency
Offices each with a field workshop, and 21 hardwood sawmills. TC also
hires some 160 pieces of extraction equipment (mostly trucks), over 300
elephants and 1,200 pairs of buffaloes. Communications and transport
facilities in the Project area are discussed in Annex 3, paras 6 and 7.
Unskilled labour can easily be obtained from neighbouring villages and towns
along the Irrawaddy river.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The purpose of the Project is to rehabilitate and improve Burma's
forest based industries. The immediate objective is to increase the country's
foreign exchange earnings by removing the backlog of ripe girdled teak trees
1/   Geographic units as defined by TC for administration of its timber
extraction operations.



- 6 -
in the project area, and stepping up the rate of extraction of teak and other
merchantable hardwoods. In addition, the Project investment has been
formulated to prevent recurrence in the future of a similar backlog and
generally to ensure efficient utilization of Burma's forest resources. The
Project would be implemented by a special Project Unit (PU) to be established
within TC (para 5.03).
4.02      To accomplish the above, the Project would include measures to:
-    reduce handling and transport delays;
-    control operating costs by improved management and methods;
-    reduce wastage, losses and log quality deterioration;
-    ensure continuing capacity of sawmills to absorb Project
output of teak and to increase the output of non-teak
hardwood mills in the Project area; and
-    use the Project operation as a demonstration model for
improved systems and management practices that can be
extended to other extraction agencies within the TC complex.
The Project also includes feasibility studies for the further development
of the forestry sector.
4.03      The Project is designed to remove the backlog of 250,000 LT girdled
teak in the Project area and in addition maintain teak extraction level in
the area at the AAC of 65,000 LT. Non-teak hardwood removals would be in-
creased in stages from the current level of 50,000 LT to about 143,000 LT
by FY84. The Project period would be five years although reo val of the
teak backlog would not be completed until the eighth year. New feeder road
construction and some road upgrading would continue after the fifth year.
Most of the equipment to be procured after the fifth year would be replace-
ments.
4.04      The main Project components are:
(a) Roads. Construction and maintenance of some 165 miles
of access roads and 1,800 miles of feeder roads.
(b) Logging. Equipment for logging and skid-tracks, including
spares for existing equipment.
(c) Transport. Loading/unloading equipment, trucks for road
haulage, and tugs for river transportation of log rafts,
including spares for existing equipment.
(d) Administration. Buildings for Project headquarters at
Prome, a central store and a central workshop conveniently
situated in the Project area; supervision vehicles; work-
shop machinery; research materials; and office equipment.



-7 -
(e) Forest Department. Inspection vehicles and trucks for
improved mobility and control of forest operations.
(f) Sawmills. Minor rehabilitation of selected sawmills in the
Project area.
(g) Technical Assistance. Training overseas of key TC personnel
and provision of five specialists (workshop engineer,
extraction engineer, road engineer, management accountant
and sawmill specialist).
(h) Feasibility Studies. Study future development projects
in the forestry sector.
B. Detailed Features
Road Construction
4.05      Lack of good roads in Burma has long hampered timber extraction
operations and prevented full utilization of logging equipment. Because of
this inadequacy, the Project includes an extensive road construction and
maintenance program to provide the necessary extraction routes for rapid
log transport.
4.06      The main access roads would be constructed to a sufficiently high
standard of alignment, with a gravel surface, to permit efficient operation
of logging trucks with loads of up to 25 tons. As most of the transport on
feeder roads would take place during the dry season, major bridge crossings
over small rivers are not required. The roads would, however, be provided
with adequate permanent culverts and short span bridges to ensure proper
drainage. Details of the proposed roads program are in Annex 6.
4.07      Feeder roads which are widely dispersed throughout the Project
area do not justify the increased cost of construction to high standards.
These earth roads could be constructed only during the dry spells. The new
construction of 165 miles of higher standard gravel access roads and upgrading
270 miles of similar roads would be spread over five years and lie in
scattered locations in the Project area. As there are no private contracLors
in Burma the works would be carried out by TC by force account.
4.08      At present, TC restricts itself to building short mileages of
feeder roads required for extraction operations. Practically all other
road work is performed by the Construction Corporation (CC). By special
arrangement CC maintains some District and TC roads in addition to those
in its own jurisdiction. CC occasionally builds new roads but emphasis is
given to maintaining and upgrading the main highway systems, and consequently
other roads are neglected. Based on discussions with both TC and CC, it is
proposed that TC (through the Project Unit) should undertake its own road
construction and maintenance. Assurances were obtained from GOB that all



- 8 -
new roads required for the Project would be constructed by PU and that
satisfactory arrangements would be made in regard to upgrading and maintaining
roads already in CC's custodianship.
Logging and Transport
4.09      T-aditionally timber extraction in Burma has been a combination of
human and animal (elephant and buffalo) power. Log transportation was by
river. Mechanized logging was introduced in 1955. Timber extraction is
presently restricted to about 110 days a year due to bad weather and other
constraints (Annex 2, para 19). Removal of the bottlenecks through the
proposed investments would permit spreading the logging period from 110 to
250 days a year (Annex 7, para 10). Animal power would still be used for
prebunching of logs. Skidding to roadside would be done by mobile skidders.
Logs would be trucked to sawmills or to the Irrawaddy river for floating to
Rangoon. Construction of roads would make it possible to reduce the log
transit period from three/four years to about one year, and eliminate the
upstream log losses. 1/
4.10      The Project costs provide for importing spares to rehabilitate
extraction equipment existing in the Project area. Additional new equipment
requirements, phased according to the production targets, and replacement
of existing equipment include machinery for opening skid tracks; skidders,
saws; trucks; loading and unloading equipment; and towing launches (details
in Annex 7). The provision for rehabilitation spares would enable significant
benefits to be obtained from the machinery available in the Project area.
The use of such rehabilitated equipment would also avoid the need for unneces-
sary bunching of field equipment procurement in Project Year 1, and in turn
obviate the need to replace enbloc all new equipment in say year 6. 2/ A
gradual replacement of equipment would have the advantage of getting the field
staff and operators systematically trained in sound workshop, repairs, main-
tenance and machine utilization methods (para 4.13). This would also have
a demonstration effect for areas in the rest of Burma and postpone the need
for heavy foreign exchange expenditure on new and costly equipment in those
areas.
Workshop and Administration Facilities
4.11      Given the input of mechanical equipment into the Project for
extraction and road construction operations, efficient workshop facilities
are vital. As the Agency workshop capacity is inadequate to cope with
Project requirements, a central workshop for the Project would be established
at Prome close to Project Headquarters. Agency workshops at Pakkoku, Thayet,
Prome, Zigon and Tharrawaddy would take care of the equipment located in
these areas. Major reconstruction would be done in TC's Base Workshop at
1/ Upstream log losses now amount to about 15% to 20% of river input.
2/   Assuming an effective life of five years.



- 9 -
Pyinmana 1/ outside the Project Area. A provision of US$333,000 has been
included in Project costs for the central workshop equipment, and for improve-
ments to Agency workshop facilities and equipment. The workshops would be
supplied with vehicles (including a lowbed truck for equipment transportation,
fuel tankers and trailers, and water tankers) for undertaking servicing
assignments in the field. Provision has also been made for Headquarters'
office, a central workshop and stores building, supervisory vehicles, office
machinery and materials for research and experiments.
Sawmilling
4.12      Burma's sawmilling industry is discussed in Annex 8. The CP mission
did not recommend any immediate capital investments on the grounds that the
Okkyin mill 2/ in Rangoon would be capable of handling the entire teak output
from the Proj ect area, and that selection of sawmills suitable for improve-
ments, or planning for construction of new mills entails time consuming
feasibility studies. Funds have been provided for such studies for future
development (para 4.16 and Annex 10). Funds have also been included for
Project area sawmills to ensure that adequate milling facilities would be
available to handle the increased non-teak hardwood production. An immediate
input into sawmilling operations is necessary to increase existing capacities.
Arrangements would be made to train four sawmill managers in overseas factories
under the supervision of a sawmill specialist (para 4.14). On return to Burma,
this team would survey individual mills in the Project area and decide on the
action necessary to improve efficiency and productivity (Annex 8, paras 6
to 11). An assurance relating to the appointment of the sawmill specialist
was obtained from GOB.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.13      Of the five internationally recruited specialists, four (road
engineer, extraction engineer, workshop engineer, and management accountant)
would be resident in Prome. They would report to the Project Director and
have operational and training responsibilities for the duration of their
contracts. They would also work as a team to advise the Project Director in
Project planning and execution; annual budget preparation; Project procure-
ment; formulating and implementing staff training programs - overseas and
on-the-job, and introducing improved management methods and techniques.
Detailed TOR are in Annex 9. Employment of the extraction engineer and
the roads engineer is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
1/   Being constructed by TC with CIDA assistance.
2/   A new sawmill being constructed by TC with USAID assistance which
would have an input capacity of 150,000 LT.



- 10 -
4.14      The sawmill expert on the other hand would be a visiting specialist
supervising the training and activities of the four selected sawmill managers.
He would work in close collaboration with the TC Milling General Manager and
be responsible to the Managing Director (see Annex 8 for TOR). Funds have
been provided in the Project for short overseas tours and training of the
Project Director, Deputy Director, six timber extraction engineers, three
workshop engineers (all from the PU), four TC sawmill managers, and local
counterparts for feasibility studies (para 4.16). Tables 5 and 6 in Annex 11
show cost details of overseas training.
Forest Department
4.15      The Project includes inspection vehicles and trucks presently
lacking in the Project area. This would ensure immediate and active
participation in Project activities. It would also improve greatly FD's
staff mobility and enable the enforcement of sound forest management,
silvicultural and extraction practices that are essential for the conservation
and improvement of the raw material base (Annex 2, para 22).
FeasibilitX Stucies
4.16      The Project operations would be restricted to timber extraction
in five of TC's thirty-five Extraction Agencies (Annex 2X, paras 20 and 21).
However, the proposed Project is the first stage in a program to increase the
rate of development of Burma's total forestry sector and funds are provided
in the Credit for detailed and coordinated country-wide studies of forestry
and forest based industries to be undertaken as soon as practicable after
the Credit becomes effective. These studies are required, firstly to determine
the steps necessary to vitalize the extraction operations, existing sawmills
and plywood factories, and secondly to assess the future role wood-based
panel industries (plywood, veneer, particle board and fiberboard) and
the pulp and paper industry might play in the country's industrial develop-
ment. Provision has been made for the cost of training overseas of Burmese
nationals before the feasibility studies commence to enhance their contri-
bution as counterparts. Description of these studies and TOR are in Annex 10.
Details of costs are given in Annex 11, Table 6. The TOR for these studies
and a short list of prospective consultants were agreed with GOB. To ensure
proper coordination of all future development projects in the forestry sector,
an assurance was obtained from GOB that during the period of the feasibility
studies IDA would be informed before any new investments in the forestry
sector in excess of US$1.0 M are made. GOB would form a steering committee
comprising at least one qualified senior officer each from the Ministry of
Planning and Finance (MPF), Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, Forest
Department (FD), Pulp and Paper Corporation (PPC), TC and Construction
Corporation. This committee would liaise with GOB, IDA and the Consultants,
as necessary, throughout the duration of the studies. GOB's assurance was
obtained that such a committee with composition and functions satisfactory to
IDA would be established.



- 11 -
C. Environmental Impact
4.17      The Project area forests would be managed on a selection felling
basis which ensures minimum disturbance to the natural forest cover. Even
though extraction would be intensified, forestry operations would be con-
ducted according to sound silvicultural and cutting practices. Forest
management would be based on the principle of sustained yield to ensure
that, through regulation of AAC, timber supplies would not be diminished.
Inspection vehicles provided in the Project would enable FD policing of
cutting operations, and effective fire and erosion control thereby ensuring
the environmental integrity of the forest and its wildlife. Project opera-
tions would not adversely affect game animals as the Project forest areas
do not provide a habitat well suited to the needs of the indigenous wildlife
represented in limited numbers by leopard, buffalo and wild pig. Road
specifications have been designed to minimize erosion and disturbance to
river flows. All hardwood sawmills in the Project area are relatively small
(average annual input 2300 LT), isolated units which seldom operate at night.
Noise is not a problem, so abatement measures are unnecessary. The local
population is allowed to take away timber waste, and some sawmills sell
offcuts for firewood. Hence build-up of wood waste is uncommon.
D. Cost Estimates
4.18      Total estimated five-year Project cost is K 172.1 M (US$35.8 M)
of which about US$24.0 M would be the foreign exchange component. Details of
Project cost, summarized below, are in Annex 11.



12 -
Summary of Project Costs
(Amounts in thousands)
Kyats                     US$                %
For-                     For-            Foreign
TIMBER CORPORATION (TCI  Local    eign   Total    Local   eign   Total   Exchange
Road Construction
Equipment and Spares       3,949  19,240  23,189       821   4,000   4,821       83
Civil Works               15,080    -       15,080   3,135    -       3,135      -
19,029  19,240  38,269   3,956   4,000   7,956        50
Timber Extraction
New Equipment and Spares  9,921  40,404  50,325   2,062   8,400  10,462          80
Rehabilitation of
Existing Equipment         898   2,645   3,543       187     550      737      75
10,819  43,049  53,868   2,249   8,950  11,199        80
Workshop & Administration
Buildings                    418    -          418      87    -          87      -
Vehicles                      979   2,756   3,735      204      573     777      74
Office Equipment               50     190      240      10       40      50      80
Research Materials             50     190      240      10       40      50      80
Workshop                      371   1,429   1,800       77      297     374      79
1,868   4,565   6,433      388      950   1,338      71
Sawmills Rehabilitation       655   2,410   3,065      137      500     637      79
Technical Assistance and
Training
Managers' Training (Mills)  -          58       58    -          12      12    100
Supervising Specialist
(Mills)                  43     400      443       9       83      92      90
Resident Specialists (PU)   800   4,218   5,018        167      877   1,044      84
Training Abroad (PU)          -       137      137    -          28      28    100
843   4,813   5,656      176   1,000   1,176       85
Sub-total - TC       33,214  74,077 107,291   6,906  15,400  22,306        69
GOVERNMENT (GOB)
Forest Department            397   1,203   1,600        82      250     332      75
Feasibility Studies        1,735   4,810   6,545       360   1,000   1,360       73
Sub-total - GOB       2,132   6,013   8,145      442   1,250   1,692       74
Total TC and GOB    35,346  80,090 115,436   7,348  16,650  23,998         69
Physical Contingencies    2,595   3,930   6,525        540     817   1,357       60
Price Contingencies       18,785  31,365 _50,150   3.907   6,533  10,440         63
Total Costs          56,726 115,385 172,111  11,795  24,000  35s795        67



- 13 -
4.19      Estimates are related to recent experience in Burma and based on
findings during appraisal. Unit prices used for machinery and equipment
were those current in November 1973. Physical contingencies have been added
at 5% to capital costs, except for road civil works where 10% was used.
Price contingencies totalling 43% have been included, representing price
increases compounded annually on all foreign and local cost components. These
are based on projected inflation rates 1/ in Burma and countries supplying
equipment and services over the five year Project period.
E. Financing, Procurement and Disbursement
Financing
4.20      The following Project five year financing plan is based on IDA
providing the equivalent of US$24.0 M for all foreign costs, with PU
(legally TC) providing the local costs out of self-generated funds (para
6.06). Local costs relating to FD items and feasibility studies would be
met by GOB.
Kyats Million
IDA    TC     GOB       Total
Project Unit (TC)                 108.6  54.0      -        162.6
Forest Department
& Feasibility Studies             6.8   -       2.7        9.5
(GOB)                             _
Kyats (M)              115.4  54.0    2.7        172.1
US Dollars (M)          24.0  11.2    0.6         35.8
4.21      GOB would onlend to TC the IDA Credit for the PU investments
under a subsidiary loan agreement for a period of 15 years, including a
period of five years grace, at 7-1/4% per year. Signature of this agree-
ment is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
4.22      Foreign exchange provided through the IDA Credit would meet the
capital needs of PU during the first five years. Additional foreign exchange
would be needed for equipment replacements after year five, and also for
1/   Annual rates varying from 7% to 18% (Annex 13, page 1, Note 9).



- 14 -
importation of spares for routine maintenance and repairs. Presently GOB
makes foreign exchange available to state commercial enterprises, through
a Foreign Exchange Committee (FEC), annually for capital items, and
quarterly for spares. Equipment imports have also to be individually
approved by an Equipment Control Committee (ECC). GOB has given an under-
taking that all imports financed out of IDA Credit would be exempted from
FEC and ECC control procedures. To ensure that the necessary foreign exchange
would be available to PU an assurance was obtained from GOB to make timely
allocations for both equipment replacements and spares.
Procurement -/
4.23      For reasons explained in para 4.07 road construction work would not
be suitable for international competitive bidding. TC would carry out the
Project road works using imported machinery to be provided under the Credit.
Procurement of road construction machinery (US$4.8 M), extraction and workshop
equipment (US$10.8 M), and vehicles (US$1.1 M) would be by international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Office equipment and
research supplies (US$0.1 M) comprise items of small value and would be
purchased following Government tender procedures. As there are no local firms
in Burma representing foreign suppliers quotations would be obtained directly
from overseas manufacturers. As spare parts for rehabilitation of existing
extraction equipment (US$0.8 M) and sawmills (US$0.6 M) are specific by make
and model, international competitive bidding procedures are not appropriate.
These items would be procured directly from the manufacturers of the relevant
equipment or their agents. Technical specialists and consultants for feasi-
bility studies would be engaged following IDA guidelines for selection of
consultants. Assurances were obtained from the GOB that (a) technical
specifications and draft tender documents for all procurement exceeding
US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before bidding documents
are issued, (b) the Resident Specialists would assist in the preparation of
bidding documents and submit to the Project Director comments on the
evaluation of all bids, and (c) the bid evaluations for all procurement in
excess of US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA together with specialists'
comments before making the awards.
Disbursements
4.24      IDA would disburse against cif documents for imported goods.  IDA
would also pay all foreign exchange costs of expatriate staff engaged for the
Project, and of overseas training and travel costs for Burmese staff. A
disbursement schedule is at Annex 12. Any amount not used for the Project
would be cancelled.
1/   The amounts quoted are exclusive of physical and price contingencies.



- 15 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Timber Corporation
5.01      TC is legally a corporate body, intended to operate as an independent
commercial entity. However, for all practical purposes it functions as a
government department. Organization and management of TC is described in
Annex 5.
5.02      Lack of cost consciousness in State Corporations is by no means
unique to Burma. However, in Burma, this is usually coupled with a high
degree of centralized authority leading to inefficient performance. TC,
with its monopoly of the timber industry, is no exception. TC's problems
include inadequate delegation of authority; lack of motivation; and lack of
proper recognition for good performance. Budgeting and costing are not
used as management tools, inventory management is poor, management informa-
tion systems and work coordination between various departments are inadequate,
accounting work is completed too late to be of practical value, and financial
discipline is absent (Annex 5, paras 22, and 27 to 30).
5.03      Reorganization of TC into an efficient institution will require
great effort and time - too long to be effective for this urgent Project.
The formation of yet another state corporation is not considered necessary
or desirable, particularly in view of the fact that the Project would be the
first phase of a planned development of TC's entire forestry operations. It
is therefore proposed to form a special Project Unit (PU) as a separate divi-
sion of TC, vested with complete autonomy in operational matters.
B. Project Unit
5.04      The PU would be fully responsible for road development, timber
extraction and transportation within the five Extraction Agencies of the
Project area. It would also manage its own support services, eg., workshops,
procurement, inventories, banking, accounting, internal audit, personnel and
general administration. PU would however deliver its timber output to TC's
Milling and Marketing Department for ultimate disposal (para 6.05). The
improved methods tested and applied in the Unit would be applied to other
sections within the TC complex. On-the-job training programs organized by
PU should be open to key personnel in TC as well. Feasibility study
recommendations relating to management improvements (Annex 10, Appendix,
page 3), mutually agreed by GOB and IDA, should be implemented by TC on an
acceptable time-table. Suitable assurances in this regard were obtained
from GOB.
5.05      The organization proposed for the PU is given in Chart 4.  The
PU would have a Project Director appointed in consultation with IDA who will
function as chief executive of the Unit. He would be supported by a Deputy



- 16 -
Director whose concentration should be administration and related responsi-
bilities. Provision has been made for four internationally recruited spe-
cialists (para 4.13). They will be directly responsible to the Project
Director and actively participate in Project implementation (planning and
execution). A description of their duties is given in Annex 9. Assurance
regarding these appointments was obtained from GOB during negotiations.
5.06      A Project Planning Committee, comprising the Project Director,
his Deputy, the four specialists and a senior executive officer seconded
for the purpose from the FD full-time, would be formed to advise the Proj-
ect Director on Project planning and execution. The Project Director
would be entrusted with necessary powers to enable him to discharge his
responsibilities as the Chief Executive of PU. He would work within the
policy guidelines set by the Project Review Committee (para 5.13) and
report to the managing Director of TC, but otherwise have independence
in all operational matters. Appropriate assurances were obtained from GOB
in this regard.
5.07      The PU headquarters office would be in Prome, close to field
operations, to enable greater physical participation and appreciation by
senior management of day-to-day problems in Project operations. For
purposes of liaison with TC Managing Director, TC and GOB offices, PU would
establish a small office situated in Rangoon manned by one executive and
two subordinate staff members. PU would also have a central store and
a central workshop conveniently situated in the Project area.
5.08      The five PU local departmental heads (Finance and Accounts,
Internal Audit, Roads, Workshop and Timber Extraction) would be selected
by the Projects Director and most of them would probably come from TC's
existing staff. They would work under the guidance of the expatriate
specialists. An assurance was obtained from GOB that, prior to making all
PU appointments to positions at the level of departmental head and above
such level, IDA would be informed of the qualifications and experience of
the proposed appointees.
5.09      PU would have separate books of account, prepare and follow its
own annual budget, and operate separate bank accounts on lines similar to
arrangements existing for TC's Plywood and Furniture Department (Annex 5,
para 13). In all Project operations (para 5.06), PU would function inde-
pendently of TC's other operating Departments, manage its own procurement
and personnel matters including selection, placement, promotions and
transfers within the Unit. Assurances on these matters were obtained from
GOB.
C. Bank Accounts
5.10      TC operates its bank accounts with Burma's only commercial bank -
Union of Burma Bank (UBB) which regulates cash receipts and payments through
the Union Government Consolidated Fund (UGCF). TC, like most state corpo-
rations and all government departments, is required to deposit all its



- 17 -
cash collections into the UGCF (Receipts) Account and has no recourse to
funds so deposited. Funds required for TC's expenditure are met out of the
UGCF (Payments) Account within the limits prescribed in the annual national
budget. TC's cash drawings thus have no relation to its business earnings.
Funds management under this scheme lacks financial autonomy and the discipline
essential for efficient management (Annex 5, paras 21 and 22). As a step
towards financial discipline GOB has been experimenting with a Working Capital
Scheme (WCS). Under WCS, while the capital expenditure is regulated through
the annual budgets, the working capital (excess of operating expenses over
operating receipts) is controlled on a quarterly basis, and withdrawals in
excess of agreed working capital limits permitted on the payment of 3% p.a.
interest as penalty 1/ (Annex 5, para 23).
5.11      GOB is unwilling to consider granting TC or PU financial freedom
beyond what is permissible within the WCS operation. It was therefore
necessary to obtain the following assurances from GOB:
(a) TC to deposit into PU's bank account sales proceeds of
Project logs (less reasonable deductions for processing
and marketing costs) not later than three months after
the Milling and Marketing Department of TC takes delivery
of Project timber; and
(b) PU to be permitted to retain the annual depreciation
provisions for reinvestment and replacement of fixed
assets.
D. Accounting Systems and Audit
5.12      Main shortcomings in TC's accounting and financial organization
are: delayed completion of accounting records; unnecessary complication
and duplication of records; difficulty in retrieving information; budgeting
process not used as management tool; absence of costing and internal audit
functions; performance not measured against targets; and lack of effective
management information system (para 5.02 and Annex 5, paras 24 to 30). The
audit of TC's annual accounts is carried out by the Director of Commercial
Audits (DCA) of the State Audit Office. He lacks staff both in numbers
and experience.  Audits of TC are too late to be of practical value.  Audfit
scope, and consequently the reports* do not attempt to cover management
performance or the control aspects so vital to any efficient enterprise.
It is therefore proposed that the management accounting specialist would
set up the new accounting organization and procedures for PU, and the fol-
lowing assurances were obtained from GOB:
1/   Overdrafts to state commercial enterprises are normally free of
interest charge.



- 18 -
(a)  PU would establish an internal audit division; install
a cost accounting system; and devise an effective
management information system;
(b)  PU audit work and reports by DCA would cover management
aspects, in accordance with guidelines to be provided
by IDA (Annex 14);
(c)  submission to IDA of PU's draft annual accounts within
four months, and audited accounts and audit report
within six months of the close of its financial year;
(d)  submission of PU's draft annual budget to IDA, not later
than two months prior to the commencement of each financial
year, for information and comment; and
(e)  submission to IDA, within one month, copies of PU's quarterly
progress reports in a form to be mutually agreed.
E. Project Review Committee
5.13      Under the Timber Board Act, TC activities were governed by a ten-
member board of directors which ceased functioning from 1971 (Annex 5, paras
2 and 3). In the absence of such a supervisory body, it is proposed that a
Review Committee be formed to advise on PU's business policy and investment
planning; approve annual budgets and review quarterly progress reports, annual
accounts and audit reports; evaluate management performance; and for liaison
with government. The TC Managing Director and the Project Director would be
two of the six members of this Committee. MPF, MAF, FD, and CC would each
have a representive. The representative from MPF would be the Chairman of
the Review Committee. Appropriate assurances were obtained from GOB in
this regard.
VI. PRODUCTION MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      The AAC of teak in the Project area is estimated at 65,000 LT. 1/
In addition, the backlog of ripe girdled teak estimated at a total of
250,000 LT would be removed by Project year eight (FY82). The annual
1/   This figure is based on existing management plans, however, it may
increase with intensified silviculture, shorter rotation, and lower
girth limit proposals to be investigated during project implementation.



- 19 -
non-teak hardwood extraction rate would almost treble from the FY73 level of
50,000 LT to 143,000 LT by FY84. 1/ The annual combined extraction (teak
and non-teak) capacity in the Project area would thus be gradually increased
from the present level of 135,000 LT to 208,000 LT by FY84. 2/ (Details
are in Annex 7, Tables 4 and 5.)
6.02      After making allowances for log losses (transport loss and log-ends
waste), the net volume of Project production during the first ten-year period
would be about 780,000 LT of teak and some 855,000 LT of non-teak hardwood. 3/
On average, 46% of the Project teak output would be exported in log form.
About 50% of the 2 star class and 100% of the better grades of teak are
assumed to be available for export. The remaining 54% of teak production
would be converted in the TC sawmills. Some 80% of the teak sawnwood would
be for the export markets and the balance sold for domestic consumption.
About 20% of non-teak hardwoods would be exported in log form. The remaining
80% of non-teak hardwood production is assumed to be wholly for domestic
consumption.
B. Marketing and Prices
6.03      TC has a long established marketing system capable of handling
the increased production from the Project area. World demand outlook for
teak and other hardwoods is strong. Burma enjoys a near monopolistic posi-
tion in the world teak market. World market trends and market prospects
for Burma's timber production, including the Project output, are described
in Annex 15 and are in line with the projections contained in Economic Staff
Working Paper No. 136 of 10/27/72, "Tropical Hardwood Trade in the Asia-
Pacific Region - Issues and Opportunities". About two-thirds of the log (teak
and non-teak) export would go to Burma's traditional markets of West Germany,
Denmark, Singapore and Japan, and some 70% of the teak conversions would be
absorbed by Denmark, Hong Kong, Singapore and Middle East. Non-teak hardwood
production depends heavily on the domestic market. Although export markets
could take up all the better grades of non-teak, the domestic market, can
easily absorb Burma's entire non-teak hardwood production planned by TC for
the coming decade.
6.04       Between 1968 and 1972, export prices of teak increased by rates
ranging from 20 to 40% for various qualities of logs and conversions. Teak
1/   MC of non-teak hardwoods in Project area is estimated at about 215,000
LT (Annex 3).
2/   All volumes quoted in this paragraph are "gross" before deduction of
transport and log-end losses.
3/   Operations in the Project area would continue at the level of 208,000
LT or more from year ten onward. However, taking a conservative
approach all projections in this report have been limited to a ten-
year period.



- 20 -
prices current in October 1973 show an average increase of more than 100%
over 1968 for most qualities. Domestic prices both of teak and non-teak
sawnwood however were not increased following the world price upsurge in
recent years. Unit prices used for financial projections and economic
analysis are given in Annex 15, Table 6. Taking a conservative approach,
Project sales have been priced at the FY73 prices (averaging K 1,725/LT for
teak and K 250/LT for other hardwoods) which are substantially lower than
the prices current in October 1973 1/ (Annex 15, paras 17-19).
6.05      TC's Milling and Marketing Department would sell the Project
timber either in log form or as sawnwood along with TC's other production.
The sales proceeds of PU's output would be deposited by TC into PU's bank
account subject to a reasonable deduction for processing and marketing costs
(Annex 15, Table 6, Note 3). An assurance has been obtained from GOB for
these marketing arrangements.
C. Financial Projections
6.06      Provision of new equipment has been phased in relation to extraction
equipment available in the Project area. Existing equipment has been assumed
capable of producing the current level of output with its capacity declining
by 25% cumulatively from Project year two, reaching nil production in year
five (FY79). Computations of incremental timber output and revenue are in
Annex 13, Tables 2 and 3. Financial forecasts are made for a ten-year period.
Project capital costs are in Annex 11, Table 1 and operating costs appear
in Annex 13, Table 1. Based on these assumptions and those in Annex 13, pages
1 and 2, the financial rate of return (ROR(F)) is 76%. 2/ This high ROR(F) is
only to be expected in view of the valuable raw materials represented by the
forest reserves which have no establishment and incremental maintenance costs.
6.07      The PU cash flow projections are shown in Annex 13, Table 5.  The
financing arrangements described in paras 4.21 and 4.22 would enable PU to
meet, out of self-generated funds, all local currency capital costs. In
view of the assumed six months time lag between extraction of timber and
receipt of sales proceeds PU may be obliged to look to UBB for an overdraft
facility of about K 9.0 M in FY75, repayable within twelve months and a
short-term loan for local currency capital costs of about K 3.5 M. Assur-
ances were obtained from GOB that funds would be made available to PU for its
planned investments and that temporary overdraft facilities would be provided
by Union Bank to cover working capital requirements.
6.08      During the five-year grace period, PU would be in a position to meet
all its loan interest commitments out of operating surpluses. Loan principal
1/   October 1973 export prices were, on an average, 20% higher than prices
realized by TC during the FY73 ended September 1973.
2/   ROR(F) would be 33% after charging Corporation Tax at 50% on profits.



- 21 -
repayments would commence in FY80. An annuity of K 15.2 M (US$3.2)
would permit the complete liquidation of the IDA Credit onlending by FY89.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Impact
Principal Benefits
7.01      The proposed investment would increase the annual rate of timber
extraction in the Project area from the current level of 125,000 LT to more
than 200,000 LT over ten years. The increased production would in turn
result in net incremental foreign exchange earnings of about US$175 M and
increase GOB's budgetary revenue by about K 550 M (US$114 M) in income tax,
sales tax, royalties, import duties and interest.
7.02      Increased production of non-teak hardwoods would help to meet
the unsatisfied local consumption needs for housing. The Project would
provide additional employment for about 2,000 persons in the Project area.
Other Benefits
7.03      New projects would be generated, through feasibility studies,
for the planned development of Burma's forest based industries capable of
generating foreign exchange earnings. Additional Project benefits are
discussed in Annex 16.
B. Economic Rate of Return
7.04      The economic rate of return ROR(E) calculations are based on a
ten year stream of costs and benefits. In computing ROR(E) only readily
quantifiable elements have been considered.
Costs
7.05      Project costs are derived from Annex 11, Table 1 (capital costs),
and Annex 13, Table 1 (operating costs). The following items have been
excluded:
(a)  timber royalties payable to GOB;
(b)  sales tax on timber sales;
(c)  import duties;



- 22 -
(d) price contingencies; and
(e) FD and Feasibility Studies costs.
Benefits
7.06      Project production figures are taken from Annex 7, Tables 1 to 4,
and adjusted _vr log losses - 3% in river transportation and 6% in log-end
trimming. Sales revenue has been computed at FY73 price levels (Annex 15,
Table 6) which should be considered conservative (see para 6.04). The
timber production in the Project area in FY74 is estimated to be 85,000 LT
teak and 58,000 LT other hardwoods (Annex 7, para 4). This level of output,
subject to log loss deductions of 15% for teak and 6% for other hardwoods, 1/
has been deemed to be the production in a 'without project' situation. TC's
past five years' extraction operations show an average profit (before charging
royalty payments) of K 265/LT for teak and K 16/LT for other hardwoods Annex
16, Table 1). Without project benefits calculated on this basis, amounting
to K 20 M per year have been deducted from Project revenue annually in
arriving at the incremental Project benefits. No opportunity cost has been
placed on the Project area land because it is not considered suitable for
livestock or other forms of agriculture development and there are other exten-
sive tracts of unused Unreserved forest land better suited for such development.
7.07      Foreign exchange value of Kyats (K 4.81 to US$1.00) and labor
costs (K 125-150 per month) 2/ have been taken at prevailing rates.
Rate of Return
7.08      Based on the foregoing assumptions, the ROR(E) is estimated to
be more than 100% (Annex 16, Table 2). The rate of return is high, despite
the conservative assumptions used in the calculations. However, precise
quantification of the rate of return from investments in a project of this
nature cannot be very meaningful. Clearly, the Project would, at limited
cost, remove bottlenecks which hitherto prevented the systematic exploitation
of a very valuable natural resource. Thus, there is little doubt about the
unusual economic attractiveness of Project investments.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.09      More than 75% of the Project benefits represent export earnings
which have been valued at the official rate of exchange - K 4.81 to the
US Dollar. A more realistic rate could be about K 10.00 to US$1.00. If
the foreign exchange elements in both costs and benefits were shadow priced
at the latter rate, the ROR(E) would increase.
1/   Past average level of losses.
2/   Rates for unskilled labor excluding benefits in kind.



- 23 -
7.10      As an alternative to the Project it is conceivable that concessions
could be granted to international enterprises for a royalty payable in for-
eign exchang5. For such cqncessions, Thailand is known to collect stumpage
at US$6.0i/m for teak and'US$3.00/m for other hardwoods, and Indonesia at
US$6.00/m for all timber. In the context of Burma's policieS such an
alternative is not a practical option. However, if US$6.00/m (K 52/LT)
were taken as the opportunity cost of Project area timber, and deducted from
project benefits, and costs assumed to increase by 40% accompanied by a drop
of 40% in timber prices, ROR(E) would be about 33%. The Project is therefore
economically attractive even under the most adverse conditions.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances were obtained from the Government on the following
major points:
(a)  employment of specialists (extraction engineer, roads engineer,
workshop engineer, management accountant and sawmill specialist
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (paras 4.12, 4.13
and 5.05);
(b)  engagement of consultants to carry out feasibility studies on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.16);
(c)  PU to be permitted to retain and reinvest self-generated
funds including depreciation funds (paras 4.20, 5.10 and 6.07);
(d)  establishment of PU as a division independent of TC's
existing operating departments with financial and operational
autonomy, and the appointment of qualified and experienced
Project Director, Deputy Director and five department heads
(paras 5.03, 5.08 and 5.09); and
(e)  establishment of a Project Implementation Committee and a
Project Review Committee with their composition and functions
satisfactory to IDA (paras 5.06 and 5.13).
8.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the following have been
agreed as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit:
(a)  employment of the extraction engineer and the roads engineer
(para 4.13);
(b)  execution and delivery of GOB's Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with TC (para 4.21);



- 24 -
(c) establishment of PU and the appointment of the Project
Director (para 5.06); and
(d)  establishment of the Project Review Committee (para 5.13).
8.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed Project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$24.0 M to the Government of the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma.



ANNLX 1
Page 1
BURNA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Glossary
advance growth             ; abundant, multi-species natural regeneration
found in forests prior to felling; once the
canopy is opened they grow quickly and develop
into trees
afforestation              : the planting of trees in unforested areas
annual allowable cut
(AAC)                      the annual amount of wood which may be
harvested from a certain area on the basis of
maximum sustained yields in perpetuity
black stripe teak             trees containing black stains which give
attractive designs when logs are sawn, sliced
or peeled
compartment                   the basic unit of forest management in a forest
reserve permanently demarcated on the ground
coupe                      : the basic unit of forest management in an
unreserved forest
depot                      : assembly area for logs e.g. "all-weather depot"
area for assemibly logs during the dry season
for onward transit during the wet season
"rafting depot" - riLver area for assembling log
rafts
felling cycle                 the desirable interval between successive
felling operations on the same area
felling series             : a managem,enit unit with a separate calculation
of the yield formed to control felling and
regeneration
forest circle              : an administrative unit made up of forest
dLvisions an., headed bv a DLrector or Conserva-
tor of Forests
gbh                        : girth at hreast helght (41'6")



ANNEX 1
Page 2
girdling                   : complete ring barkLng of teak which kills the
standing tree, thereby reducin.g the moisture
content and allowing the logs to be floated
down river and sold after milling without dry
kilni treatment (see ripe girdlings)
girth                         circumference of a tree or log (see gbh)
green                         freshly cut, undried log of teak or hardwood
-rowialm stocC'               current standing volume
hardwoods                     refers to all mnarketable hardwoods othier tihan
teak
improverment fellings         removal or destruction of less valuable grow.th
in a crop in the interests of better growtl
of the more valuable individuals
mean annual increi-ent
(MAT)                     :   AI = Ya
R
where:  Ya is the total yield (inlcluding
thinnings) at rotation age per unit area
R is the rotation age in years
raft                          quantity of logs assembled for towing in water
assisted, where necessary, by means of flotation
such as bamboo or special rafting boats
reforestation                 the replacement of trees in cut-over forest areas
reserved forest               forests gazetted under the Forest Act which
are intended to remain in perpetuity as
production or protection areas
ripe girdlings                teak trees whlich have been girdled for over
three years
rotation:  the period of years required to establish and
grow timber crops to a specified marketable size
sawnwood                      cut wood; lumber
silviculture                  the art and science of cultivating forest crops
skiddin-                      movement of logs from stump to loading point



ANNEX 1
Page 3
stand                     : a group of trees
taungya                      a system of controlled cultivation for helping
to establish naturally regenerated, artificial
plantations or a combination of both
teak                         refers specifically to one species; Tectona
grandis
unreserved forest         : gazetted forested areas which can be alienated
for other uses such as settlement
upripe girdlings          : teak trees which have been girdled less than
three years
working circle            : area (forming the whole or part of a working
plan area) organized with a particular object
using one silvicultural system and set of
working prescriptions
working plan                 a written scheme of management aiming at the
continuity of policy controlling the treatment
of a forest






ANNEX 2
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Place of Project in the Development of Burma's
Forestry Sector
Introduction
This Annex:
-    reviews the present status of Burma's forest and forest
industries sector;
-    discusses constraints to development;
-    presents the rationale for starting with a logging and
extraction project restricted to a particular geographic
area; and,
-    indicates why Forest Department participation, plus
feasibility studies, are necessary Project components.
Background
The Resource Base
1.        Burma controls some 75%-/ of the world's remaining teak resources
and possesses the second largest area of tropical forests in South East
Asia.
1/   Thailand, India and Indonesia account for most of the balance.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Area of Forest Land Forest Land as a percen-
Million Acres      tage of Total Land Area
Indonesia                                296                       63
Burma                                     95                       57
Papua and New Guinea                      89                       78
Thailand                                  69                       67
Mlalaysia                                 59                       67
Cambodia                                  32                       73
Philippines                               30                       40
2.        The bulk of Burma's teak and marketable hardwoods occur in
tropical mixed deciduous forests that make up over 54% of the total
forested area; marketable hardwoods also grow in tropical evergreen and
Indaing 1/ forests. Burma's forest classification by ecological types
is shown in Table 1 and a list of marketable hardwoods (excluding teak)
appears in Table 2.
3.        Legally the forests are designated as either Reserved (23.8
mallion acres) or Unreserved 71.5 million acres). Reserved forest,
gazetted under the Forest Act, are managed by the Forest Department
(FD) and intended to remain in perpetuity as either production or protec-
tive units, or both. Unreserved forest on the other hand, although
managed by the FD for similar purposes as Reserved forest, can be
alienated for other uses such as agricultural settlement. The process
of reservation continues; over the last five years about 1.7 million
acres have been added. However, additions are offset to a certain extent
by alienation in Unreserved areas and encroachment in both categories of
forest.
4.        Forestry is an old established activity in Burma because merchants
of the 19th Century were quick to realize that teak is an excellent timber
for furniture, paneling, veneer, flooring, mouldings and marine use. In
1856 a Superintendent of Forests, was appointed to control the indiscriminate
exploitation of teak forests and introduce yield regulation. The follow-
ing year a system of forest management known as the "Brandis Selection
System" was introduced, and, with modifications, forms the basis of today's
method of regulating yield in both the teak and hardwood forests.
5.        The forest estate is divided into Forestry Divisions each
with a ten-year plan of management or "Working Plan". Divisions are
divided into working circles and then into felling series. The felling
series, made up of compartments or coupes, is the basic unit of yield
regulation. In theory, the entire forests in a felling series are
1/   Almost pure Dipterocarpus tuberculatus forest.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
harvested on a 30-year felling cycle; that is annually 1/30th of the
series is logged, and will not be harvested again for 30 years. In
practice, this has seldom been possible due to inaccessibility, insurgent
activities, or lack of logging and extraction equipment.
6.        At time of logging, only trees above a specified girth limit
at breast height (usually 6'6" to 7'6" for teak and between 6' and 8' for
other hardwoods) are removed. These limits were chosen before the
turn of the century to fit in with the optimum size of log required by
the export market and sawmills at that time. Although no proposals are
made in this Project to reduce the limit, an investigation would be
made during Project implementation to determine if the gbli could be
dropped to say 6'6" for all teak. This would increase the AAC, reduce
the rotation (presently between 120 and 150 years) and may provide an
acceptable log for sawing or peeling. However, it would not be
advisable to introduce a change until TC is able to cope with the
country's present annual allowable cut (MAC).
7.        During the teak girdling operations - done by FD staff - all teak
trees 4' gbh and above are measured, marked on a four inch to the mile map,
and recorded by girth classes. Thus, almost a hundred percent enumeration
of the country's teak trees is made which permits an accurate assessment of
future yields. It takes an average of 30 years for trees in the 6'6" to
7'5" gbh class to exceed the 7'6" gbh limit; hence the reason for a 30-year
felling cycle.
8.        Burma's AAC is presently 346,000 LT for teak arid about 2 million
LT for merchantable hardwoods. The exploitable volume per unit area in
Reserved forest of about 0.5 LT/ac for teak and 2.8 LT/ac for hardwoods seems
low when compared with the volume which is being taken from other tropical
forests in South East Asia (Malaysia-9 LT/ac, Indonesia-11 LT/ac). But they
are not strictly comparable as teak logs sell for an average of K 2130 IT
(US$245/m3(r) ub) FOB or about six tim,es the price of other hardwoodls in
South East Asia; furthermore, the enforcemenit of girth limit rules is far
stricter in Burma than it is outside. Table 3 contains details of Burma's
AAC for teak and hardwoods.
9.        Data of log arrivals at depots or mills from 1967 to 1971 show, hio.
the forests are presently being under-utilized:



ANNX 2
Pate 4
Year                            Teak                           Hardwoods
------'000 LT------------------
1966-67                          243                               907
1967-68                          296                                907
1968-69                          301                               910
1969-70                          301                               912
1970-71                          358 /a                            921
Average                     300                               911
AAC                         346                                2 million
Ia  1ligh figure due to concentration of activities in the more easily
accessible teak forests.
This is serious for teak because the FD has continued to girdle yield
trees (those over 7'6" gbh) according to Working Plan prescriptions hoping
L2hat the TC would be able to catch up with its extraction operations:
it hasn't, and the result is a backlog of nearly 700,000 standing ripe
girdled trees - equivalent to 1.4 million LT - that are no longer putting
on increment. Table 4 contains a summary of teak and hardwood log
production since 1940 and Table 5 contains details of trees which were
girdled between 1949 and 1970. Excluded are some 100,000 trees girdled
before 1949 which are unmarketable. If the backlog could be cleared, in
say, ten years, teaks AAC for that period would increase to some 485,000 LT
or to about the pre-World War II level.
10.       The methods of regenerating selectively felled forest depends
on the type of forest being exploited. For instance, the tropical moist
mixed deciduous forest, which contains the bulk of the country's best
quality teak, is regenerated using the taungya system (natural or planta-
tion depending on the abundance of advanced growth). In the more
extensive, remote areas, selective cutting is followed by improvement
fellings to favor the remaining crop even though - to achieve successful
establishment - it usually costs more than the taungya system. Sufficient
regeneration normally exists in the tropical !ry mixed deciduous forests
for establishing a second crop following selection felling without
silvicultural treatment; this also applies to the tropical evergreen
and Indaing forests.
11.       The FD is currently planting about 6,500 acres annually (3,000 of
teak and 3,500 of pyinkado, Eucalyptus camaldulensis and others) and
carrying out silvicultural operations over some 95,000 acres annually
to induce or assist regeneration and establishment. Table 6 contains
details of the country's planting and silvicultural operations over the
past five years.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.       The Burmese foresters are proud of having been the first organized
forest service in the British Commonwealth and the oldest outside Europe.
They have a strong tradition, are dedicated to their profession and
in spite of financial stringencies and insufficient support at Ministerial
level, have done a fine job in preserving one of South East Asia's
most valuable forest estates.
Forest Industries
13.       Although commercial extraction of teak began early in the 19th
Century, it wasn't until 1860 that pressure increased to allow private
enterprise to export teak on a more extensive scale. Bombay-Burma
Trading Company had been operating for some years, and to avoid a monopoly,
four other European firms (Steel Bros., MacGregors, Foucars and Findlays)
were given 15-year leases with a renewal clause for various teak forests
all over the country. These companies continued producing teak logs and
sawn lumber for the export markets until World War II. During the Japanese
occupation from 1942 to 1945, an estimated 700,000 logs were extracted
by the Nippon Burma Timber Union. After reoccupation the Timber Project
Board put the industry back on its feet and when Independence was
declared in 1943, the sole responsibility for teak extraction and milling
was given to the newly formed State Timber Board (STB); in 1963 it also
became the sole agency for extracting and milling hardwoods.
14.       The STB, now named Timber Corporation (TC), inherited many
pre-war vintage sawmills most of which were over 50 years old and
operating on even older marine steam engines. Between 1969 and 1973
two teak mills and 27 hardwood mills closed due to old age and obsolete
equipment.
15.       The TC also operates 3 plywood mills capable of producing
25,000 m3 on a two shift basis. Actual production in 1970/71 was about
11,600 m3 of poor quality plywood due to inadequate drying facilities,
mixed machinery, poor quality control and one shift operations.
16.       The paper industry, by comparison, is in its infancy.  The
recently formed Pulp and Paper Corporation (PPC) operate a 12,000 TPA,
bamboo based, bleached sulphate mill at Sittang which started producing
printing and writing papers in 1972: it also runs a five TPD paperboard
mill in Rangoon using waste paper. By 1976, the proposed mill at Ela is
expected to produce some 40,000 TPA of printing and writint papers from a
mixture of bagasse, bamboo and possibly hardwoods. Burma's most promising
source of raw material for expanding its pulp and paper industry is the
estimated 2 million acres of accessable bamboo in tl-he Arakan and Tenasserin
regions.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Markets
17.       Burma currently supplies about 70% of the world's teak log
requirements and 75% of sawn lumber needs; the balance is supplied
principally by Thailand and Indonesia. Export prospects in the future
are excellent (See Annex 15) because world demand is unsatisfied, Burma
grows the highest quality teak and has more teak forests than her
competitors.
Constraints to Development
18.       It is clear that Burma's forestry and forest industries sector
can contribute significantly more to the country's development and
foreign exchange earnings than it does at present - she has a unique
sustainable resource base, and a strong demand exists overseas for
teak and selected tropical hardwoods. But demand is not being satisfied
because the TC is unable to extract, mill or export at the level required.
19.       The TC's constraints are reviewed briefly below:
(a) fEuipmnent
Of some 1,100 items of extraction, road construction and
transportation equipment, nearly 60% are described bv the
TC as in "fair or poor" condition, and 34% are five years
old or older (See Annex 7). Furthermore, 50% of the
extraction equipment is usually out of action at any one
time due to age, poor operation and maintenance and the
lack of appropriate spares. Much of the sawmilling
equipment is in need of rehabilitation or replacement.
(b) Accessibility
Accessibility to many of the country's teak bearing forests
has been seriously curtailed since 1948 because of insurgent
activities and lack of roads. This forced the TC to operate
in forests close to the main access roads and rivers,
resulting in heavy over-exploitation of the adjacent
forests. Also as operations move further away from suitable
floating rivers and the demand for green teak and hardwoods -
neither of which float without support - increases, there
will be increasing need for expanding the road system.
(c) Management
Management throughout the TC's operations is poor;
accountability for work performance and financial control
is rudimentary; and there is a pressing need for the



ANNEX 2
Page 7
introduction of modern, operational techniques in all
phases of TC's activities (See Ann-x 5). Competent
technical staff with overseas training do exist but it is
difficult for them to introduce changes because the majority
holdl micdle rather than upper ulanagerment positOLns.  The
Project Unit (Chapter V, Main Report) would be comprised
largely of persons from this category and, together with
proposed training programs, the Project would improve the
situation.
(d) Planning and Coordination with other Sections of the Government
Although the Ministry of Planning and Finance monitors the
integrated development of forestry and forest industries,
there is no specific unit charged with this responsibility.
This has led to independent action by individual sections of
Government which lack the level of coordination required for
successful planning. For example, inadequate negotiations
took place with other Government entities when the TC first
drew up proposals for this Project; the FD's opinion on the
proposed level of operations wan not sought and implications
of additional and improved all-weather access road requirements
were not reviewed with the CC. On a broader scale, the scope
and direction of FD's role in supplying the country's future
needs for lumber, wood based panel products and paper has still
to be determined. Steps are needed (discussed in Annex 10)
to assess, (a) the quantity and suitability of bamboo for
pulp and paper production, and (b) the additional plantations
of teak and quick-growing eucalyptus and softwood plantations
required to augment the existing resource.
(e)  Marketing
At present only about 75% of the contracted log and lumber
sales (Annex 15 para 10) are exported and relatively small
quantities of hardwood are shipped from Burma compared
with other South East Asian countries with similar
timber resources. Increased log production, improved
promotion of hardwoods other than teak, and modification
of the existing country allocarion marketing system
(Annex 15, para 9) is required to overcome this constraint.
(f)  Wastage
Log losses and deterioration of quality takes place at almost
every stage of the TC's operation from forest to mill or
export depot. Teak losses over the past five years have
amounted to over 200,000 TPA of saleable timber (40% of



ANNEX 2
Page 8
the volume felled in the forest) valued at about US$30
million. Nearly 90% of this is merchantable timber left
at stump 1/ and logs lost between the forest and rafting depots;
the balance is made up of foregone incremental growth on
the backlog of standing girdled trees. In addition, the
FD losses over US$5.5 million annually as teak royalty
is only paid on teak logs that reach the rafting depots.
The value of the standing baclclog of girdled trees is
about IJS$280 million.
Deterioration of teak quality occurs: -
-    in girdled trees that are left standing more than 10
to 15 years due to weathering (loss of bark followed
by action of rain and heat) and bee-nole borer attack; 2/
-    during the three to five years it normally takes for
logs to be transported from forest to mills or depots
in Rangoon;
-    With hardwoods, losses of up to 20% take place in the
dry log depots due to log-end trimming. Degrade also
results from stains, checking and splitting caused by
weathering and direct exposure; and,
-    in the sawmills, low recovery - 34% for teak and 44%
for hardwoods - caused by old equipment and inefficient
operation is the principal concern.
(g) Animal Power
Since 1939, the number of elephants used in logging operations
has declined from some 6,500 to 3,500. If a start were
made now it would take over 25 years to reach the pre-war
level because the net gain is only about 100 a year.
Buffalos at present number about 15,000.
Rationale for an Extraction Proiect
2n.       The whole forestry and forest industries sector clearly
needs substantial inputs if it is to play a more significant role in
Burma's development. It would be desirable to:
1/   In inaccessible or difficult areas, the TC is not forced to remove top
logs which are less than 4' mid girth, 10' in length or less than
20 ft3; in better areas this is reduced to 3'3" mid girth, 8' in
length or a volume of less than 16 ft.
2/   Caused by Xylutes cerimica.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
survey the bamboo resources;
establish more teak and quick-growing forest plantations;
purchase vehicles and equipment for the FD;
construct roads into the forest;
purchase extraction and transportation equipment;
expand extraction to the AAC plus recovery of backlog;
rehabilitate the sawmill and plywood industry;
expand the market for hardwood logs and lumber;
-    improve the TC's management, financial practices and
operational techniques; and
prepare feasibility studies covering the sawmilling, wood
based panel products and pulp and paper industries.
But this would be too large a program to tackle all at once, and in any case,
priorities emerge that are suitable for immediate financing without
further detailed study.  The most urgent needs are:  (a) to step up the
rate of log production, so that the annual allowable cut (and a reduction
in the backlog) can be achieved; and (b) to rehabilitate the sawmill -
plywood industry, so that mills operate profitably.  The first can be
achieved immediately with inputs of foreign exchange and technical assis-
tance; the second only after studies have determined the optimum number,
size and location of the new mills, and the degree of rehabilitation or
expansion justified in existing mills.
21.       Thus, the Project now proposed will focus principally on road
construction and log extraction and transportation in a selected project
area. However, it will also provide funds for:
-    insuring sawmill capacity for converting Project production;
-    countrywide feasibility studies; and,
-    inspection vehicles and trucks required by the FD
in the Project area.
In addition, the Project will provide a nucleus for improving TC's
management and financial practices, introducing new operational techniques,
and expanding the market for other hardwoods.
22.       It is important that the FD be associated with project implementation
right from the beginning by improving staff mobility, thereby allowing them



ANNEX 2
Page 10
to enforce sound forest management, silviculture and extracion practices
that are necessary for the maintenance and improvement of the rawq material
base. Feasibility studies covering the whole country are required, first
to determine the steps necessary to vitalize the existing sawmills and
plywood industries, and secondly, to assess the future role of wood based
panel projects (particle board and fiber board) and pulp and paper might
have to play in the country's industrial development. In addition they
would incornorate:
-    reassessing the resource base (including bamboo)
and its management;
-    assessing the need to establish additional plantations
of teak and quick-growing exotic species;
-    studying market prospects for logs and wood based products;
and
-    introducing improved logging and transportation methods -
(including those tested in the Project area) to the areas
outside.
Annex 10 contains further details on the studies required.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Burma's Forest Areas by Ecological Type
(million acres)
Forest Type                     Acres 
1/ 
Tropical Mixed Deciduous               51.5          54
Hill and Temperate E/ergreenY          24.8          26
Tropical Evergeen3/                    15.2          16
Tidal, Beach, Dune and Swamp            3.8           4
Total Acres4/                     95.3        100
Total Area of Burma              167.2
Percent under Forest Cover                      57
1/ Main source of teak (Tectona grandis).
2/ Includes coniferous forests of Pinus merkusii and P. kes1ya.
3/ Contains commercial Dipterocarpus spp., other marketable hardwoods, and bamboo.
4/ Made up of 23.8 million acres of reserved forest and 71.5 million acres of
unreserved forest.
Source: Forest Department



ANNEX 2
BURMA                               Table 2
FORESTRY PROJECT
Burma's Marketable Hardwoods /1
other than Teak
Average
Percent
Extracted    Burmese                 Botanical               Royalty    US$
Group  from 1964-69     Name                    Name                    K/LT      m3(r)
I           19      Pyinkado     Xylia dolabriformis        Benth.  )
1      Padauk       Pterocarpus macrocarpus   Kurz.   )  24.o0       2.76
(Thingan      Hopea odorata             Roxb.  )
1     (Thingan-net  Hopea helferi              Brandis )
II           2      Thitya       Shorea oblongifolia        Thw.    )
2      Ingyin       Pentacme siamensis         Kurz.   )
1      Kokko        Albizzia spp.              Benth.  )
(Thitka       Pentace burmanica         Kurz.   ) 12.00       1.38
1     (Thitsho      Pentace griffithii         King.   )
(Thitkado     Cedrela toona             Roxb.   )
(Sagawa       Michelia champaca         Linn.
III         23      In           Dipterocarpus tuberculatus Roxb.  )
21      Kanyin       Dipterocarpus spp.                 )
1      Pyinma       Lagerstromia speciosa      Pers.   )
1      Thadi        Protium serratum           Engler. )  6           6
(Yinma        Chukrasia spp.             Juss.   )            0.69
1     (Yemane       Gmelina arborea            Roxb.   )
(Hnaw         Adina cordifolia           Hock    )
(Binga        Mitragyna rotundifolia    O.Ktze  )
IV           3      Match wood   Salmalia spp.   Shott & Endl.       )
Anthocephalus cadamba     Mig.    )
)
V            1      Taungthayet  Swintonia floribunda       Griff.  )
1      Tawthayet    Mangifera caloneura        Kurz.   )
1      Taukkyan     Terminalia tomentosa       WA      )  4.00       o.46
(Mani-awga    Carallia brachiata (Lour.)Merr.  )
1     (Yindaik      Dalbergia cultrata         Grah.   )
(Thinwin      Millettina pendula        Benth.
(Tamalan      Dalbergia oliveri          Gamble. )
(Sandawa      Cordia fragrantissima      Kurz.   )
19      Others
100      Total
/   From a total of some 2,000 indigenous tree species



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Burma' s Annual Allowable Cut (AAC) for Teak and Hardwoods
(acres and log tons '000')
T E A K                                       H A R D W OO D S
Classification      Area      AAC /1   Yield/ac /2  Vol.cut/ac /3    Area         AAC    Yield/ac /2 Vol.cut/ac/3
Reserved Forest    lL,4oo      246.6      0.017           0.514          17.323   1,592.1    0.092       2.757
Unreserved Forest   31,920      99.2      0.003           0.093          73-530     581.8    0.008       0.024
Total            h6,320     345.8                                      90.853   2,173.9
Average                         -       0.007           0.225                               0.024      0.718
Say                         346,000 /4                                          2 million
/1 Expressed in log tons: obtained by multiplying number of yield trees - generally those 716" gbh
and over - by a standard factor of 1.99. The conversion factors used by TC (Annex 3, Table 1)
depend on location and vary between 1.4 and 2.
/2 AAC s area giving yield/acre/year over the whole forest.
/7 Volume/acre available for extraction assuming a 30 year felling cycle.
/4  Does not take into account the backlog of unextracted girdled trees.
Source: Forest Department
m1



ANNEX 2
Table 4
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Burma's Past Production of Teak and Hardwood Logs
('000 log tons)
TEAK                              HARDWOOD
: Government   Private    Total        : Government   Private    Total
1939/40                          447         447             -          478         478
1945/46               -           56          56             -          166          166
1950/51              55           73         128              -          249         249
1955/56             134           32         166             -           594         594
1960/61             260           33         293             -          671          671
1961/62             239           12         251             -          916          916
1962/63             362           -          362             -        1,018       1,018
1963/64             333           -          333            464         320 /1       784
1964/65             285           -          285            594         243          837
1965/66             282           -          282            609          256         865
1966/67             243           -          243            639         268          907
1967/68             296           -          296            615         292          907
1968/69             301           -          301            614          296         910
1969/70             301           -          301            612          300         912
1970/71             358           -          358             615        306.         921
/1 Extracted by private contractors for the T.C.
Source: Report to the People 1971/72



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Burma's Backlog of Ripe Girdled Teak Trees
as at 30 September, 1972
(trees '000')
Forest Division           Period    Girdled                 Forest  livision           Period    Girdled
1948/49   1958/59     Total                                 1948/49   1958/59      Total
to 1957/58  to 1969/70                                       to 1957/58 to 1969/70
* Yaw                          -          13.9      13.9    Myitkyina                       3.7       16.2       19.9
*Minbu                         _          3.6        3.6    Bhamo                          0.7        25.4       26.1
* Thayet                      4.2         55.3      59.5    East Katha                       -         5.1        5.1
* Aunglan                     9.4        20.2       29.6    West Katha                      1.9       29.6       31.5
*Insein                        _          3.0        3.0    Shwebo                           -        32.0       32.0
*Tharrawaddy                   -         29.5       29.5    Upper Chindwin/Myittha        10.2        39.6      49.8
*Zigon                        1.7        25.4       27.1    Lower Chindwin                   -        37.6       37.6
*Prome                        1.5        26.7       28.2    Southern Shan State            31.0       19.7       50.7
Project Area Sub total   16.8        177.6     194.4    Northern Shan State              -         10.8      108
Chin Hills                   2.5        24.2       27.0    Mongmit                        005        32.6      33.1
* North Toungoo                -          11.5      11.5   Kayah                             -         9.0        9.0
South Toungoo                0.2         9.7        9.9
North Pegu                    -         42.0       42.0      Total Burma                 68.8       626.8     695.6
South Pegu                   0.8        30.1       30.9
Arakan                        -         17.9       17.9      Log tons (millions)          0.15        1.25       1.40
Henzada/Bassein               -          5.5        5.5
Thaton/Atran/Kadoe            -          1.5        1.5      * Divisions containing black stripe teak
Pa-an                         -         15.6       15.6
Kawkareik                     -          7.0        7.0
Mandalay/Maymyo               -          7.7        7.7
Meiktila                     0.2         5.1        5.3
*Yamethin                      -           5.2       5.2
*Pyinmana                                  8.6       8.6
Source:  Timber Corporation                                                                                              zA
r0



ANNEX 2
Table 6
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Silvicultural Operations: Whole of Burma
1967-8  1968-9  1969-70  1970-1  1971-2   Average
t '000 of acres)
/1
Plantation Established
/2
Teak     /2                   4.3      3.4      3.2      2.5      2.0      3.0
Pyinkado                 /3   1.9      1.3      1.5      1.6      0.8      1.4
Eucalyptus camaldulensis       -       0.1      1.2      1.6      3.6      1.3
Others                         0.8     2.0      1.0      0.4      0.2      0.8
Total                                                            6.5
Other silvicultural operations
Improvement fellings         14.1    12.8    25.9       12.9    21.4      17.4
Natural regeneration /j -   27.2    13.4    18.2        19.1    25.0      20.6
Artificial regeneration        9.3     7.8      8.2      7.5      7.7       8.1
Weeding                       41.6    42.4    45.1      54.4    47.3      46.2
Thinning                      4.0      1.9      3.1      3.7      3.7      3.3
Total                                                           95.6
/1 By fiscal 1972 some 183,000 acres had been planted
(117,000 teak, 14,000 pyinkado, 15,000 others including eucalyptus.)
/2 Direct cost is K 250/acre or equivalent to about US$ 130/ha.
/3 Direct cost is K 405/acre or about US$ 210/ha.
/4 In forest which has not been clear felled.



ANNEX 2
Table 7
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Burma's Past Production of Teak and
Hardwood Conversion
TEAK             :        HARDWOODS
: INPUT         OUTPUT    :    INPUT            OUTPUT
:'000 LT        '000 ST         '000 LT         '000 ST:
1966-67                           228            110            561             307
1967-68                           221             95            513             285
1968-69                           234            102            559             314
1969-70                           252            110            600             334
1970-71                           270            110            572             327
Average       241            105            561             314
/1
Recovery                      44%                            56%
/1 Based on log tons to sawn tons: If calculated on a true geometric volume
basis this would be 34% for teak and 44% for hardwoods.
Sdurce: Timber Corporation






ANNEX 3
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Resource Base
Introduction
This Annex deals specifically with the forest resource base in
the Project area; its location; topography, climate and soils; accessibility:
forest types; annual allowable cut; management; and administration. Forest
Department capital cost requirements included in Project costs are also
covered.
Location
1.        The Project area is situated in South Central Burma (Map IBRD 10950)
It comprises eight Forest Divisions:  Yaw, 1/ Minbu, Thayet and Aunglan
in the Magwe Forest Circle; and, Prome, Zigon, Tharrawaddy and Insein in
the Pegu Forest Circle. These forest divisions are contained in five
Timber Corporation (TC) Extraction Agencies: Pakkoku and Thayet in the
Chindwin Zone; and, Prome, Tharrawaddy and Zigon in the Irrawaddy Zone
(Map IBRD 10768).
2.        The mountain ridges of Pegu Yomas and Arakan Yomas form the
eastern and western boundaries. The southern boundary lies in the
Irrawaddy Delta and the northern boundary in the plains where the Chindwin
River joins the Irrawaddy. The length of the Project area north to south
is some 400 miles and the average width about 75 miles.
Topogranhy, Climate and Soils
3.        The Yaw, Minbu, Thayet and Prome Divisions all contain hilly
country which makes logging access roads costly; the remainder (Zigon,
Tharrawaddy and Insein) are situated in gently undulated country where
logging conditions are easier.
1/   About 10% of this Division falls in the Gangaw Extraction Agency and
is not included in the Project area.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Climatically, three distinct seasons prevail in the Project
area:
-    the dry cool season from November to February when no
rain at all is expected;
-    the dry, hot season from February to May; and
-    the wet season (monsoon) from May to November.
Heavy rains in the wet season curtail the use of mechanical equinment.
Rainfall averages from 30 to 60 inches in the north and central parts
of the Project area, and 50 to 90 inches in the southern part. The
average maximum and minimum temperatures in the Project area are 90F
and 70'F. The extremes are 115'F in April/May and 40'F in December/
January. Logging operations are affected during the hot, dry period,
as elephants cannot work effectively under such conditions; they are only
used during the cool season from June to February.
5.        Soils in the Project area are principally derived from shale,
sandy shale and sandstone. Shale is usually restricted to the valleys
and tends to erode easily; it produces a poor soil capable of supporting
only a dry, slow-growing hardwood forest of inferior quality. The sandy
shale and sandstone (occurring in about 75% of the forest area), on the
other hand, produces more fertile soils siupporting high-quality teak-bearing
mixed deciduous forests.
Communications
6.        The Project area can be reached from Rangoon by road, rail,
river and air. Four airports are located in the Project area (Map 1).
An all-weather road from Rangoon connects Prone where the Project head-
quarters is to be sited. The Irrawaddy river flows north - south through
the Project area. Roads leading into the forest areas from both banks
of the Irrawaddy constitute the infrastructure for road development.
The forests are 15 to 60 miles from the main river banks.
7.        North-south transport of timber on the Irrawaddy is possible
all through the year. Due to shortage of railway traction power, and log
transport trucks/flats, rail transport of logs is not considered feasible.
Transport of logs to Rangoon from the Project area will therefore be by
river and road. The lack of east-west all-weather roads, permanent
forest access roads, and rivers for io- floating cause the main bottleneck
in the east-west flow of logs. Transport of supplies to and from Prome
can be by river, rail or road during the wihole year, and by air also during
the dry season.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Forests
8.        The Project area contains about 5 million acres (3 million
Reserved and 2 million Unreserved) of mixed deciduous teak/hardwood
forests. This represents about 10% of Burma's mixed deciduous forests
which commercially is the most valuable type found in the country. They
are divided into three types; moist upper mixed deciduous forest, dry
upper mixed deciduous forest and lower mixed deciduous forest:
(a)  Moist upper mixed deciduous forest
This - the most valuable of the three types - occurs on
well-drained slopes over-lying sandstone; the soils are
usually deep and contain little clay. High quality teak
is abundant and is usually associated with two other com-
mercial species; pyinkado (Xvlia dolabriformis) and taukkyin
yindaik (Dalbergia cultrata). The forest is characterized
by an undergrowth of bamboos - kyathaung. (Bambusa
polymorpha) and tinwa (Cepalastachyum pergracile).
(b)  Dr, upper mixed deciduous forests
Mloist forest is usually replaced by this type on slopes
facing southeast to southwest. Growth is not as luxuriant
as in the moist forest, but it contains more commercial
hardwoods. Teak predominates with taukkyan (Terminalia
tomentosa), binga (Mitragyna rotundifolia), cutch
(Acacia catechu), knaw (Adina cordifolia), thitya (Shorea
oblongifolia), ingjin (Pentacme siamensis) and padauk
(Pterocarpus macrocarpus) are the main commercial species.
Teak's height, growth and shape in this type is generally
poor, and it is seldom possible to get more than 40 ft of
clear bole. The bamboo undergrowth consists mainly of mvin
(Dendrocalanus strictus) and is associated with stunted
bamboo species found in the moist forest.
(c)  Lower mixed deciduous forests
This type usually occurs on the alluvial plains and in the
foothills where the soil's clay content is higher than in
the upper mixed deciduous forests. Its composition is
largely influenced by rainfall and water logging during the
rains. Here teak occurs in quantity and grows big, but is
not usuallv as well shaped as those found on the slopes. It
is characterized by good growth of pyinkado, taukkyan, kan-in
(Di terocarpus spp.). Other characteristic species are
pyinma (Lagerstroemia speciosa), kokko (Albizza snp.).  The
bamboo understory is either scarce or absent in this tyve.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        The annual allowable cut (AMC) for teak is about 65,000 LT;
55,000 LT from Reserved forests and 10,000 LT from Unreserved forests
distributed as shown in the following table:
Forestry             Reserve            Unreserved                Total
Division             Forest               Forest
-------------------------------'000 LT-----------------------------
Yaw                    8.5                   1.0                    9.5
Minbu                  6.0                    -                     6.0
Thayet                18.3                   6.6                   24.9
Aunglan                1.9                   1.9                    3.8
Prome                  5.2                   0.9                    6.1
Zigon                  6.6                    -                     6.6
Tharrawaddy            6.2                                          6.2
Insein                 2.3                                          2.3
Total                 55.0                  10.4                   65.4
Details are contained in Table 1. However, as there is a 280,000 LT
backlog of ripe girdled teak (Table 2) to be removed, the total amount
extracted during the five-year project period will be about 100,000 LT
annually. By 1982/83 the backlog will be removed and extraction will
drop back to the AAC of 65,000 LT. 1/ Details are contained in Annex 7,
Table 2.
10.       The MAC for hardwoods is about 215,000 LT with distribution
as follows:
Forestry               Reserve           Unreserved
Division               Forest              Forest                 Total
Yaw                        18                  4                   22
Minbu                      15                  _                   15
Thayet/Aunglan            81                  18                   99
Prome                      25                  3                   28
Zigon                     26                   -                   26
Tharrawaddy                14                                      14
Insein                    11                                       11
Total                    190                  25                  215
'able 3 contains details by accessibility classes.  It is planned to
remove an annual minimum of 62,000 LT during the first five-years of the
Project (Annex 7, Table 3); this is exnected to increase to an average
of some 114,000 LT per year during the following five year period.
1/   This amount, based on existing management plans, may increase with in-
tensified silviculture, shorter rotation and lower girth limit proposals
to be investigated during project implementation.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Forest Management
11.       The eight Forestry Divisions are covered by ten year working
plans which prescribe the forest operations to be carried out annually.
During the five year Project period, the Forest Department (FD) expects
to complete the following annual program;
-    girdling                             42,000 trees/a
-    climber cutting                      80,000 acres
-    improvement felling                   6,000 acres
-    compartment and coupe boundary
repairs                                 320 miles
-    reserve boundary repairs /b              152 miles
-    selection felling marking-           65,000 trees
-    replanting                            1,500 acres
-    thinning                               1,200 acres
-    protection                            5,000 acres
/a   As roads extend into the Project area the
proportion of green teak extractions will
increase, thereby reducing the number of trees
to be girdled.
/b   Marking selected trees which exceed the girth
limit and are to be girded or felled.
FD staff and funds are adequate to complete this program.
12.       FD staff in the Project area numbers some 730 as follows:
Trainin_                   Post                          Number
University of Rangoon      Deputy Directors                  8
Assistant Directors             18
Maymyo Ranger School       Forest Rangers                  42
Deputy Rangers                  91
On-the-job                 Foresters                      345
Elephant Keepers                24
Clerks                          98
Office Attendants              102
Drivers                          2
732
Unskilled labor, to carry out the forestry program, is easily obtained
from farm villages close to the Project area and from towns and villages
along the Irrawaddy River.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Capital Costs
13.       A major constraint to ef;fective silvicultural management of the
Project area forests is the lack of inspection vehicles and trucks. Only
two pickups, one of which is nearly ten years old, exists in the area, and
there are no trucks. Provisions has been made in the Project to include the
purchase of 48 vehicles for a total cost of nearly Kyats 1.4 million:
'000 Kaats
Inspection Vehicles (4 x 4)       10           250
Pickups (4 x 2)                   10           262
Trucks (5-6 tons)                  8           475
Motorcycles                       20           109
Spare parts                       -            250
Handling & inland freight         -             50
TOTALS                      48         1,396
The phasing of capital expenditure by local and foreign costs is
contained in Annex 11, Table 7. No provision is made in the Project
for the operating costs required to run these additional vehicles; this
will be provided from the FD's current budget.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Annua) Allowable Cut / - Teak
Conversion/2
Forest        Extraction  Factor-Trees        RESERVED FOREST              UNRESERVED FOREST                   TOTAL
Division        Agency       to LT       Area  No. of Trees  Volumew Area  No. of Trees  Volume   Area  No.af Trees  Volume
m acres                      m acres                        m acres
YAW           Pakokku        1.6        0.598      5300        8480   0.686      650        1040    1.284     5950       9520
MINBU         Pakokku        1.6        0.638      3750        6000     -        -            -     0.638     3750       6000
THAIET        Thayet         1.4        0.636     13050       18270   1.266     4750        6650    1.902    17800      24920
Prome
AUNGLAN       Thayet         1.4        0.131      1350        1890   0.290     1400        1960    0.421     2750       3850
PROME         Pzriomn       1.6         0.259      3260        5216   0.316      580         928    0.575     3840       6144
ZIGON         Zigon         1.9         0.269      3500        6650     -        -            -     0.269     3500       6650
THARRAWADDY   Tharrawaddy   2.0         0.233      3100        6200     -        -            -     0.233     3100       6200
INSEIN        Tharrawaddy   2.0         0.150      1150        2300     -        -            -     0.150     1150       2300
TOTALS            1.6         2.914     34,460     55,006  2.558    7,380       10,578   5.472   41,840    65,584
Say                                                55,000                       10,000                       65,000
/1  Determined in 10 year working plans for each Forest Division
7   Determined by Timber Corporation experience. Using the Forest Department standard oonversion factor of
1.99 the total AAC would be some 83,000 tons.
/3  The north-west portion of the division falling in the Gangawagency is excluded from the a&nual allowable cst.
76 This is the total area of Yaw Division
Expressed in log tons of 50 cuft   Hoppus measure which is equivalent to 63.65 cuft true geometric volume
or about 1.805 m3(r) under bark.
I-I
pa
U



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Backlog of Girdled Teak Trees as at 31 May. 1973
Forest         Extraotion    Conversion          RIPE                   UNRIPE /2               TOTAL
Division         Agency        Factor          No       Volume       No        Volume       No       Volume"-
YAW            Pakokku            1.6       144,500     23,200    13,000       20,800     27,500 o    44,000
MINEJ          Pakokku            1.6       16,4oo      26,200        -           -       16,4o0      26,200
THAYET         Thayet             1h        32,200      45,100        -           -       32,200     45,}00
Prome                       13,600       19,000    17,200      24,100      30,800     43,400
AUNOLAN        Thayet             1.4       10,600      14,800     1,000        1,1400    11,600      16,200
PROME          Prone              16        21,200      33,900     2,300        3,700     23,500      37,600
Zigon                       11,900       19,000       -           -        11,900     19,000
ZIGON          Zigon             1.9        24,900       7,300       -            -       24,900     47,300
THARRAWADDY    Tharrawaddy        2.0       22,600      45,200        -           -       22,600      45,200
INSEIN         Tharrawaddy        2.0        3,000       6,000     2,900        $,800      5.900      11,800
TOTAL                             170,900      279,700    36,400      55,800    207,300    335,5DO
/3
Say                      1.5      170,900      280,000    36,400      55,000    207,300    335,000
/1 Includes all trees girdled between 1949/50 and 1970/71
/ Includes all trees girdled between 1971/72 and 1972/73
/5 Assumed to be the backlog as at 31 May, 1973.
/T  All volames rotunded-off.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJEC-
Annual Allowable Cut - Hardwoods
(rOOO1 LT)
Forest Division           RESERVED FOREST                  UNRESERVED FOREST                    TOTALS
A  B        Eh      C    TOTAL         B      D1    C    TOTAL       B       Bi      C  -rTOTAL
YAW /2             6.7;     7.8     4.14   18.9        4.1     -     _     4.1      10.8    7,8      4.4   23.0
MINBU              5.4       -      9.7   15.1          -      _-           -        5.4      -      9.7    15.1
THAYET/AUNGLAN    22.2      9.7    49.4    81.3       10.6    3,5   3,9  18.0       32.8  13.2    53.3    99.3
PROME             110      8.0     6.1    25.1        2.0  o08    -       2.8      13.0    8.8      6.1    27.9
ZIGON              9,3      5.0   11,7    26.0          -     -             -        9.3    5,0    11.7   26.0
THARRAWADDY        5.6      3.3     5.3   14.2         0.3     -     -     0.3       5.9    3.3      5.3    14.5
INSEIN             7.0      1.5     3.2   11.7          _     -             -         7,0    1.5     3.2    11.7
TOTALS   67.2     35.3    89.8  192.3        17.0    4.3  3.9  25.2        84.2  39.6    93,7   217.5
Say                              190                             25        84      38      93     215
/1  Accessibility classes B  Areas that can be logged using existing roads
BD  Areas that can be logged with further construction of access roads in the near future
C Areas that can be logged with further construction of access roads in the distant future
/2 These figures exclude the annual allowable cut from that portion of the division falling in Gangaw Agency.
a U






ANNEX 4
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Department (FD)
1.        The Forest Department was established in 1856, and is now a
division of MAF. The FD Director General is responsible to the Deputy
Minister of Agriculture and Forests. FD employs about 3,800 permanent
employees - some 148 graduate foresters 40 of whom have received post
graduate training; about 630 forest rangers hold diplomas from the Maymyo
Rangers' School; and over 1,600 forest guards are with on-the-job training.
The long technical tradition and post-graduate training overseas of many
of FD's officers have contributed to its high technical competence.
2.        Although the University of Rangoon is providing about 45
forestry graduates a year, lack of funds prevents the FD from employing
more than four to five annually; the balance are either taken on by the
TC or have to find jobs outside their profession. The Maymyo Ranger
School turns out about 30 diploma holders annually; all are assured
employment by the FD.
3.        The IJiDP is likely to assist in the establishment of the
Institution for Agriculture, Veterinary Service and Forestry at Yeazin
near Pyinmana. Construction of the Forest Research Institute buildings
is expected to start early in 1974. Once facilities are available, the
Rangoon University faculty of forestry will also move to Yeazin.
4.        For administrative purposes FD classifies the country into six
Forest Circles each headed by a Director. These are divided into 33
Forest Divisions 1/ headed by Deputy Directors. Divisions are divided
into ranges and ranges into forest beats. At headquarters in Rangoon
there is a Working Plans Circle and a Research and Training Circle
comprising the Utilization Officer, Silviculturalist, Forest Economist
and Director, Maymyo Ranger School. Chart 2 shows the FD organization
chart. Vehicles and equipment are in short supply and old:
Average Age
Inspection vehicles              36             13
Trucks                           12             12
Bulldozers                        2             22
Tractors                          4              9
1/   These Divisions are not altogether related to TC's Extraction
Agency classification.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Lack of vehicles is the major constraint to the managenent of the
coLntry's forests, and control of TC's logging and extraction operations.
The FD constructs a few inspection roads by hand; mechanical road construc-
tion ceased to be a FD responsibility when it was handed over to the TC
and Construction Corporation In 1962.
5.        Revenue from royalties has exceeded expenditure since the FD
was first established.  Over the past five years net revenue has averaged
some Kyats 34 nallion (US$7 million) annually:
Fiscal Year                  Revenue              Expenditure         Balance
---------------Million Kyats-----------------
1968                            38                    15                  23
1969                            58                    14                  44
1970                            51                    16                  35
1971                            51                    16                  35
1972                            51                    16                  35
Average                                                             34
6.        Teak accounts for 78% of the revenue, hardwoods for 18% and
other forest produce for 4%. Table 1 contains details of revenue and
expenditure for the past five years.
7.        The FD receives its annual budget from the Ministry of Planning
and Finance under Activity Headings. This is then distributed to Forestry
Divisions by the Director General of Forests. Over the past years there
has been a slight increase in allocation, but it is insufficient to implement
either the annual program prescribed in the Working Plans or to establish
plantations at the desired rate of about 20,000 acres per year. Funds
are sufficient to plant between 5,000 and 7,000 acres annually (Annex 2,
para 11).
8.        Revenue is obtained through royalties charged on logs and
other forest produce. Logs are measured 1/ at rafting stations if they
are being transported by river, and at road or rail head if being
transported over-land. Commercial hardwoods other than teak command
royalties ranging from K 24/LT (US$2.76/m3) for Group 1 species to K 4/LT
(US$0.46/m3) for Group 5 species. For details see Annex 2, Table 2. Teak
royalties range from K 300/LT (US$34.55/m3) to K 30/LT (US$3.45 m3) depending
on quality and location. Royalty rates for both teak and hardwoods were
set in 1948 and bear little relation to today's selling prices. In 1948,
extraction costs were subtracted from log selling prices, and the FD
received 60% of the balance as royalty; the remaining 40% was retained
as profit by the timber companies.
1/   Length x mid-girth to give Hoppus foot measure.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.        To compensate for the loss of royalties the TC now credits FD
with a sum of money, which together with royalty already paid at the lease
rates, represents 60% of the TC's pre-tax profit after all expenses have
been met. This money is known as deferred royalty and is usually credited
a year or two after the TC has closed its accounts for the year in question.
No deferred royalty has been credited to the FD recently as standard
royalty payments have exceeded TC's pre-tax profits each year since fiscal
1969:
60% of TC's         Standard royalty    Deferred royalty
Fiscal               pre-tax profit             paid      -   payment paid
--------------million Kyats-----------------------
1968                     46.0                    34.7                 11.3
1969                     63.7                    39.8                 23.9
1970                     41.5                    45.2                   -
1971                     46.1                    49.7
1972                     37.2                    39.6






ANNEX 4
BURMA                               Table I
FORESTRY PROJECT
Eoirest Department Revenue and Expenditure
1967-68    1968-69   1969-70   1970-71   1971-72
- -------------- million  Kyats
REVENUE
Teak                            29.2        45.6       39.5       40.1       40.3
Hardwoods                        7.6        10.0        9.1        9.1        9.2
Other Forest Produce             1.5          2.3       2.0        2.0        2.0
TOTAL                       38.3         57.9       50.6       51.2      51.5
EXPENDITURE
Current                         14.5        14.0       15.2       15.6       15.9
Capital                          1.0         0.3        0.7        0.2        0.3
TOTAL                       15.5         14.3       15.9      15.8       16.2
BALANCE                         22.8        43.6       34.7       35.4       35.3
Source: Forest Department






Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
The Timber Corporation (TC)
Background
1.        Burma became an independent state in 1948, and during 1948 and
1949 private teak extraction and sawmilling enterprises were nationalized.
The owners, mostly British, were paid compensation on the take-over. Hard-
wood (non-teak) extraction operations too were nationalized on October 1,
1963, and by December 1968 many hardwood mills owned by Burmese, Chinese
and Indians were also taken over, but without payment of compensation. The
sawnmlls now in private hands (mostly small units) are obliged to undertake
work for TC on contract.
2.        In order to continue the operations of the many private timber
enterprises taken over by GOB, the State Timber Board (STB) was established
under the State Timber Board Order of 1948, subsequently enacted as the
State Timber Board Act of 1950. Under this Act, STB was a corporate body
with separate legal entity and perpetual succession. STB's supreme admin-
istrative and managerial authority was vested in a Board composed of
10 members appointed by the President of the Republic. The Chairman of
this Board also functioned as the Chief Exeuctive Officer of STB.  By
GOB's "Implementation of the New Administrative Procedures" of February
14, 1972, STB name was changed to Timber Corporation (TC).
3.        The Board was required, under the Act, to lialse with and seek
the direction of the President (acting through MPF and MAF) on most of
STB's functions. This supervisory Board has, however, been inactive
since 1965, although a formal meeting was held in 1971. The Board was
abolished in March 1972.
Organization
4.        Since 1965 when the Board, for all practical purposes, ceased
to function and the Managing Director, as chief executive of TC, assumed most
of the responsibilities vested in the Board. He was however assisted by
several Management Committees composed only of executives of TC. These
Committees were given Government's official recognition only in March 1972.
The philosophy behind the formation of these Committees was collective
responsibility. TC presently has the following 9 Management Committees:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Services Committee        -    personnel matters
Extraction Committee      -    teak extraction and orchid sales
Hardwood Committee        -    hardwood extraction
Milling and Marketing    -    teak sawmills, marketing of logs and
Committee               -    conversions, plywood, furniture and
turpentine
Hardwouu i.i-Ll;tag
Committee               -    hardwood sawmills
Works Committee           -    workshops, building construction and
mechanical engineering
Stores Committee          -    procurement and Central Stores in
Rangoon
Pricing Committee         -    establishing selling prices for
exports and local sales of logs and
sawn timber
Okkyln Mill Committee    -    construction of the new sawmill at
Okkyin
5.        Each Committee comprises 7 to 10 TC exeutives.  Separate Com-
mittee meetings are held at least once a month. The Managing Director chairs
every meeting. Notices convening the meetings and all meeting minutes are
forwarded to the MAF for information. No voting takes place at these meetings
and the Managing Director refers most important and controversial matters
to the Deputy Mlinister of Agriculture and Forests for the latter's recom-
mendation or approval. The Managing Director also works in active liaison
with the Minister on most of TC's operational matters. TC budgets, approved
by MAF in draft, are however controlled by MPF. TC's organization structure
is shown in Chart 3. The headquarters in Rangoon has 5 Departments each
headed by a General Manager: -
Extraction
Milling and Marketing
Accounts
Engineering and
General Administration and Statistics
6.        As of September 1973, TC employed about 36,000 people made up as
follows:
Temporary
Departments                 Permanent    & Seasonal       Total
Extraction (excluding contract labor)  7,429            2,906       10,335
Milling & Marketing (excluding hired
private mills)                     18,506         5,835       24,341
Engineering                                576            138          741
Accounts                                   210             81          291
General Affairs                             69             35          104
26,790         8,995       35,785



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Additionally tree-felling and log-rafting gangs are engaged on a contract
basis. For skidding felled trees in the forests about 670 elephants and
2,500 buffaloes, privately owned, with their drivers and helpers are
employed on contract. Personnel engaged on contract work total about
14,500.   TC thus provides direct employment to about 50,000 persons.
Management
7.        The Extraction Department is responsible for extraction planning,
tree felling, skidding, and log transport to log depots and sawmills.
Timber extraction operations are divided, geographically, into four Ex-
traction Zones comprising a total of 35 Extraction Agencies (See Annex 7).
For physical operations in the field, the Zones and Agencies are responsible
to the Extraction Department. For accounts and finance they are responsible
to the Accounts Department. The Extraction Agency Managers have no
responsibility for milling in their areas.
8.        The Milling and Marketing Department assumes responsibility for
the timber when it takes over log deliveries at the sawmills or log depots.
These deliveries are charged out at cost by the Extraction Department whicis
is not treated as a profit earning cost center. TC operates 28 (including
9 private) teak sawmills and 231 (including 159 private) hardwood mills.
The converted timber from all sawmills are transferred to Marketing Division
also at cost. Profit or loss on all of TC timber operations is treated as
emerging only at the point of marketing. The marketing operations are
subdivided into 5 sections:
Green Teak Log (export);
Dry Teak Log (export);
Hardwood Logs (export & local);
Teak Conversions (export & Local); and
Hardwood Conversions (local)
This 7T)4artment operates its own fleet of trucks and other facilities for
transport to the Rangoon port and to timber sales depots.
9.        The Engineering Department is in charge of TC workshops; procure-
ment of equipment, spare parts and engineering supplies; and Central Store
in Rangoon. Civil engineering works and transport management are handled
as appropriate by the Extraction, Milling and lIarketing Departments. Equip-
ment repairs in the field and sawmill repairs too are the responsibility of
the respective operating departments. Ninety-one qualified engineers and
about 1,000 skilled technicians employed by TC are scattered in several
locations and departments without any proper coordination, thus contributing
to poor utilization of manpower and capital resources.
10.       The Accounts Department functions as a recording unit carrying ouc
bookkeeping duties for TC. This department does not engage itself in any
costing or control functions. The managers of the operating departments
do not appreciate Accounts Department involvement in their operations, and



ANNEX 5
Page 4
the Accounts Manager himself does not consider furnishing management inform-
ation to be within his purview. The emphasis is on historical accounting,
and cost and financial controls are considered trivial.
11.       The General Administration Department of which the Managing Director's
office is a part, undertakes miscellaneous functions not assigned to the
other four departments. Personnel management, public relations, liaison
with Government and Workers Councils are some of the responsibilities of
this department.
12.       Other Activities.  Apart from timber extraction, milling and
marketing, TC owns and operates three plywood and veneer factories, one
furniture factory and a turpentine distillery plant. Firewood, charcoal
and orchids are other activities in which TC has interest.
13.       Accounting Entities.  For purposes of annual budgeting and
accounting, TC's operations are divided into several Accounting Centers: -
Teak Extraction                Turpentine Distillery
Hardwood Extraction            Firewood
Teak Milling                   Charcoal
Hardwood Milling               Orchids
Export Sales - Logs            Other Forest Produce
Export Sales - Conversions    Plywood Factories
Local Sales                    Furniture Factory
Plywood and furniture are treated as distinct accounting entities with two
separate budgets and banks accounts. All other activities are incorporated
in one budget and funds operated in one bank account, recognized as the
'TC Budget' and 'TC Bank Account'. Separate annual profit and loss accounts
are prepared for plywood, furniture and TC's other activities. The annual
balance sheet is however a consolidated one.
14.       Financial Results.  TC's summarized profit and loss accounts for
the five years FY68 through FY72 and the consolidated balance sheets as at
September 30, 1971 and 1972 are presented in Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex.
Over the five-year period, the net profit before taxation shows a sharp
decline from K 51 M to K 22 M despite an improving trend in the sales
revenue. The major factor contributing to this adverse trend is the
timber milling. Poor management and deteriorating performance of sawmills
are discussed in Annex 8. TC's net profit for FY73 is expected to improve
to K 30 M, made possible only by an average 25% increase in teak export
prices. TC's profits are taxed at an effective rate of 99% which leaves
only nominal amounts annually as profit after taxation.
Fixed Assets
15.       These assets recorded in the books at cost are depreciated annually
at realistic rates. The total written down value of K 66.8 M at September
1972 could therefore be considered acceptable by commercial standards. The
existence of these assets in scattered locations all over Burma is certified,



ANNEX 5
Page 5
for annual audit purposes, by the respective Managers of the field Agencies,
sawmills, workshops and Head Office. Neither the executives from the Head
Office nor the audit officers from the State Audit Department have ever
physically verified the existence of these assets. The item "construction
Work-in-progress" of K 36 M relates mainly to the Okkyin sawmill and Pyinmana
Workshop being constructed under USAID and CIDA programs respectively.
Current Assets
16.       Some 60% of the total current assets of K 355 M represents
logs and timber on hand, logs lying in the forest or piled up along creeks
and streams awaiting floating; or stored in log yards and depots or sawmills.
Except the timber in the sawmills and log depots, no physical verification
is made of stocks even at the year-end.
17.       Capital tied up in inventories (spares and supplies) mounts
year after year. This is unfortunate particularly in the context of
Burma's foreign exchange difficulties. The lack of effective inventory
management has also led to the stores buildings being clogged with in-
creasing obsolete items while equipment in the field and mills stand idle
for want of vital spare parts. The present system of foreign exchange
allocation for spare parts also has contributed to this sitnttiin. Physical
verification of inventory is unsatiefactory. No surprise counts or
year-end verifications are carried out. "Trade Debtors" are credit sales
debts due from Government departments and corporations. Debt collection is
slow. "Other Debtors" include K 4.4 Mt described in the TC books as "Account
Current Debtors" which account is in fact a depository of aged uncollectible
debts. Item "Cash" includes K 884,550 demonetized notes dating back to
May 1964. TC hopes that Government will some day replace these notes with
valid currency.
Susoense Accounts
18.       Debit and credit accounts under this head feature on both sides
of the balance sheet. These items were explained by TC and State Audit
Office as "bookkeeping differences". They also hope that the credit amount
would offset part of the larger debit of K 20 It. TC has recently commenced
an investigation of these Suspense Accounts accumulated over many years.
The "credits" may not necessarily offset the "debits" and the "differences"
could also be hidden losses, and misappropriations.
api_tal and Reserves
19.       Government Capital does not carry any interest charge nor are
dividends payable tltereon. The profits earned by TC are transferred to
Government in the form of income tax calculated at rates steadily rising to
99%. Such high rate of taxation does not permit TC to accumulate any revenue
reserves. Only about K 5 M of the K 54 M Revenue Reserves appearing in the
balance sheet represents profit surplus accumulated during 10 years FY 63
through FY 72.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
20.       The sum of K 232 M shown under 'Union Government Consolidated
Fund' (UGCF) is in fact a bank overdraft taken by TC over a period of
years, but the UBB is not even aware of this indebtedness because
under the UGCF scheme the Bank considers the customers' account slate cleared
at the beginning of each financial year.
Financial Cont.
21.       Although TC is legally an independent commercial entity distinct
from Government, for all practical purposes, it operates as a department of
Government and is required to transfer all cash generated to the UGCF with
the UBB. Each state enterprise is assigned two ledger accounts in
the UBB books - a Receipts account and a Withdrawals account. All cash
income is deposited into the Receipts account. There is no link between the
Receipts account and the Withdrawals account. Withdrawals are based on
approved annual budgets. Four quarterly drawing limits are established
at the commencement of the year in strict accordance with the customer's
approved annual budget. Amounts not utilized by the end of each quarter
automatically lapse. TC, like most other account holders, makes it a
point to avoid such lapses by disbursing funds to the limits initially
authorized. Withdrawals over the established limit requires special
authorization from MPF which is not easy to obtain.
22.       The UGCF scheme has the advantage that GOB has recourse to
maximum amount of cash generated by the several state enterprises.  How-
ever, the arrangement which permits a corporation to withdraw funds without
reference to its cash generation lacks financial discipline so essential
to business efficiency. Some of the disadvantages of UGCF are:
(a) lack of expenditure control - approval of expenditure limits
based on annual budgets could be wasteful and ineffective
for commercial enterprises;
(b) cash withdrawals, without reference to or having any bearing
on earnings deposited, provide no incentive to increase
income generation or to speed up sales and debt collections;
(c) end of year deficits (withdrawals in excess of deposits) are
wiped out in Union Bank books - relieving the onus of
accountability for debts and poor performance;
(d) funds representing depreciation of fixed assets are also
deposited into the UGCF where the nature and identity of
purpose is lost, and GOB's financial problems makes it
possible for only a small proportion of the funds to be
returned to the corporations for the repair or replacement
of the depreciated assets. This policy pursued over long
periods have contributed to the state of disrepair of
equipment and the general drop in TC's production capa-
city: and



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(e) inability to modify investment plans, often dictated
by 'commercial urgency or business prudence', except
through the inflexible annual budgets linked to the
national budgeting process.
Financial discipline and prompt accountability need not be sacrificed in
achieving GOB's desire to utilize the nation's Kyat resources to optimum
advantage. Cash surpluses generated by commercial enterprises could be
harnessed by GOB through compulsory fixed deposits schemes and advance
collection of corporate taxes.
23.       In order to improve financial responsibility of state com-
mercial enterprises, Government introduced in 1970, the Working Capital
Scheme (WCS) on an experimental basis. Under WCS the budgeted capital
expenditure withdrawals are approved at the year commencement but the
working capital requirement (excess of current expenditure over current
income) is estimated and approved only quarterly when separate drawing
limits are established with the UBB for each quarter. Withdrawals in
excess of such specified working capital limits would carry an interest
charge of 3% per annum, intended to have a penalty effect on the enterprise.
All other drawings are interest free. By the WCS, Government hopes to
monitor performance, and to make suggestions for improving operating
efficiency of the state commercial enterprises operating under the scheme.
Although WCS is an improvement on the UGCF scheme and can provide a greater
measure of financial discipline, it is a far cry from giving the necessary
financial autonomy to corporations enough to make them efficiency oriented,
self-supporting and commercially viable.
Budgets
24.       Departmental budgets prepared by the respective departments are
submitted to the Accounts Department where it is coordinated. The draft
consolidated budget is then forwarded to the Minister of Agriculture and
Forests for his approval before submission to Minister of Planning and
Finance for his scrutiny. The final approval of the budget is given by
the Council of Ministers just prior to the commencement of each fiscal
year. 1/ Separate budgets are prepared for revenues, operating expenditure
and capital expenditure. The elaborate and time consuming budget pre-
paration is faithfully undertaken more to satisfy Government regulations
than for use as a tool of management. TC staff at field level do not
actively participate in formulating the budgets. Actual performance is
not recorded promptly for comparison with budget estimates. Naturally
analysis cannot be made of variances from budgeted targets nor is prompt
corrective action possible.
1/   Now October to September.  Government has planned changing it to an
April-March year from 1974/75.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Accounts and Audit
25.       The general books of account (ledgers, cash book and journals),
the annual profit and loss accounts, and balance sheets are prepared in
accordance with commercial principles. However TC is still obliged to
follow several routine procedures complying with Government regulations
prescribed in the 1934 Burma Treasury Manual. A vast amount of information
and statistics are recorded in different forms and combinations by different
staff. Most of the information however is not used by management, partly
because they are produced several months in arrears, and partly due to
potential users not being aware of the existence of valuable information.
Retrieval of information is difficult and time consuming.
26.       At the time of appraisal, TC's 1971/72 annual accounts were still
being prepared bv the Accounts Department staff. The 1970/71 annual audit
was in process. The audit report covering 1969/70 accounts was still with
the State Audit Office staff pending finalization. The last audit report
relating to 1968/69 was issued only in April 1972. The books of account
for 1972/73 were written up to May 1973. The Accounts Department Manager
was fully aware of the dangers of this situation, but did not see any
prospect of improving it.
Management Performance
27.       TC's Accounts Department does not issue any monthly financial
statement or other interim accounting statements.  During the year the only
monthlly figures produced are for tonnage achieved by the respective
Extraction Agencies, sawmiills, and export sales departments. Unit costing
of logs and sawn timber is done only when the annual accounts are completed 1/
on the basis of actual expenditure incurred. TC management thus has no
effective means to measure performance for timely corrective action.
28.       The TC management does not question the efficiency of the organiza-
tion. Their complacency is based possibly on the grounds that TC has been
increasing timber output tonnage during recent years and that TC has never
made a loss.
29.       Several members of TC's executive staff, particularly in the field
and factories, possess impressive educational and technical qualifications
and experience, but most of them live in frustration. There is no incentive
for good perforrance. Autlhority is over--centralized and there is little
evidence of delegation. Employees are not encouraged to use initiative -
executives avoid taking decisions for fear of being critized when wrong.
Tlhus management attitude is seen to be overtly indifferent. Lack of
discipline is accepted by senior management as unavoidable. Poor work
planning, inadequate coordination between operating departments, and
unsystematic work management result in wastage of manpower and capital
resources.
1/   Normally two years in arrear.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
30.       Despite the various serious shortcomings, TC has survived and
has had a record of 'profits'. TC survives in Burma as a commercial
organization because there is no other enterprise to compete with it. The
domestic market has for long been a starved and, therefore, captive market.
The export markets too have been captive because world buyers want something
that is obtainable solely in Burma (Burma Teak).






BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Timber Corporation - Profit and Loss Accounts-/
(Kyats Million)
1967/68           1968/69           1969/70           1970/71           1971/72
TOTAL SALES2/                                270.8             290.3             258.1              288.7             298.7
OPERATING SURPLUSES
Extraction:
Green Teak                                 20.5               27.1              13.4              18.0              20.6
Dry Teak                                   59.6              43.4               20.9              39.7              39.0
Hardwood                                    0.4                0.2               0.4               0.9                3.0
Sub-total                               80.5              70.7              34.7               58.6              62.6
Less Deferred Royalty Payments             11.3               23.9                -                 -                 _
Log Losses                             5.6               6.7                6.4               5.9               8.5
Sub-total                               16.9              30.6                6.4               5.9               8.5
Net Surpluses                           63.6              40.1               28.3              52.7              54.1
Sawmilling
Teak                                         3.3               5.0              -3.0             -15.3             -19.2
Hardwood                                     0.4              16.4              14.7               10.4               5.7
Net Surpluses/Deficit                    3.7               21.4              11.7             - 4.9             -13.5
Surplus from Other Products2/               1.3                0.7               2.1               1.8                4.7
Total Surpluses                         68.6               62.2              42.1              49.6               45.3
Deduct Sales Tax                            16.7              18.2              15.2               17.7              18.4
Miscellanous Expenses                        0.9               1.5               2.9                5.1               4.5
Sub-total                               17.6              19.7               18.1              22.8              22.9  "Ez
NET PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION                    51.0               42.5              24.0               26.8              22.4
Less Income Tax                             50.6              42.0              23.7               26.5              22.1
Profit after Taxation                        0.4               0.5               0.3                0.3               0.3
1/  1972/73 figures not available at appraisal time.  Audit of 1970/71 and 1971/72 accounts not completed.
2/ Excluding plywood and furniture manufacturing operations.
3/  Firewood, charcoal, orchids and turpentine.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Timber Corporation - Summarized Balance Sheets
(Kyat Million)
Sept. 30, 1971         Sept. 30, 1972                                                            Sept. 30, 1971          Sept. 30, 1972
Government Capital                                                                         Fixed Assets
Loans and Value of Nationalized                                                            Land                                              4.4                     4.4
Assets Transferred                              104.4                   104.4            Buildings                                         5.4                     5.5
Timber Extraction Equipment                     50.7                    61.2
Union Consolidated Fund                                                                    Motor Vehicles                                   10.7                    13.2
Launches                                         9.7                    11.3
Withdrawals in Excess of Deposits                 219.8                   232.4            Cargo Boats and Marine Transport                  2.7                     2.7
Sawmills (Teak)                                 26.2                    27.6
Sawmills (Hardwood)                             10.2                    10.2
Government Contribution                           324.2                   336.8            Marketing Department                              4.0                     4.1
Stores                                           0.5                     0.6
Revenue Reserves                                                                           Furniture and Office Equipment                    2.0                     2.1
Miscellanous                                      1.0                    1.0
Profit and Loss Account Surpluses                  53.3                    53.6
Total at Book-values                       127.5        _          143.9
Capital and Reserves                              377.5                   390.4
Less Accumulated Depreciation                   62.9                    77,1
Provisions                                                                                                                                            64.6                   66.8
Bad Debts                                  1.0                    1.0                      Construction - W2rk/in-           2/                       23.6                   36.0
Wrinprogress-
Stores Valuation                           4.3                    2.5
Elephants (to be recaptured)               1.8                    0.9                      Animal Power - for timber extraction                        6.7                     7.1
7.1                    4.4
Current Liabilities                                                                        Current Assets
Taxation                                  38.8                   31.3                      Logs and Timber                                 218.1                   213.3
General Provident Fund                     0.8                     1.0                     Other Products                                    6.0                     4.7
Trade Creditors                           35.7                   48.2                      Inventories                                      19.5                    26.9
Other Creditors                            3.4                     1.3                     Trade Debtors                                    33.4                    36.1
- 8.7                  81.8            Advances                                         54.7                    49.9
Deposits                                        15.3                    15.5
Other Debtors                                    7.5                     7.2
Cash                                              1.6    356.1            1.5    355.1
Suspense Account (Credit)                           7.7                     7.9            Suspense Account (Debit)3/                                 20.0                    19.5         |
471.0                  484.5                                                                      471.0                   484.5
A
1/ Audit of accounts yet to be completed for both years.
2/ Sawmills and Workshops.
3/  Includes misappropriation under investigation K372,000 in 1971,and K545,OOQ in 1972.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BURNA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Road Construction
Introduction
1.        Extensive road development is required to implement the proposed
Project. Improvement of certain existing access roads is needed as rapidly
as possible. Also, some mileage of new construction is reciuired to open up
inaccessible areas. In both cases, a high standard road is required to
expedite movement of logs. In addition, feeder roads are required, con-
structed on a low-cost seasonal basis, to provide truck access to the
immediate extraction areas. This Annex outlines the proposed road construc-
tion and maintenance program, the organization to implement it, the techniques
required, and the costs to be incurred.
General
2.        In Burma, the road system is generally of low standard, with only
a skeleton network of main highways which are truly all-weather roads. Once
off these highways, the local access roads are without exception poorly
constructed and inadequately maintained. Most work on these roads is done
by hand labor, as resources of construction machinery are limited. Culverts
and bridges are installed where required, except when a wide river crossing
is encountered. In such cases, which occur frequently, traffic must ford
the river, with consequent restrictions during high water. In rare cases
such low-level crossings are improved with concrete slab or rock rip-rap
work.
3.        Despite the shortcomings of such a system, it has sufficed for the
needs of the area. There are very few passenger cars in use, but trucks
carrying farm produce, and buses serving outlying villages provide a steady
flow of traffic. Travel times are long, and breakdowns and delays are
frequent, but such a situation is generally accepted. Up until now, the
problem of transporting teak logs from the forest has been solved by floating
the dry logs down the numerous rivers and streams. This is usually seasonal,
as many streams dry up for long periods each year. But teak extraction is
moving further back from the larger rivers, and so river transportation is
becoming more difficult, and in many areas impossible. Hauling by truck
is therefore the only alternative, and is in any case necessary for trans-
portation of green teak and other hardwoods which cannot be floated. A
rapid increase in production of these latter products is contemplated.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The proposed Project, for the above reasons, is heavily dependent
on suitable road development into proposed extraction areas. To ensure that
such development is logical and economic, the long-term sequence of cutting
areas has been studied, and road routes selected accordingly.
5.        Roads required may be classified into three categories:
(a) Skid Roads. Required for mechanical skidding of logs to
an assembly area for loading onto truck.
(b) Feeder Roads. Short-term truck haul roads, constructed into
the extraction areas at an intensity sufficient to keep
skidding distances short. Generally, skidding should not
exceed one-half to three-quarter mile. The majority of
feeder roads will be used for one season only.
(c) Access Roads. These are main haul roads, normally serving
several extraction areas and having a useful life of
many years.
6.        Skid tracks are considered to be an integral part of the extraction
operation, and so would be constructed with extraction machinery (See Annex 7).
7.        The feeder roads, because of their short-term use, are constructed
as cheaply as possible. Since only a few loads of logs are hauled over it,
transportation savings arising from a higher class road do not justify the
increased cost of construction. The feeder road is therefore constructed
in the dry season, for log haul that same season, so that every economy
can be achieved. Normally, extensive use is made of dry river beds for
this purpose.
8.        The access roads, over which a high volume of logs will be hauled,
for long distances and for many years, can with justification be constructed
to high standard. It is most important that they should permit efficient
operation of logging trucks, with resulting economies in haul costs. Less
Important, in most cases, is that they should be useable year-round. The
reason for this is that, of necessity, truck haul over the feeder roads
must be in dry season, and haul at this time is usually made to a depot
area from which the logs are subsequently re-loaded and hauled to local
sawmills, rafting areas, or even to Rangoon. To balance the seasonal truck
haul operations, the depot must usually be located approximately mid-way
to the eventual destination of the logs. Thus haul on much of the main
access roads is wet weather only. Bridging of large rivers is not required
as the wet weather log depots are established so as to eliminate large
river crossings during the rainy season. Although the access roads will
be constructed to high standards of alignment and with gravelled surfaces,
they are not strictly an all-weather roads as there may be occasional river
crossings (low-level) not bridged.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Responsibility for Road Program
9.        Since construction contractors are non-existent in Burma, road
work must be performed by a government agency. The choice for construction
agency is limited to TC or CC. After field study and discussions with both
TC and CC, and for the following reasons, it is strongly recommended that
TC, through the Project unit, should handle all its own road requirements.
(a)  the success of the Project depends entirely upon roads
being built on schedule, and construction should be under
direct project control;
(b)  a large amount of equipment is required by TC to construct
feeder roads at the start of each extraction season. This
equipment could be used for the balance of the year on main
access road construction; and
(c)  there should be flexibility between the road construction
and timber extraction operations regarding road scheduling
and layout. This is possible within one organization; it
is more difficult between two.
Since the access roads are not strictly 'all weather' roads, entrusting
such road work to TC should not be in conflict with CC's existing preserve.
However, some of the roads requiring upgrading are CC roads, and although
CC mav elect to perform the work on such roads themselves, provision is made
in Project Costs assuming TC would undertake such work.
Organization
10.       The basic Project Unit organization consists of HQ at Prome, with
five field Extraction Agencies (see Chart 4). Because of the special needs
of the road program, however, the road construction organization would
initially consist of only four construction units working under direct
supervision of the road construction engineer at the Prome HQ. At the
end of five years, the road program rapidly decreases, and the work force
will then be reduced to two construction units. These units will be based
geographically as follows:
Service
Year 1-5        Agencies       Year 6-10
Unit 1                    Pakokku         Pakokku )       Pakokku
2                    Thayet          Thayet  )
3                    Prome           Prome, Zigon)  Prome
4                    Tharrawaddy    Tharrawaddy )



ANNEX 6
Page 4
The Agencies indicated in the above table define very loosely the areas
of operation of each unit.  Each unit would consist of sub-units as follows:
Sub-unit A     -    Road survey
B     -    Grade construction
C     -    Surfacing
D     -    Drainage structures
E     -    Road maintenance
The equipment and personnel make-up of each sub-unit are given in Tables 1
and 3 respectively and individual machine costs in Table 2. Mechanical
support for the construction units would be provided by the Agency based
workshops, which would also look after the extraction and log haul equipment.
Personnel and Training
11.       It is important that the road construction engineer position be
filled by an internationally recruited specialist with extensive experience
in large scale road construction work. All other personnel would be re-
cruited from within the TC or elsewhere in Burma. The senior positions
should be filled by graduate civil engineers. These posts include an under-
study to the specialist as manager, and four road engineers required to
head the construction units, and also the foremen or surveyors in charge
of the sub-units. Engineering graduates are abundant in Burma, with the
university producing more than there are jobs available. It should,
therefore, be possible to select top calibre people with excellent
theoretical training. Practical training as outlined in para 12 would
be given during the first year.
12.       Due to the time-lapse required to obtain construction machinery,
no roads would be constructed in the first year except possibly some feeder
roads using existing TC equipment. However, the road construction engineer
must set up his work procedures and training programs early, so that the
key personnel could be hired and trained in Year 1. Training can be
mainly practical using existing TC equipment, and experienced demonstrators
from within and outside Burma.
13.       It would be possible to obtain experienced machine operators
from within TC and elsewhere in Burma. However, a training program must
be continued throughout the Project period to improve skills and efficiency.
There is no reason to believe that there would be any great problems in
obtaining competent operators, but it would be necessary to instruct them
in the techniques of earthmoving, and other construction procedures.
14.       A road construction field complement of 356 men is projected
during the initial five years of the Project, as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Road engineers       -    4
Foremen              -   16
Surveyors            -   20
Operators            -   80
Drivers              -  104
Helpers              -   28
Workmen              -  104
Total              356
15.       It is proposed to put a senior operator and junior operator with
each machine, instead of the traditional operator and helper. The machines
will normally work one 10-hour shift per day. It is believed that this
arrangement would provide:
(a) the best training for junior operators; and
(b) optimum utilization of the machine, since operator
fatigue would be less, and the machine can be worked
without interruption for rest or meal breaks.
16.       An important aspect of all training, both for senior personnel
and machine operators, is that this project should turn out persons of
ability for future use throughout the TC.
Road Program
17.       The proposed road construction and improvement program is based
on TC's ground reconnaisance using maps and aerial photographs. Distances
were calculated by measuring proposed alignments on one inch to four mile
and one inch to two mile maps. The appraisal mission was able to check
to their satisfaction each proposed access road from the air and selected
ones on the ground. The tentative road construction program is shown
in Table 4 and the time table for construction in Table 5. Location
of road routes, in relation to extraction areas, are indicated on
Map IBRD 10768.
18.       Initially, this program requires intensive construction of new
roads and upgrading of existing road to provide rapid impact on haul costs.
Later, when this need has been satisfied, the emphasis moves towards an
increased feeder road program in accordance with increased extraction
activities.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
19.       In summary, the program is as follows:
Year 1-5     Year 6-10    Total
Access Roads
New read               165            -          165 miles
WP6'L.&U.L11g          270           127         397 miles
Feeder Roads
New Roads and
Upgrading         1,800         2,380       4,180 miles
20.       The road engineers specialist together with the Project Director
must review this schedule prior to starting construction, and modify the
program if necessary. At that time a closer inspection of the specific
road routes, together with the effect of any other recent developments,
would result in a completely realistic program. Layout and design would
proceed as the Project progresses.
Road Standards
21.       Road standards and specifications are shown in Table 6.  Basic
requirements are:
(a) Access Roads
Grade width          24'
Gravelled width      12'
Maximum grades        6% adverse
10% favorable
Structures (loading) AASHO - H20 - S16
(b) Feeder Roads
Grade width          12' minimum
Gravelling           nil
Maximum grades       10% adverse
12% favorable
22.       The AASHO-H20-S16 1/ design loading for structures fits closely
the actual loading of the proposed logging trucks. This loading is currently
adopted by the CC for their highway bridge designs. The proposed road
1/   American Association of State Highway Officials - Standard loading for
36 ton G.V.W. vehicle (truck and trailer). This standard is used in
many countries, including Burma, for structural design.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
standards ensure good drainage, important in the erosion-prone soils of
the Project area.
Work-Loads
23.       It is assumed that all construction units would operate 10 hours
a day, 200 days per year. Working days would average 20 per month during
the dry season, but only 10 days per month during the wet season. See
breakdown in Table 5.
Road Survey
24.       Each of the four road survey units consists of two surveyors, four
helpers and a driver, equipped with a four wheel drive vehicle for transporta-
tion. In the initial years of the project, each unit would be required to
set out about 27 miles of extraction road and 110 miles of feeder road
annually.
25.       Access Roads.  A full instrument survey must be made of all pro-
posed access roads to ensure a high standard of alignment and to permit
earthwork computation. The survey must be preceded by a general reconnais-
sance to establish the basic route. This should be carried out with all
assistance available, such as air photographs and topograhic maps. Survey
work should preferably be carried out one year ahead of construction,
especially where developed land is crossed. It is estimated that about
six days crew time per mile will be required for this survey. Location
must consider the following factors:
-    extraction areas to be served by the road;
-    existence of favorable soil conditions for road
construction and proximity to gravel or laterite
deposits for surfacing;
-    avoidance of soil erosion and disturbance to river
flows;
-    minimization of drainge problems;
-    minimization of earthwork and avoidance of heavy
right-of-way clearing; and
-    optimization of alignment.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
26.       Feeder Roads.  These would be constructed early in the dry season,
starting in October. Survey work should start a month or two ahead of
construction if access allows. Because of the short-term value of these
roads, only a quick survey is necessary. Plans of the proposed extraction
areas should be examined, and with the assistance of the local extraction
foreman a tentative feeder layout should be made. This is then laid out in
the field, with modifications where necessary. The location is simply
blazed or flagged for the construction crew, and little or no instrument
work is required. Two to three miles of layout per day should be possible.
Subgrade Construction
27.       Access Roads.  Function of the subgrade unit consists of clearing
and grubbing of right-of-way vegetation, followed by earhtwork movement to
form the road grade. Clearing and grubbing would only be involved to any
extent where new road is built, or where sections of existing road are
realigned. Any trees of merchantable size and quality within the right-
of-way would be felled by power saw, and the resulting logs decked for later
recovery by extraction personnel. The grubbing phase then requires removal
of all organic overburden within the right-of-way. This material would be
bulldozed to the lower side and buried, or in flat country could be pushed
into winrows along each side of the right-of-way. In the latter case, due
regard must be paid to preserve a proper drainage pattern. If large
quantities of brush occur, this could be pushed into piles for later burning.
For all of the methods used, a clean appearance following the grubbing phase
is important.
28.       Earthwork movement is by conventional bulldozing techniques.
Scraper equipment is not proposed because no long earth movements are
contemplated. A surveyor is included in the survey crew to lay out road
alignment following the grubbing phase. In flat country, center-line stakes,
plus occasional grade stakes would suffice to indicate to operators the
required construction. In steeper country, the surveyor must run a center-
line profile, carry out an earthwork design, and set proper slope stakes.
29.       The main equipment in each construction unit consists of two
heavy bulldozers (270 hp), one of which is equipped with a ripper attach-
ment, plus a lighter bulldozer (140 hp) and a motor grader. The heavy
dozers would perform the grubbing and primary earthwork. The light dozer
would clean up the finished grade and complete the ditching, and the grader
would carry out final shaping. No compaction equipment is included in this
unit, but for any important fill sections the grid roller from the surfacing
unit should be used. In most cases, compaction by trucks during the
surfacing phase will be sufficient.
30.       During the initial year of the Project, each subgrade unit will be
required to construct or reconstruct an average of 27 miles of extraction
road per year. Generally, terrain on the access road routes is not difficult,
and it is estimated earthwork volumes should average no more than 7,000 -
10,000 cu yds/mile. Assuming a daily production per machine of 1,000 cu yds,
total grade production on new road should require about 6 unit days per mile



ANNEX 6
Page 9
constructed. On roads being reconstructed, it is estimated that the original
road would have very little residual value and that only slightly better
production would be realized than on new road construction.
31.       Feeder Roads.  Feeder roads would be constructed at the beginning
of each dry season, ready for extraction work. Normally, construction
would take place during the period October-December, and each construction
unit would be required to build about 110 miles per year. Feeder roads
consist of a one-year dry season road for truck access. The easiest
construction route will be taken, often following along dry river beds.
All that is required is a flat route constructed to the blade width of
the dozer. Very fast production should be possible, and it is estimated
that each subgrade unit would be able to construct about two miles per day.
Surfacing
32.       Access Roads.  The mid-travel strip of the grade would be gravelled
to a minimum width of 12 feet. The normal procedure for surfacing would be
to haul river gravel, laterite, or broken rock to the grade, where it would
be spread with a small dozer. The top surface would then be worked with a
motor grader and grid-roller operating together to break down the material
into acceptable surfacing quality. In the case of very clean river gravel,
it may be necessary to mix some clay with the material to act as a binder.
The main problem in some areas is to find suitable material for surfacing.
Suitable river gravel is found in the upper reaches of most side rivers,
but in some areas large deposits are rare. Also, laterite occurs in scattered
deposits. In all areas, suitable material should be obtainable, and even
where this requires hauls of 20-30 miles it would still be more economical
than quarrying rock. Where good material is scarce, a sub-standard local
material such as fine gravel or sand could be used as a base course, and the
more costly select material used only as the top wearing course.
33.       Each surfacing unit comprises a front-end bucket loader, eight
tandem dump trucks, a small dozer for spreading and a grader and grid-
roller for surface preparation.
34.       Assuming 2,000 - 3,000 cu yds of compacted gravel required per
mile (10" - 15" depth), the unit should, under average haul conditions of
about five miles, be able to complete one mile in three tofour days. This
gives it some leeway over the subgrade unit production, but it would need
this because of wet weather problems in haul, plus frequent delays when
developing new pits.
35.       Feeder Roads.  No surfacing would be carried out on feeder roads.
However, if available, some of the surfacing unit equipment may be used on
feeder road construction.
Drainage Structures
36.       Drainage structures, comprising culverts and short-span bridges,
will not normally be constructed on feeder roads. However, situations occur



ANNEX 6
Page 10
where a temporary log bridge is required on a feeder road, and some time
has been allowed for the crew to carry out such work.
37.       On access roads, proper drainage is important and adequate
structures are essential. It is recommended that these be installed
after completi- of t1i,- subvrade.  The reason for this is that when built
after, they ca&A sw.             .o the actual length and elevation required.
If constructed prior to subgrade construction, problems frequently occur on
these aspects.
38.       The structure unit includes a small dozer to excavate and backfill
as required. It also includes a general duty truck for hauling supplies,
and a motorized concrete mixer. Besides the necessary operators and drivers,
it also includes 12 workmen for general labor work.
39.       In Burma, there is no widely accepted type of structure.  All
varieties exist - concrete, wood, steel girder and truss, many being
relics of war years.  However, because of the availability of sand and
gravel in all areas, and the low cost of cement (about K 200/ton), concrete
would be appropriate. For bridges, concrete abutments with wooden stringers
and deck would provide an economical structure. For culverts, concrete
box or pipe with concrete headwalls would be suitable. It is suggested
that each structure unit work on two or three adjacent structures simultan-
eously. Excavating and setting forms on one, pouring concrete on the next,
while stripping and finishing the third. In this way, optimum use is made
of equipment and men. It is estimated that on average, 2 - 3 culverts
per mile would be required, and one short bridge every three or four miles.
On this basis, the crew should be able to complete one mile in 7 - 8 working
days. Besides crew and equipment costs, a material cost of about K 6000/mile
is included. This is allocated roughly as follows:
Culvert 30'x4'x4'    Bridge 16' span
Concrete                                (12 c.y.)             (20 c.y.)
Cement (K 200/ton)                    3 tons - K   600   10 tons - K 2,000
Reinforced steel (K 1,400/ton)        1/2 ton- K   700   1-1/2
tons  - K 2,100
Lumber (K 450/ton)                           -             5 tons - K 2,250
Form work, nails, etc.                         K   200               K   650
K 1,500              K 7,000
Any bridges must be designed to the specified H20-S16 loading, but on short
spans this only requires a quite modest structure.
Road Maintenance
40.       The road maintenance crew consists of a motor grader, a general
purpose truck, and a crew of operators plus six workmen. The main function
of this unit is general road surface maintenance, plus manual cleaning of
ditches and drainage channels. Any structural maintenance must be done by



ANNEX 6
Page 11
the structural construction unit. Maintenance will only be carried out on
feeder roads with high traffic density. This unit will be engaged initially
on maintenance of existing roads. To these will be added the mileages of new
road when constructed.
Road Costs 1/
41.       The overall cost of road construction, broken down into main
components, is as follows:
Cost K/mile
Access Roads              Feeder
New        Upgraded            Roads
Road survey           2,650 (  3%)   1,290 (  2%)         180 (  4%)
Subgrade const.      25,500 ( 31%)  20,600 ( 30%)       3,990 ( 88%)
Surfacing            36,400 ( 44%)  34,000 ( 50%)         -      -
Drainage structs.   18,770 ( 22Z)  12,200 ( 18%)          480 (  8%)
Total           82,700 (100%)  68,100 (100%)       4,550 (100%)
Above costs are all-inclusive, and take into account a pro-rated component of
Project overhead costs.
42.       The cost for new construction is equivalent to US$17,200 per
mile, over 40% of which is for surfacing. This compares closely to typical
North American costs for this standard of road. The most vital aspect in
attaining these costs is to maintain the programmed production. If there
are slowdowns due to lack of machine parts, poor operators, or inadquate
supervision, then the cost per mile would increase dramatically. With an
efficient Project organization, these problems should not occur. More
detailed breakdown of these costs are provided in Tables 7 and 8.
1/   All cost figures quoted here exclude both physical and price
contingencies.






BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                          Table I
Schedule of Equilaeoc RequiremeOt5
Total                               Total      Total Year
'JOl          1 1  2   3   4   5    Y,. 1-t   6    7    8    9    10       r   -                   Maximum Operating       Operating
UNIT IA (Road Survey)          F     L                             _       _     _     _     _      _                            hours per-rear          Cost X/HR.
Lx6 Pickup                20.2    6.1  1              1R        2                  1R               1          3                  1000
UNIT IB (Grade Const.                                                                                                                 2000              22.82   2176
Tractor 270 hp/Ripper         662.7   69.4       1                 1             1R                     1         2
/Winch         453.1   68.0       1                  1             IR                    1          2                     n               2239   2 170
140 hp/Wirch         262.6   39.4       1                  1             1R                    1          2                                     13 8.43    9.57
Motor Grsder 100 hp           129.9   19.5       1                 1                   1               1                             2                    57    9.71
TruFik - T Gen. Duty           657 13.7          1                 1        12R                                                        100               2.47    7.71
- 4xL Pickup            20.2    6.1 1              12R      2                   1R               1          3                                     1.66    6.80
UNIT 1C (Su: facing)                                                                                                                                    1  -48
!ucket Loader 170 hp          267.0   40.0       1                 1             1R                     1          2                  2000
Motor rradev 100 hp           129.9   19.5       1                 1                   1R               1          2                    It           |   8.       9.57
Skid-er 120 hp               166.8   21.7        1                 1             12                     1         2                     "               10.26    9.85
Grid Roller 6 T               51.9    7.8       1                 1             IR                     1          2                    "1           I     .56    0.73
Tractor 75 hp/Winch          139.5   20.9        1                 1             1R                     1          2                                          7.18    6.o0
Trucks, Tipper 10c.y.         108.2   32.        8                 8        8R                          8          16                 1500               5. 8     9.43
Truck, 4x4 Pickup              20.2    6.1 1             1R        2                   1R               1          3                  1000               1.6    6.80
UNIr 1D (Structures)                                               I
T-ractor 60 hp/Wiinch          77.0   11.6       1                 1                                    0          1                  100o                6.00    3.93
Conc. Mixe- 3/4 c.y.           12.0    1.8       1                 1                                    0         1                     n                1.00    6.75
Truck Gen. Duty 6T            45.7   13.7        1                 1        1R                          1          2      '                              2.57    7.71
oo 4x4 Pickup              20.2    6.1  1             1R        2                  1R               1          3                                 I   1.66    6.80
UNRIT  E (Maintenance)
Rotor Grader 100 hp          129.9   19.         1                 1                   lR               1          2                  2000               8.40    9.57
Truck 6T  Gen. Duty            45.7   13.7       1                 1        1R                          1          2                  1000                2.5'    7.71
loc Pickup              20.2    6.1 1              1R        2                  1R               1          3                  1000                1.46    6.80
UNIT 2A (Road SuJrvey'                AS UhIT 1A YEAR 1-5
TUNIT -3A                    "                                     YEAR 1-10
JNIT 4A                                           YEAR 1-5                                                                           NOTE:
1)  F - oreigo Exchange
UNIT 2B (Const.)                      AS UNIT 11 YEAR 1-5                                                                              1   - Locrl Currency.
UNIT 3B    n                =- = n  -                  yEAR 1-10
URIT 6                                      n     YEAR 1-5                                                                           2)  Costs for project include
an initial spare parts
lorry 2r (SlflrfScng)                 A3 TJ5f  10 YEAR 1-.5      I                                                                        allocation equal to 20%
NITT PC,                              AS UNIT -  YEAR 1-10                                                                                of  unit price.  This is
_UNIT 4-C                                                          YEAR n1S                                                               apolied only for original
equipnent, and is not
UNIT 2D (Structures)                  AS UNIT 1D YEAR 1-5                                                                                 m added at time of replace-
UNIT 3D                                    n                       YEAR 1-10                                                              meot.
UNIT 60  II  Year 1-5                                                               3)  In above table, "R"
i                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~denotes replacement
UNIT 2E (Maint.)                      AS UNTT 1E YEAR 1-5                                                                                 demachine.
UNIT 3E    "YEA  1-10
GRIT SE                                           YEAR 1-5                                                                            4)  For workshop and adminis-
traction vehicles, see
Appendix.
SUMARY OF ROAD GONSTRUCTION EQIuNENT REQUIREMENTS
1       2         3        4       5       1-5     6       7        8      9       10       6-10        1-10
Tractor 270hp/Ripper                    4                                 4                2                                2           6
"    270hp,Winch                    4                                  6               2                                2           6
n    l40hp/Winch                    4                                  4               2                                 2          6
n     75hp/n                        4                                  4               2                                2           6
n     40hp/                         4                                  4                                                -           4
Motor Grader lOOhp                      12                                12                       6                        6           18
Skidder       120hp                    4                                  4               2                                 2           6
Grid Roller   61                      4                                  4               2                                 2           6
Loader, BRcket 170 hp                  4                                  4               2                                 2           6
Concrete Mixer 3/4 c.y.                4                                  4                                                 -           4
Trucks, Tipper 10 c.y.                  32                                32       16                                       16          L8
n   Gen. Duty  6T                    12                                 12       6                                       6           18
4x4 Pickup              20                         20               40                      10                       10          50



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Basic Equipment Costs
CAPITAL COSTS                               OPERATG  OSTS
'000 US$        000 Kvats                               Kvats/Hr
00-
mu @   H St M        >      g    U  p a 4'  H                 'cdo            a hPerating
i  x  X c) ;1 O 8 Eq [2 rl o ; ti- eg0                                                    Life
A                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Hours )
F   F t F i  F  '  L t   -   L    L  | F    L  F           F    L      F     L   Total         Machine   Tires
TRACTORS
270 HP + A.Dozer + Winch    86.9 7.3 94.2 63.lj15| 65.01521.J  16.64 2.001 -        | 2.00 20.39L3.06'22.39121.701809           10,000
+ Ripper   b7.8 6.4 96.2  62.7l51 69.4 532.1 16.6482.00I  -         2.00 20.b213.12l22.82 1l.76h44 58
140 HP + A.Dozer + Winch    50.8 3.814.6 262.6151 39.4 302.0  7.52'1.501  _          1.5011.6211.77113.32 l0.79i24.11
75 HP     "         "      26.8 2.2 29.0 139.5 151 20.9 160.4  4.1610.90f -         o0.90  6.2810.98i 7.18  6.00113.18           ,,
40 HP                      14.5 1.5 16.01 77.0115111.6  80.6  2.9010.501 -          0-50i 3.50 0.531 4.0j 3.931 7.93 1
SKIDDER 
26.0o4.1 30.1 144.6l15,21.7|166.5  6.101.2014.701 1.90 1.20        46   9,b; 2009                  10,000    3,000
GRID ROLLER                                          ,                                ' 
*1                              I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10,000 
GRID2' ROLLER                93 510.8 51.9 151' 7.51 59.7   -  10.50  -  I -    -   1.56 0.231 1.56  0.73  2.29
IVTOR GRADER                           I     I1,0                                                                                             ,0
100 HP                       23.0 4.0 127.0 129.9 11519.5 149.4  6.4011.30i3.20.1.28 1.30  3.900.59  8.09.57 |17.974,5
1                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~10,000    3,000
1.P   3 c.y. Bucket     48.9 6.6155.51267.015184o.0 307.0  9.92,1.8014.7011.90'1.b0  8.0111.20 14.51 L4.62 29.33
TRUCKS 
DTC  -S10 c.y.                 19.0i3.5 225:108.2 230 32.5 140.7  6.4011.00 2.60 1.05, -    3.2510.98  5.85| 9.3 15.28             6,000    2,0
General Duty - 6-1/2 T             -         547 i30 13.7  59.4  6.000.80 1.20 0.50   -   1-370.411 2.57  7.71 10.28             ,         ,000
Pick-up - 8xl6                 _ | -  8.21  20.2 |30| 6.1  26.3  5.701o060.50 0.32  -   o.66'o.18  1.46  6.o0  8.26              3,500    1,000
NOTES
1.   F - denotes foreign exchange. L - local carrency.
2.   Operating costs based on:
Diesel fuel   K 1.60/gallon
Petroleum     K 2.&5/gallon                                                                                                                 O x
Oil           K 7.80/gallon
Grease        K 1.30/lb
3.  Repair costs include parts costs only. Mechanic labour included elsewhere in Workshop costs.
4.   Tires.  Original tires included in capital cost.  Cost of all replacement tires calculated
as operating cost spread over life of machine.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Field Personnel - Annual Labor Costs
/UNIT A       UNIT B         UNIT C         UNIT D        UNIT E
/Month     (SURVEY)       (CONST.)      (SURFACING)   (STRUCTURES) (MAINTENANCE)           TOTAL
K7/r         K/Yr           K/Yr           K/Yr          K/Yr
Foreman      i440       -      -     1    5,280    1    5,280    1    5,280    1    5,280
Surveyor      440       2   10,560   1    5,280    1    5,280    1    5,280    -
Operator      330       -      -     8   31,680    8   31,660    2    7,920    2    7,920
Helper        220       4   10,560   1    2,640    1    2,640    1    2,640    -         -
Driver 1      150       1    1,800   2    3,600    1    1,800    2    3,600    4    7,200
Driver 2      330       -      -     -       -     16   63,360    -       -       -      -
Workman       110       -      -      4    5,280    4    5,280   12   15,840    6    7,920
7   22,920  17   53,760   32  115,320  119   40,560   13   26,320
Workmens
Compensation  10%            2,292         5,376        11,532          4,056          2,832
Field
Allowance     15%            3,438         8,o64        17,300          6,084          4,248
Housing
Allowance   K150/Yr          1,050         2,550          4,800         2,850          1,950
Uniform    i
Cost        !K 64/Yr           448         1,088          2,048         1,216            832
TOTAL
PER UNIT-/              7   30,150  17   70,840   32  151,000   19   54,770   13   38,180
ALL11t                       (4)           (4)           (4)            (4)              }
Yr. 2-5*  Per Year  28  120,600  68  283,360  128  604,000   76  219,080   52  l52,Tqo   352   1,3T9,T760
ALL UNITS                    (2)           (2)           (2)             (2)            (2)
YTr-.-To  Per Year  14   60,300  34  141,680   64  302,000   38  109,5W0   26   76,360   176          689,880
*  Year 1- Part Cost only.
1/ Totals rounded off.
W 0"



BURMA                             ANNEX 6
Table 4
FORESTRY PROJECT
Index of Basic Road Requirements for Teak and
Hardwood Extraction 1974-1984
Division  Index           Road            Miles       Present                   Work
16.  |                                      Conditionj Required
YAW.       1       Pakokku - Pyinchaung   30         CC Tarred road - many Strengthen b,idges
wide river crossings   to H20-s16 loading
2      Pyinchaung - Pauk       14         Very poor dirt road    Reconrtruct
CC.
3      Pauk - Kyawkhtu         30         Poor dirt road. CC.   Upgrade
f 4   , Pauk - Mawle           70         Dirt road.  CC.       ; 
F       Feeder Roads           765                               Required - v-rious
locations.
MINBU      10      Minbu - Padein         36         Dirt road.              50% new road
50% reconstrzction
11      Padein - Paaing        24         Dirt road.             Reconstruct
F       Feeder Roads           530                               Required - various
locations.
THAYET     20    jThayet - Mindon         42         CC. Good tarred road   Strengthen bridges.
21     Mindon - Ngangya        26                                Construct new road.
Mindon - Pemyaw        14
23     Yegyanzin - Shandatkyi 25                                      n
i F    ' Feeder Roads            600                               Required - various
Al |hbd                28            Gravel road          locations
AUNGLAN    30      Aunglan - Shwebandaw   28         CC Gravel road          Upgrading
31      Shwebandaw - Chingon   14         Dirt road
32      Kyaukpadaung - Thanbulal2              '                     fn
33     Thanbula - Kangyaung   27             'n                   Reconstruct
F       Feeder Roads           530                               Required - various
_ _   _ _  _  _   _  _   _   _                                     locations
PROMF      40     Paungde - Pauktaw      12         Poor gravel road        Upgrading
41      Pauktaw - Gyobinaing   8                                      n
, 42   ,IGyobinaing - Sinzwe    12        Dirt road              Reconstruction
t 43    Sinzwe - Banwebin      19      I
, 44    4      - Kywama        8                                     n
45    i        - Nyaungwin     22         No road                New construction
46      Pauktaw - Letpangon    16         Dirt road              Upgrading
47      Paukkaung - Nyaungwin  16         CC. tarred road         Bridge work only
48    ! t         - Namyawgyi, 32         18 miles dirt road   I Reconstruct 18 miles
New Road 14 miles
F       Feeder Roads           555                               Required - various
I__ _ _ _  i____  I___________________ _I    locations
ZIGON      50      Zigon - Bawbin         14         Gravel roed             Upgrading
51      Bawbin - Sangyi        14         Dirt road              Reconstruct
52        '  -Tuchaung         8                                     ,
F       Feeder Roads          | 655                               Required - various
-________________ -___________j_________                                   locations
THARRAWADDY 60    Minhla - Seinkanlan  .3            Gravel road             Upgrading
61      Seinkanlan - Banbwegor 8          Dirt road              Reconstruct
62      Banbwegon - Taungyaunk 16         No road                New Construction
63         "      - Pangabin   12         Poor road              Reconstruct
F       Feeder Roads          1365                                Required - various
_ _ _   _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  locations
INSEIN     70      Palon - Sintesakan     10         Gravel road             Upgrading
71     Sintesakan - Ngaywe    28          No road               iNew Construction
F       Feeder Roads           180                               Required - various
I________                                                          locations
TOTAL                  165        New Construction
397        Upgrading
4180       Feeder Roads



BURMA
FO.RESTRY PROJ.ECT
Sedleof Cons. tr-ctina
TOtAL3          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Access Rosd.                 Feede  5oads
R-Fod T.deoI   11                           JF   11         1 2      0         3                         F           F                                             F        F ~    F            Year  1-56-10              T       To           1-5       6-10
Miles                           12      10              6      10         36      110      316      1       0 3        6           0          10 1                      75      275                         -70                             450   1l',17
2,1  32  I        681,     33400 2 
6    2 16 16    116             III1 14   12          16       3                                                                                              1       -4                               5 
3                          62   64    F    43         15  F~~~~~~~1  i3   30    F44 1               F     3    0      F     1    2 F               3          '             
6                       4061         Fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 4(0626IP F .1  'I .TF 621 KI ~   45                'I)                                                                                         -           41       -          450        -)
1  101 1        2" -    I       04   14107 01725130
Totn1 Mlilen   N                                       24                     59                60                22                 -                                                                            1 -5 -          I
Oecontroeted         -75273                                                                                                                  5-                         -        -                                     270      12                    _
-'. Fedr-0                                                      0050                                                 3 0335                                              50      50E                              [____                                ,6
Notes
1.  This table indi-ates  -shbdulno  oF -1i   Mnt-ti- pc has-  (i.e. e-nth-ok,  -Fr-isng nod Ornin-ge sht,bt ...    S ...ey work ,ill --Issly take place 1 y-a  ahead Of  cedl .aFod  asi.tn.erc  oill be sheduled oneist-ng roa ds
as 001 no on rnads  -or-ntrcd by this schedole.
2.  For id-thiti-tl- of roadn,  -e i.dn (Tnsle 4k).
3.   osCboct-i-s yea  b-eokd-e            Month          -   April   May   Joan   July   Aog-t   Sept-cn4-    Oshthe    Nov-ser   D-onbnr   Jnoscar    Feorisoy   MIach                      '100A1
Wo-king i           1.  21    213                    1           10           15         20)          20         20)          20         20          200
65, days                                       55 da.y                           60 days
4.  F-dnr ocuds ace'saly built Otrio         Der --     Aene   t nart of dry  ech
5.  Osads 1, 20 aBS 47, rquiri.g bridge nok only, aot chosl  in abov  s-hndule.



ANNEX 6
Table 6
ROAD S,ECTIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS
TYPICAL SECTION
FLAT   TERRAIN                     Access Road                              ditch  drained
frequently by
run- out channels
2                     2
*  '              I   | ~~~~~~~I I       .I 
-t    12 ---- -6                461 12'          
TYPICAL SECTION
SIDEH  i-L             Access Road
SPECIFICATIONS
STRU.CTURAL LOADING                      IiO  H 20-S16
SURFACING DEPTH ( minimum )8", 
GRADES  ( maximum )  Favourable              10 %                         12 %
Adverse               6 %                         10 %
CURVATURE         (minimnum )10 degrees                                   0 degrees
RIGHT-OF-WAY         minimum             -  60'
SUPEREBI.EVATION  (30 m.p.h. )  Degree curve  Superelevation-
under 5            Nil
6-7            1 inLO
8-9                  30
over 10                20 max.
NOTE: Above specifications are desirable minimum requirements,
but may be reduced in difficult terrain conditions.



BURMX
FORESTRY PROJECT
Cost Suosary by Job Phases
('000 K)
Equdpment             Equipment              Labour                Tools &              Supplies                 Total Basic               Over  ad                         Total
Q&Dtt.1      ~       0-  _t___T-t--_-__'______
Year      1-5 C      6-10               6b-IO           1-5         6-10      An1-5   6-1O        1-5     6-10                     Ccst_   610         1-5       6-10           1             6-10         1-10
PHASE_2                        176                                5o                                                                                                                                 2039.
Road Survey         F        177.6      4G,4       14.0        1                        _        76.8    38.-.                                268.4          93.8        11.9        3.           280.3           97.7        378.0
L       (53.6j    (12.2)   (11.2)        (73.0)    (563.2)    (302.0)   (31.6)   (5.8)                                 (769.6)        (393.0)    (100.6)    (57.9)          (870.2)       (450.9)      (1321.1)
Grade Const.        F       6676.4    2748.4    1077 a       1379.0         _           _       154.0    48.2                                7923.2        4175.6       350.6      l71.6         8273.8        4347.2       12621.0
L     (1061.6)   (432.2)  (2144.8)   (1431.0)   (1232.8)    (708.0)   (31.6)   (7.2)                                    (6470.8)      (2578.4)    (584.4)   (379.6)         (5055.2)      (2958.0)      (8013.2)
Surfacing           F       7851.6    3237.8    1200.0       1554.0 o                   _        57.6    28.8                                9109.2        4820.6       403.1      198.1         9512.3        5018.7       14531.0
L     (1828.8)   (752.0)  (3037.6)   (2063.0)   (2536.0)   (1510.0)    (8.8)   (6.4)                                   (7411.2)       (4329.4)    (968.8)   (637.4)         (8380.0)      (4966.8)    (13346.8)
Structures          F        824.0     131.8       46.8        91.0         -           -        96.4    48.2       320.0       200.0        1287.2         471.0        57.0       19.6         1344.2         490.4         1834.6
L      (183.6)    (39.6)   (383.2)    (239.0)    (936.8)    (548.0)   (14.4)   (7.2)   (2880.0)   (1800.0)              (4398.0)      (2633.8)    (574.9)   (387.8)         (4972.9)      (3021.6)      (7994.5)
Road Maintenance   F        1020.4      391.6     189.2       209.0         _           -        19.2      9.6                               12?8.8         610.2        54.4       25.0         1283.2         635.2        1918.4
L      (212.8)    (78.6)   (551.2)    (346.o)    (215.2)    (127.0)    (2.8)   (1.6)                                     (982.0)       (553.0)    (128.3)    (81.3)         (1110.3)       (634.3)      (1744.6)
19,816.8      10, l1.2       877.0      418.0       20,693.8      10,589.2       31,283.0
(18,031.6)   (10,487.6)   (2357.0)  (1544.0)         20,388.6)   (12,031.6)   (32,6?0.2)
./ Overhead - Administration plus workshop costa
Pro-rated between job phases
3I  F - Foreign Exchange
L - Local Currency



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Cost S-nmnry by Road Class
Access Roads                                                              Feeder Roads
Miles              Cost K'000                   K/Mile                      Miles                 Cost K'000                  K/Mile
Phase                                _  _  _   _  _   __t_          _   _  _  _   _  _   _    __6_10
Yr.___ _  1    |6-10      1-5     6-10   Tot.       1-5     6-10      Tot.      1-5  2 6-10  '  Tat.   1-5 6T10 ioTo-t1-5                  6-10    Tot.
Road           New    165    -    165    434        -        434    2,630      -       2,630  1I8^O   2.380   4.180        316     439     755      176     184      181
Survey      Rec.   315    82   397    400       110       510    1,270    1.340    1,290                                                                                .
Grade          New    165    -    165  4;200        -      4,200   25,500      -      25,500   1,800   2.380   4,180   3,666   4,583   8,249   2,040   1,930   1,980
Const.     Rec.   270   127   397  5,463    2,722    8,185   20,230   21,430   20,600                         _
Surfacing      New    165    -    165  6,000        -      6,000   36,400      -      36,400   1,800   2,380   4,180   3,000   5,400   8,400   1,670   2,270   2,010
Rec.   270   127   397  8,892    4,586   13,478   32,900   36,100   34,000                         _                         _                        _
Structures     New    165    -    165  3,000        -      3,000   18,180      -      18,180   1,800   2,380   4,180   1,000   1,000   2,000        560      420     480
Rec.   215   182   397  2,317    2,512    4,829   10,800   13,800   12,200                                                 ,                               .
Total          New                 165                    13,634                      82,600                    4,180                    19,004                    4,550
Construction   Rec.                397                    27,002                      68,ooo 0
Road            _       -     _     _   2,394    1,270    3,664        _        _        _
Maintenance
Note:  Costs shown include Foreign Exchange and Local Expenditures.
Also includes administration and workshop overheads
O 0



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Timber Extraction
Introduction
1.        A substantial input of new logging and transportation equipment
is required to extract the volume of log production proposed in this
Project. This Annex describes the timber extraction program in the Project
area, the method of operating, the organization needed to implement it,
the capital and operating cost requirements and the mechanical workshop
facilities. Road construction other than skid-tracks is dealt with
in Annex 6.
Background
2.        Before the mid-1950's the traditional method of extraction in-
volved felling with handsaws, skidding with animal power and transportatiQn
by river. During World War II, elephant numbers dropped from about 6,500
to 3,500; efforts to build up to the pre-war level were unsuccessful so
machines were introduced in 1954/55. After extraction, teak logs are
floated down the forest creeks and main rivers to the sawmills located in
Mandalay, Rangoon, Toungoo and Moulmein. River floating is the main mode
of transport for teak and accounted for 82% of the tonnage in 1970/71.
Hardwood logs are transported by road (60%), rail (22%) and river (18%).
Today, 60% of TC's equipment is in "fair or poor" condition (see Annex 2,
para 19); 34% is over five years old; and, over 50% of the equipment is
out of action due to age, poor operation and maintenance and lack of appro-
priate spares. Apart from the poor state of existing equipment there are
other reasons why TC is unable to extract the country's AAC:
-    difficult security situation;
-    lack of equipment to construct roads into presently
inaccessible, high quality forests;
-    lack of skidding and log handling equipment;
-    unsuitable log transport equipment;
-    inadequate preventative maintenance and repair
facilities;
-    restriction of log haulage operations to about 110 days
a year during the dry season;
-    poor work planning, organization and management giving
rise to poor distribution and utilization of existing
equipment; and
-    shortage of skilled personnel.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        Extraction equipment owned by TC and presently located in the
Project area falls into two categories; those that will be retained and
rehabilitated, and the remainder which are unserviceable:
Serviceable   Unserviceable    Total
Crawler tractors           8              23            31
Skidders                   5               5            10
Loaders                    8              20            28
Hauling trucks           168             155           323
Launches                   9               6            15
Total               198             209          407
Percent              49              51           100
Table 1 contains existing equipment details by Extraction Agency. In
addition, there are 121 hauling trucks, 28 launches and 8 loaders owned
privately and hired by TC. Some 670 elephants (360 TC and 310 hired)
and 1,250 pairs of hired buffaloes also work in the Project area.
Extraction Program
Past
4.        Actual and expected teak and other hardwood production figures
from the Project area from 1968 to 1974 show that, although substantial
volumes were extracted, a decline in the output of teak would start in
FY74:
FY                        Teak       Hardwood      Total
-- l'000 LT ----
1968)                            70          26            96
1969)                            80          34           114
1970) Actual                     88          33           121
1971)                           103          36           139
1972)                           105          45           150
1973) Estimated /a              129          53           182
1974)                            85          58           143
/a   Actual figures were not avalable at appraisal time.
Lack of equipment and access roads would accentuate the decline unless
substantial inputs are made.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Future
5.        The 10-year teak extraction program has been designed to remove
65,000 LT AAC each year and, in addition, a proportion of the 250,000 LT 1/
backlog spread over eight years:
FY              AAC     Backlog      Total
'000LT ------ -
1975                  65        30          95
1976                  65        35          100
1977                  65        35         100
1978                  65        35         100
1979                  65        35         100
Sub Total        325      170          495
1980                  65        35         100
1981                  65        27          92
1982                  65        18           83
1983                  65         -           65
1984                  65         -          65
Sub Total        325       80          405
Total       650       250          900
Table 2 contains details of the teak extraction schedule by forest divisions
for FY 1974 - 1984.
6.        The non-teak hardwood extraction program assumes a 9%/year/increase
of Group I-III species (Annex 2, Table 2) over a ten-year period:
1/   The total Project area backlog in 1973 was 280,000 LT (Annex 3, Table 2);
it is assumed 30,000 LT of this will be removed in PY1974.



ANNEX 7
Page4
Group
FY                  I    II    III           Total
----- '000 LT ----------
1975               21      4      37            62
1976               22      3      37            62
1977               23      3      36            62
1978               25      4      43            72
1979               27      5      50            82
Sub Total      118    19    203             340
1980               29      6      57            92
1981               31      6      65           102
1982               34      7      71           112
1983               36      8      78           122
1984               41      9      93           143
Sub Total      171    36    364             571
Total          289    55    567             911
Percent         32      6      62           100
By 1979, 38% of the AAC (215,000 LT) will be removed; this is expected to
increase to 66% by FY84. Table 3 contains details of the non-teak hard-
wood extraction schedule by forest division and species groups for FY
1974 - 1984.
Distribution
7.        Green teak logs (from fresh trees which have not been girdled)
are assumed to comprise 12% 1/ of AAC and most of them will be exported.
All logs (green and dry) are graded into star classes from 1 (the lowest)
to 5 (the highest); logs of star class 2 and higher are exported. 2/
Table 4 shows teak log distribution by quality classes by FY 1974 - 1984.
1/   Will increase as the road network develops but 12% used to determine
project benefits.
'/   Only 50% of star class 2 is assumed to be for export.



ANE  7
Page 5
8.        About 80Z of other hardwoods extracted will be absorbed by the
21 sawmills in the Project area, the balance exported in log form or sold
to local operators. Table 5 shows hardwood log distribution by species
groups for FY 1974 - 1984.
9.        After making allowances for log losses in transportation and
log-end triuming 1/ the net volume of production during the ten year
period would be about 780,000 LT teak and 855,000 LT other hardwoods.
Extraction Operations
10.       Extraction will involve felling, debranching and trimming with
hand and power saws; prebunching with aninal power; long length log skidding
with articulated wheeled skidders; loading and unloading with front end
loaders; and, hauling with truck and trailer to mills or rafting depots.
Launches are used to pull log rafts to Rangoon. Each stage is described
briefly below:
Felling:  Dry teak felling with handsaws supplied by
TC would be done by seasonal workers engaged on a contract
basis. Green teak and hardwood felling would be done by
3-man teams using a one-man power saw. Crosscutting will
be longer be done at stump unless the tree is too big to
be handled by elephants.
Pre-bunching for all long length logs would be done
by animal power. This involves skidding over up to
1/2 mile to skidder pick-up points in the forest, which
are connected to the feeder road system by skid-tracks.
Skidding: Logs are picked up by skidders and dragged
along skid tracks (made by extraction unit, 140 F.W. hp
cravler tractors) to log landings adjacent to feeder roads.
It is assumed each of the 100-140 F.W. hp skidders will be
operated 125 days a year for two, six hour shifts by a
driver and three helpers.
Loading and Reloading would be done by mechanical
front end loaders capable of lifting a miniimn of 3-1/2 tons.
They are expected to operate 250 days a year on two, six hour
shifts at forest log landings and rafting depots. They
would also be used to pile and sort logs at depots and launch
logs into the river.
1/   Based on 3Z loss in river transportation and 6% for trivning of
export logs.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Transportation of all project logs from landings to
mills or rafting depots would be, from the third year
onwards, by a fleet of 6 x 4 trucks with twin axle
trailers capable of carrying loads of up to 25 m.t.
(17 LT dry teak or 11 LT green hardwoods). During the
first years of project operation, existing 4 x 2 trucks
that take loads of 6.5 m.t. (7 LT dry teak and 3 LT green
hardwood) would be used. Haulage would be done in one or
two stages. In the dry season logs would be transported
along feeder and access roads to mills, rafting depots and
and all-weather roadhead depots (to build up wet weather
stock). In the wet season logs would be hauled only along
access roads from the all-weather roadhead depots to mills
or rafting depots. Although this system entails some
double handling and additional loaders, it reduces the
length of access load requirements and ensures the trucks
operate 250 days a year.
Rafting and River Transport: The traditioual system
of river transport would be used. At rafting depots
logs are tied into rafts containing 200 LT of dry teak
or 120 LT of green teak or hardwoods. To make green teak
and hardwood logs float, bamboo is tied around the logs
or the logs are tied to out-riggers mounted on wooden
boats. Several rafts of dry teak or up to 12 pairs of
wooden boats are tied together and towed downstream to
Rangoon. Rafting is done on a contract basis and is
usually a year-round occupation. At Rangoon, rafts are
untied and logs sorted according to quality class or
species. Export logs are taken to dry log yards, prepared
for sale and trucked to the port for shipping. Domestic
logs are distributed to sawmills and plywood mills in the
Rangoon area.
Table 6 shows the phasing of extraction activities in re-lation to the dry
and rainy season and hot and cold periods.
11.       The system to be used in the Project area varies from the
standard TC approach in the following respects:
-    long length log skidding and hauling would delay the
need for cross cutting 1/ into logs until the landings,
mills or rafting depots. This should improve the
utilization of timber;
-    all logs would be hauled by truck thereby avoiding the
delay and loss that takes place when creeks are used
for floating logs to the main river;
-    power saws would be introduced for green teak and
hardwood felling to shorten the extraction period;
1/ Presently done at stump.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
prebunching would be introduced to maximize animal
power and reduce the number of skid-tracks required;
the log haulage period would be increased from 110 to
250 days a year as a result of improved roads and the
two stage approach referred to above;
mechanized loaders would be used for all loading and
unloading operations; currently they are only used for
green teak and hardwoods; and
skidders, loaders and trucks would be operated on
two shifts a day for skidders for 125 days, and loaders
and trucks for 250 days annually; currently they are
used for about 100 to 110 days on a one shift basis. 1/
Organization
12.       The basic Project Unit organization is shown in Chart 4.  Ex-
traction under the Chief Engineer would be organized through the five
Extraction Agencies shown in Map IBRD 10768. Each Agency would have an
Agency Manager responsible to the Project Director through the Extraction
Engineer. Field activities would be executed through two Working Units; a
felling and skidding unit headed by the Assistant Agency Manager, and a
loading and haulage unit headed by a Supervisor. Agency, accounting, records
and general stores would be handled by a Unit at Agency Headquarters. The
two changes from existing arrangements proposed under the Project are:
-    direct control of maintenance and repair of equipment
by the Central Workshop Manager in Prome rather than
the Agency Manager; and
-    responsibility for access and feeder road construction
taken away from the Agency Manager and given to a
Project road unit (see Annex 6).
Personnel and Training
13.       It is important that the extraction engineer position be filled
by an internationally recruited specialist with extensive experience in
large scale extraction operations. All other logging personnel would
be recruited from within the TC or elsewhere in Burma. Senior positions
1/   Contractor trucks frequently operate two shifts at present.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
would be filled by graduates. These posts include an under-study to the
specialist as Chief of the Extraction Operations and five Agency Managers
to head the Extraction Agencies.
14.       Timber extraction in the Project area would give employment to
about 4,500 persons; 1/ 2,000 would be permanent employees of TC, and
2,500 seasonal workers employed on contract work.
15.       On-the-job training of workers and operators would take place
in each phase of timber extraction and be continued throughout the life
of the Project. One of the training program objectives would be to turn
out persons of ability for future use throughout the TC.
Capital Costs
16.       TC management expressed the desire to operate the Project with
all new equipment and move out all existing extraction equipment in the
Project area forests to other extraction sites. They felt that TC's main
problem in the past has been the lack of new equipment and having to work
with unreliable old equipment. The mission, however, remains convinced
that many items of existing equipment are capable of rendering economic
use - through planned rehabilitation and proper maintenance. The take-over
value of existing buildings and extraction equipment that can be used is
about Kyats 9.7 million. Details are shown in Table 8. Additional and
replacement equipment required over the 10-year projected period is
shown in Table 9 and phasing of capital costs in Annex 11, Table 3.
Operating Costs
17.       Details of operating costs for the 10-year program are shown in
Annex 13, Table 1. Weighted average royalty rates used were:
Years                Teak           Hardwoods
K/LT    ($/m-)   K/T.T    (/ml)
1 -  5        136.73   (15.75)  12.55   (1.45)
6 - 10        135.56   (15.60)  11.76   (1.35)
1/   Currently some 3,000 persons are employed in extraction operations.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
Table 10 contains details of cost per log ton delivered Rangoon. They are
considerably higher than the 1971/72 unit costs:
Project Estimate
1971/72       Over 10-Year Period
K/LT   ($/m3)       K/LT     ($/m3)
Dry teak               322      (37)       367       (42)/i
Green teak                                 435       (50)/i
Hardwood               133      (15)       227       (26)/
/1   Royalty K 136.21/LT.
/2   Royalty K 12.08/LT.
This is because the proposed approach:
-    establishes a network of extraction roads throughout
the Project area so that felling can take place in
the hitherto inaccessible forests which contain
the backlog of girdled teak;
-    involves operating costs to work the less accessible
areas which would be much higher than the present
TC costs; and
-    allows for a 22% increase in wage rates and inflation
not reflected in current TC costs.
Mechanical Workshop
18.       A Project Central Workshop would be set up at Prome, close to
the Project HQ. This would control all workshop activities in the Project
area. Under its control, the existing agency workshops at Pakokku, Thayet,
Prome, Zigon and Tharrawaddy would take care of equipment in their respective
areas. Some improvements in facilities and workshop equipment would be made
at these agency workshops. The base workshop being constructed by TC with
CIDA assistance at Pyinmana, outside the Project area, would handle all major
reconstruction needs.
19.       The mechanical engineer, to be appointed for the project, would
administer the workshop operations. Under him would come a workshop
engineer to head the Prome workshop, and workshop foremen to look after
the agency workshops. The staff complement proposed is as follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 10
HQ Workshop   Each Agency Workshop
Workshop engineer                        1
Assistant workshop engineer              1
Workshop foremen                         -                   1
Storekeeper                              1                   1
Storekeeper assistant                    1                   -
Clerk                                    1                   1
Mechanic Grade 1                        10                  12
Mechanic Grade 2                        12                  12
Mechanic Electrical                       1                  1
Mechanic helper/Driver                  10                  12
Driver - General transport               3                   3
Total                         39                  43
20.       Each Agency Workshop would be equipped with 4 x 4 vehicles for
field servicing assignments. The Prome Central workshop would also
administer use of the lowbed truck for equipment transportation, and each
agency would have a fuel tanker and trailer, and water tanker for servicing
the field operations.
21.       Workshop is combined with general administration for cost
purposes, and together these require the following expenditures:
Year 1-5     Year 6-10      Total
'--- -000 Kyats ----------
Foreign exchange            4,902        3,703        8,605
Local expenditure          13,167       13,682       26,849
These costs have been pro-rated and allocated to the extraction and road
construction operations to provide true costing of these functions.



ANNEx 7,
BURMA                                               Table 1
FORESTRY PROJECT
T.C. Extraction Power in Project Area
Retained
Extraction Agency                                         Total          and
Pakokku        Thayet          Prome         Zigon        Tharrawaddy    Rangoon         Nos.      Rehabilitated
Crawler Tractors
Cat D6                        1G (72)                                                                                       1            1
Cat-D6                        1F (60)                                                                                       1            -
Cat D7                        IF (55)                                                     1F (55)                          2             -
Allis Chalmers                1F (69)       3F (69)       3F (69)                                                           7            7
TD-20                         2F (65)                     2F (65)                         4F (65)                           8            -
EIMCO                                                                     lOP (64)                                        10             _
Massey Ferguson                                                                           2G (70)                           2            -
Loaders                                                                       1G (71)         IF (68)
Wheel-type Yale               7F (69)       5F (69)       3F (69)          2F (68)        20 (71)                          21            7
Cat 950                       2G (72)2/         -            -            1G (73)            -                              31
Komatsu                                     1F (70)                                                                         1            -
L-250                                                     1F (65)                                                           1            -
11 65-D                                                   1F (65)                                                           1            -
Cat 955                                                                   IF (64)                                           1            -
Hauling Trucks
Isuzu                          5P (66)      5P (66)                                                                       10             -
M-34                          15US (66)   IOUS (66)    8US (65/66)        5US (66)        5US (66)                        43             -
Hino                          14P (68)    20P (68)        24P (68)         15P (68)       lOP (68)                         83            -
Wino                          24F (70)      6F (70)       12F (70)         12F (70)       12F (70)                         66           52
Hino                           6F (71)    12F (71)                                        12F (71)                         30           30
Hino                          17F (72)      3F (72)       12F (72)                                                         32           32
Hino                          12G (73)                    16G (73)        8G (73)         18G (73)                         54           54
5US (73)                                         5            -
Skidders                          2P (69)                    5F (69)          2F (69)        1F (70)                          10            5
Launches                          9F (67)                    3F (67)          3F (58)                                         15            9
Wheel Cranes Coles                                                                                             9               9             5
T.C. Elephants                     189            62            66               25              18                          360          360
Contractor Elephants                 23           26            74               94              89                          306          306
Contractor Buffaloes Pairs          95           141           335              256             420                        1,247        1,247
Note: G indicates good condition
F indicates fair or repairable condition
P indicates poor condition
US indicates unserviceable condition
Numbers in brackets refer to year of purchase
I/ Excludes 121 trucks, 28 launches and 8 loaders privately owned and hired by TC
2/ Reserved for pine extraction.
Source: Timber Corporation



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Log Extraction Schedule - Teak
('000 Log Tons)
Forest                                    1/                                    Total                                                   Total
Division                  Category  1974/5  1975/6  1976/7  1977/8  1978/9  1974/9  1979/80   1980/i  1i212   19&2/3   1983/4  1979/84
Yaw                             A        9.5       9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5    47.5       9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5      47.5
B       2.5       2.9      2.9       2.9     2.9    14.1        2.9     2.2      1.4       -        -        6.5
Sub-Total          12.0      12.4    12.4    12.)    12.4    61.6    12.4    11.7    10.9             9.5      9.5      54.o
Minbu                           A        6.o       6.o      6.o      6.o      6.o    30.0       6.o      6.o      6.0      6.o      6.o      30.0
B        2.7       3.3      3.3      3.3      3.3    15.9       3.3      2.5     1.7       -        -         7.5
Sub-Total           8.7       9.3      9.3      9.3      9.3    45.9       9.3      8.5      7.7      6.0      6.0      37.5
Thayet                          A       24.5      24.5    24.5    24.5    24.5   122.5    24.5    24.5           24 5    24.5    24t.5   ,1225
B        7.3       7.8      7.8      7.8      7.8    3R.5       7.8      6.4      4.0      -        _        18.2
Sub-Total          31.8      32.3    32.3      32.3    32.3   161.0    32.3    30.9    28.5    24.5           24.5    140.7
Aunglan                         A        3.8       3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8    19.0       3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3,8      19.0
B        1.)       1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      9.1.    1.9       1.3     1.0            -  _          4.2
Sub-Total            5.3      5.7       5.7      5.7     5.7    28.1        5.7     5.1      4.8      3.8      3.8       23.2
Prome                           A        6.1       6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1    30.5      6.1       6.1     6.1       6.1      6,1      30.5
B        5.8       6.7     6.7       6.7      6.7    32.6       6.7     5.2      3.4       -                15.3
Sub-Total          11.9      12.8    12.8    12.8    12.8    63.1    12.8    11.3            9.5      6.1      6.1      45.8
Zigon                           A        6.6       6.6     6.6      6.6       6.6     33.0      6.6     6.6      6.6      6.6       6.6      30.0
B        5.0       5.9      5.9      5.9      5.9    28.6       5.9      4.6     3.,0                -       13.5
Sub-Total          11.6      12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5    61.6    12.5    11.2            9.6      6.6       6.6      46.5
Tharrawaddy                     A        6.0       6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     3 .0      6.0      6,o      6,1      6.2      6.2      30.5
B        5.0       5.9      5.9      5.9      5.9    28.6       5.9      4.6     3.0                         13.5
Sub-Total          10.9      11.9    11.9    11.9    11.9    58.5,    11.9    10.6           9.1      6.2      6.2       44.o
Insein                          A        2.3       2.3     2.3       2.3     2.3    11.5        2.3     2.1      2.2      2.3      2.3       11.2
B        0.5       0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      3.7      0.8      o.6     o.4                          1.8
Sub-Total           2.8       3.1       3.1      3.1      3.1    15.2      3.1      2.7      2.6       2.3     2.3       13.o
Total A        65.o      65.0    65.o    65.o    65.0   325.0    65.o    6s.o    65.o    65.o              65.o    329.0
Total B         30.0     35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0   170.0    35.0    27.0           l .o0       -        -       80.0
Grand Total:        95.0    100.0   100.5   100.0   10o.0   495.o   100.2    92.0    83.0    65.o              65.o    405.0
A = Allowable cutt
B = Backlog
1/ Only 25% of 1974/75 volume would be extracted by the Project Unit.                                                                                              am



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Log Extraction Schedule - Hardwoods
('000 Log Tons)
Forest                       Allowable                                                                  Total                                                       Total
Division                         Cut       Group    %   1974/5   1975/6   1976/7   1977/8   1978/9   1974/9   1979/80  1980/1   1981/2   1982/3   1983/4   1979/84
Yaw                              23.0        1      69     3.5       3.5      4.3       4.3       4.3      19.9      4.3       4.3       4.3       4.3       4.3     21.5
2     12      0.6      0.6       0.8       0.8      0.8       3.6       0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8       4.0
3     19      0.9      0.9       1.2       1.2       1.2      5.4       1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2       6.0
Sub-Total:                   5.0      5.0       6.3       6.3      6.3      28.9       6.3      6.3       6.3       6.3       6.3      31.5
Minbu                            15.1        1      69     1.4       1.4       1.7      1.7       1.7       7.9       1.7      1.7       1.7       1.7       1.7       8.5
2     12      0.2      0.2       0.3       0.3      0.3       1.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       1.5
3     19      0.4      0.4       0.5       0.5      0.5       2.3       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5       2.5
Sub-Total:                   2.0      2.0       2.5       2.5       2.5     11.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5     12.5
Thayet                                       1      14     1.6       0.7       0.7      1.4       1.5       5.9      2.6       2.9       3.9       4.1       6.2      19.7
2      9      1.1      0.4       0.4       0.9       1.0      3.8       1.7       1.8       2.4       2.7       3.9     12.5
3     77      8.9      3.7       3.7       7.9       8.3     32.5      14.2      15.8      21.2.    22.6      34.0    107.8
Sub-Total:                  11.6      4.8       4.8      10.2      10.8     42.2      18.5      20.5      27.5      29.4     44.1    140.0
Aunglan                          99.3        1      14     1.4       1.4       1.2       1.7      2.8       8.5       2.8      3.5       3.5       4.2       4.2      18.2
2      9      0.9      0.9       0.7       1.1       1.8      5.4       1.8       2.2       2.2       2.7       2.7     11.6
3     77      7.7      7.3       5.8       9.2      15.4     45.4      15.4      19.3      19.3      23.1     23.1    100.2
Sub-Total:                  10.0      9.6       7.7      12.0      20.0     59.3      20.0      25.0      25.0      30.0      30.0    130.0
Prome                            27.9        1      30     3.0       3.8       3.8      3.8       3.8      18.2       4.0      4.5       5.0       5.5       6.5      25.5
2      3      0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3      1.5       0.4       0.4       0.5       0.5       0.6      2.4
3     67      6.7      8.4       8.4       8.4       8.4     40.3       9.0      10.1      11.1      12.2      14.5     56.9
Sub-Total:                  10.0     12.5      12.5      12.5      12.5     60.0      13.4      15.0      16.6      18.2      21.6      84.8
Zigon                            26.0        1      34     5.3       6.6       6.6       6.6      6.6      31.7       6.6       6.6      6.6       6.6       6.6      33.0
2      3      0.5      0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6      2.9       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       3.0
3     63      9.8     12.3      12.3      12.3      12.3     59.0      12.3      12.3      12.3      12.3      12.3     61.5
Sub-Total:                  15.6      19.5     19.5      19.5      19.5     93.6      19.5      19.5      19.5      19.5      19.5      97.5
Tharrawaddy                      14.5        1      60     2.6       2.6       2.5       2.9      3.4      14.0       3.8       4.3       4.8       5.3       6.2     24.4
2      1       -         -        -         -        0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.5
3     39      1.7       2.1      2.2       2.0       2.2     10.2       2.5       2.8       3.1       3.4       4.1      15.9
Sub-Total:                   4.3      4.7       4.7       4.9       5.7     24.3       6.4       7.2       8.0       8.8      10.4     40.8
Insein                           11.7        1      60     2.1       2.1       2.0       2.5      2.8      11.5       3.2       3.6       4.0      4.4       5.2      20.4
2      1       -         -        -         -         -        -        -         -         -         -         0.1       0.1
3     39      1.4      1.4       1.4       1.6       1.9      7.7       2.2       2.4       2.6       2.9       3.3      13.4
Sub-Total:                   3.5       3.5      3.4       4.1       4.7      19.2      5.4       6.0       6.6       7.3       8.6      33.9
Sub-Totals:   1             20.9     22.1      22.8      24.9      26.9    117.6       29.0     31.4      33.8      36.1      40.9    171.2
2             3.6      3.0       3.1       4.0       4.9      18.6       5.7      6.2       6.9       7.7       9.1      35.6
3            37.5     36.9      36.1      43.1      50.2    203.8      57.3      64.4      71.3      78.2      93.0    364.2
GRAND TOTAL:                62.0      62.0     62.0      72.0      82.0    340.0       92.0    102.0    112.0    122.0    143.0    571.0
_  _                                    _                   _                  _ -3 > a  P
(D <



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
1/
Log pistribution - Teak
('000 Log Tons)
2/
G r o s s   V o l u m e s-
Total                                                 Total
Star   %   1974/5  1975/6  1976/7  1977/8  1978/9  1974/9  1979/80  1980/1  1981/2  1982/3  1983/4  1979/84
(a) Sawmill Logs                   1      64   31.9      33.7    33.7    33.7    33.7   166.7    33.7    30.8    27.6    21.1    21.1    134.3
2     36   18.1      19.1    19.1    19.1    19.1    94.5    19.1    17.5    15.9    12.4    12.4             77.3
Sub-Total:          100   50.0       52.8    52.8    52.8    52.8   261.2    52.8    48.3    43.5    33.5    33.5    211.6
(b) Export Logs                    2      40   18.1      19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    94.1    19.0    17.6    15.8    12.4    12.4             77.2
3     48   21.5      22.6    22.6    22.6    22.6   111.9    22.6    20.9    18.8    14.9    14.9             92.1
4      9    4.0       4.2      4.2      4.2     4.2    20.8       4.2      3.9     3.7      3.1      3.1      18.0
5      3    1.4       1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4     7.0      1.4      1.3     1.2      1.1      1.1       6.1
Sub-Total:          100   45.0       47.2    47.2    47.2    47.2   233.8    47.2    43.7    39.5    31.5    31.5    193.4
Total: -                   95.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   495.0   100.0    92.0    83.0    65.0    65.0    405.0
1/ Figures do not includp 160,000 tons of pre-1974 river inventory.
2/ Net volumes are obtained by reducing gross volume by 37. for losses in river transportation.  Export logs reduced by 6% for trimming losses in the Rangoon Depot.
3/ Green logs will comprise 12% of total production.
4/ Only 25% of the 1974/75 volume would be extracted by the Project Unit.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Log Distribution - Hardwoods
('000 Log Tons)
G ross   V o   um e s
./                                    , Total                                                         Total
Croup   1974/5   1975/6   1976/7   1977/8   1978/9   1974/9   1979/80   1980/1   1981/2   1982/3   1983/4   1979/84
1. Sawn in Project Area
(Local Use)                   1       18.9      18.9     18.9      18.9      18.9      94.5    15.0         15.0      15.0      15.0      15.0     75.0
2       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       10.0     2.0         2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0     10.0
3      29.1      29.1     29.1      39.1     41.6      168.0    45.5         45.5      45.5      45.5     45.5    227.5
Sub-Total:          50.0      50.0     50.0      60.0     62.5      272.5    62.5         62.5      62.5      62.5      62.5    312.5
2. Sawn in Rangoon:
(a) Lumber for Burma Use      1        -         -         -        1.0       -          1.0     -           -         -         -         -         -
2       -         -         -        2.0       1.9        3.9     -           -         -         -         -         -
3       5.0       5.0       5.0      2.0       5.1       22.1     7.0         8.0       8.0       9.0       9.0     41.0
Sub-Total:           5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0       7.0       27.0     7.0         8.0       8.0       9.0       9.0     41.0
(b) Lumber for Export          1       -         0.2       0.9      2.0       3.0        6.1     -           -         -         -         -         -
2       0.6       1.0       1.1      -         1.0        3.7     3.7         -         -         -         -         3.7
3       1.4       0.8       -        -         -          2.2     1.3         5.0       6.0       6.0       7.0      25.3
Sub-Total:           2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       4.0       12.0     5.0         5.0       6.0       6.0       7.0     29.0
Total Logs for Lumber:            57.0      57.0     57.0      67.0      73.5     311.5    74.5         75.5      76.5      77.5      78.5    382.5
3. Round Logs
(a) Local Use                  1
2       -         -         _        -         _          -       _           _         _         _         _         _
3       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       3.5       11 5     3.5          4.5      4.5       5.5       5.5      23.5
Sub-Total:           2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       3.5       11.5     3.5          4.5       4.5      5.5       5.5      23.5
(b) Export Logs                1       2.0       3.0       3.0      3.0       5.0       16.0    14.0         16.4     18.8      21.1      25.9      96.2
2       1.0       -         -        -         -          1.0      -          4.2        4.9      5.7       7.1      21.9
3        _        -                  -                    -        -           1.4       7.3     12.2      26.0      46.9
Sub-Total:           3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0       5.0       17.0    14.0         22.0     31.0      39.0      59.0    165.0
Total Round Logs:            5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0       8.5      28.5    17.5         26.5      35.5      44.5     64.5    188.5
Total  Hardwoods:  1        20.9     22.1      22.8      24.9      26.9     117.6    29.0         31.4      33.8      36.1     40.9    205.5
2       3.6       3.0       3.1      4.0       4.9       18.6      5.7         6.2      6.9       7.7       9.1      35.6
3      37.5      36,9      36.1     43.1      50.2      203.8    57.3        64.4      71.3      78.2      93.0    364.2
Grand Total:          62.0      62.0      62,0      72.()    82.0      340.0    92.0        102.0    112.0    122.0    143.0    571.0
~~~~~=  =  = 5 =_
Notes: 1.  Net Volumes are obtained by deducting 3% from all gross volumes (ex2ept logs used locally' to allow for loss in river transportation.
2,  Criteria for utilization of hardwood logs: (R) in areas where total :ardwood produ-ction is for local sawmills,
no sorting of specie groups for higher utilization can be made; and
(b) where available, group I and 2 species allocated for export logs.
1/ Only 25% of the 1974/75 volume would be extracted by the Project Unit.                                                                                       m :
ic-a



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Timber Extraction Working Schedule
. _                             I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I            i          ||rg8l
JAN.    I FEB.       MAR.   'APRIL        MAY      IJUNE       JULY      IAUG.      'SEPT.       OCT.     'NOV.        DEC.
OPERATION DESCRIPTION                  , .   ,DRY SEASON                I          '  RAIN SEASON                                                 SEASON
Cool period      I    Hot period-I/   p   |                                                   I               Cool Period
Felling dry teak
green teak
hardwoods
D.T.
Prebunching (animal) G.T.                  I
Hechanical Skidding               _                                                                                                               _________________
loading and Transport                                                                  I
to all wather road
Loading and Transport                      I                                                      '          I                      I
to rafting points                                                                    r
Rafting and River Transport
Log Yard Handling
Skid Track Construction                               I                                                                             4 I
1/ Official 4 to 5 day Holiday
Burmese New Year
0: -4



BURMA
FQRESTRY PRQJECLI.
Annual Average Labor Requirements
Persons                    Labor Category
Number of      per                  Operators
Teams        Team      Foreman      Drivers     Skilled    Unskilled         Total
Felling
Contract                      155          4                                   155          465            620 -o
T.C. Workers                   19          3          20           19           -             38            77
Animal Power
Skidding
T.C.                                                  751/         -            -            999  /1,074
Contractors                                           13           -            -         1,859 1-872
Mechanical Skidding            42           4         10           42           -            126           178
Crosscutting                    8          1                                                                 -
Loading                        28          2          28           28                         28            84
Haulage Dry Season            130          2          -           130                        130           260
Unloading                      26          2          26           26                         26             78
Reloading 3                    -           -                                                                -
Haulage Wet Season             -            -
Unloading 3/                   -            -                                                                -
Rafting                        15          4           5           -            60            -              65
River Transport                 9          5                       18            9            18             45
Logyard
Sorting, Measuring             14          4          14 2/                                   42            56
End Cutting                     2           3                        2                         4              6
Loading, Piling                12          2                       12                         12             24
Transport to port              16          2          -            16                         16             32
Skidtrack Construction         18          2                       18                         18             36
19-1        &31           224        3781            4,51
' Field veterinary assistants 15; team foreman 60 for 358 heads of elephants.                                      >
/ Temporary workers 13 foreman; 612 elephant leaders and helpers; 1,247 buffalo leaders.                            z
Dry season operators and workers used.                                                                       m M
g  Contract workers.
2/Team leader.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Takeover Value of Buildings and Equipment
(Kyats '000)
Units
Original    Age/                 Present       Taken   Sub-Total  Takeover
Type of Assets           Value     Years   Condition      Value        Over      Value      Value
Miscellaneous:
Head Office                   -                     -                       -         Nil       Nil
Agency Offices                20       10-15     Good             10.0      5           50.0
Agency Workshops              15        2-3      Good             15.0      5           75.0
Workshop Tools                 3        2-3      Good              2.0      5           10.0
Sub-Total:                                                                          135.0    135.0
Equipment:
(a) Crawler Tractors:
D6                     301         1      Good            301.0       1         301.0
A.C.H. tractors        301         4       Fair      1/5   60.0       7          420.0
Sub-Total:                                                                          721.0    721.0
(b) Loaders:
Wheel-loader/Yale      255          5      Fair      1/5   51.0       7          357.0
CAT 950                255         1       Good           255.0       1          255.0
Sub-Total:                                                                          612.0    612.0
(c) Hauling trucks 4 x 2:
Hino:                   70          1      Good      3/4   52.5      54        2,835.0
70         2      Fair       1/2   35.0      32       1,120.0
70         3       Fair      1/4   17.5      30         525.0
70         4      Fair       1/7   10.0      52         520.0
5,000.0 5,000.0
(d) Skidders:
Timberjack:            166         3       Fair      2/5   66.0       4          264.0
166         2       Fair      1/2   83.0       1           83.0
Sub-Total:                                                                          347.0    347.0
(e) Launches                 546         6       Fair      4/10 218.4       9                 1,965.6
(f) Wheel-cranes coles       294         2       Fair      2/3  192.0       5                   960.0
Grand Total:                                                                                9,740.6
co 



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Equipment Procurement Schedule
CIF      Duty and      Unit Cost              Annual Requirements         Years 1 to 5           Annual Requirements       1     Years 6 to 10
Type of Equipment            Rangoon    Handling    in 000's Kyats        1      2      3     4     5     Requirements              7        8      9      10    Requirements
-   '000 Kyats -------------                                          NU M B E R S
Felling saws - hand              3.01/      0.451/         3.45 9'       220     -      -    155    -          375           -     140                    95         235
- power            1.2        0.24           1.44            -    25      -     25R   5           55          25R             30R           40R          95
Skidders (large 14oFW hp)    232.8         34.90         267.70            2     -      5R          1            9           2R 2            5R     1                  10
1R                                 ~~~~~~~~~~2R
Skidders (small JOOFW hp)    144.8         21.70         166.5             2     -      6      4R   2           14           2R      -      1OR     32    1-R         16
Tractors for skid-tracks      262.2        39.3          301.5             1     -      4R     -    4R           9           -       -       2R     -      4R           6
7R   43                                       R     1R2
Loaders                       222.2        33.3          255.5             -     -      9     1o    4           30           -       -       9R    17R    3R          29
Wheel-cranes                  255.9        38.4          294.3             2     -      1R     -    4R           7           -       2R      -      3R    1R
12
Trucks 4 X 2                    72.2       21.7           93.9             -     -      5R     3R   -            8           5R       3R     -      5R    -            13
Trucks 6 X 4 and trailer       199.6       59.9          259.5             -    40    25       6    -           71          40R     25R      6R      -    40R         111
Towing launches               455.7        91.1          546.8             -     4R    4R      1R   -            9
Initial spare parts                                       g/               1     1      1      1    1            5           -       _       _       _     _           _
Rehabilitation of                                                                                                            -
Equipment                   jj                         3/               1     -      -      -    -
Note:  R indicates replacement machines; in year 1 to 5 replacements for machines rehabilitated and phased out.
/ Per 100 saws.
One lot at 20% of equipment CIF value amounting to 8.9 million over 5 years.
3/ One lot at 20% of estimated value of equipment retained in project area.  Parts value 3.5 million in year.
Mostly replacements of equipment.                                                                                                                                           M
1o -4



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Average Cost Per Log Ton in Kyats
(Based on Output over 10 Years)
Dry Teak                                 Green Teak                                 Hard Woods
Volume                       Cost per    Volume                        Cost per    Volume                         Cost per
handled in       Cost in       log ton   handled in        Cost in        log ton   handled in        Cost in        log ton
Phase of extraction           000's log t  000's Kyats   in Kyats   000's log t  000's Kyats   in Kyats   000's log t  000's Kyats   in Kyats
I. Direct Costs
1. Skid-track constr.             655.6          3212.7           4.90        78              38.0          4.87       911            2095.2           2.30
2. Felling, bucking               822           41461.2          50.44        78            5155.9         66.10       911           11769.5          12.92
Skidding to Landing
3. Haulage to log yard
or rafting depot              800 1/        35500.3         44.37         78           5402.0          69.25       911           37384.8          41.03
Subtotal for delivery to
log yard or rafting depot                                      99.71                                     140.22                                      56.25
4. Rafting and river
transport                     601.4 2/    11440.5           19.02         59.5 3/      2607.2          43.82       326.9 4/    14357.9            43.92
5. Log yard handling              363.66         4739.1          13.03        57.5           896.2         15.60        216.4         3406.2          15.74
6. Royalty                                                      136.21                                    136.21                                      12.08
Subtotal direct costs 5/                                       267.97                                    335.85                                     127.99
II.  Indirect Costs                                                                                                                                                 Total
1. Road charges                   822           25400.0 6/       30.90        78            2410.2 6/      30.90        911          28150.0 6/       30.90       55960.2 6/
2. Depreciation felling
and skidding eq.              822            5614.2 7/       6.83         78            532.7 7/        6.83       911            6222.1 7/        6.83      12369.0 7/
3. Depreciation haulage
equipment                     800           24520.0 7/      30.65         78           2390.7 7/       30.65       911           27922.0 7/       30.65      54832.t 7/
4. Depreciation river
transport equipment           601            3690.1 7/       6.14         59.5          365.3 7/        6.14       327            2007.8 7/        6.14       6063.2 7/
5. Depreciation log yard
equipment                     364            3214.1 7/       8.83         57.5          507.7 7/        8.83       216            1907.3 7/        8.83       5629.1 7/
6. Overhead and workshop          822           12987.2 8/       15.80        78            1232.4 8/       15.80       911           14394.0 8/       15.80      28613.6 9/
Subtotal indirect costs                                         99.15                                     99.15                                      99.15
Total costs estimated                                          367.12/log ton                            435.00/log ton                             227.14/log ton
1/ Pakokku Yaw 22000 log tons floated.
2/ 220600 log tons hauled direct to Rangoon.
3/ 18500 log tons hauled direct to Rangoon.
4/ 584100 log tons to local mills.
5/  Export logs F.A.S.
6/  No risidual value of roads considered.                                                                                                                                        a,
7/  Depreciation charges incurred during 10 years.                                                                                                                                m x
8/  Portion of 87% of total cost charged to timber extraction based on total administration and workshop costs over 10 years.
9/ Amount of administration and workshop costs charged to timber extraction.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Sawmilling
1.        In 1973, there were 258 sawmills operating in Burma - 27 mills
converting exclusively teak and 231 mills sawing mostly non-teak hardwood.
The annual capacities of these mills are estimated by TC at 260,000 LT
teak and 665,000 LT other hardwood input. The new teak sawmill at Okkyin
(constructed under USAID) nearing completion is stated to have annual
input capacity of 150,000 LT working two shifts. This would bring the
annual teak milling capacity to about 410,000 LT. 1/ The Okkyin mill
and the 22 other teak mills with some 360,000 LT capacity are located
in Rangoon area while the remaining 6 mills are in other towns. All but
one of non-teak hardwood mills are in scattered locations outside Rangoon.
2.        The overall picture of sawmills in Burma 2/ is one of old and
poorly maintained equipment; slow mill throughput; unutilized capacity
caused mainly by poor works management; lack of essential spare parts;
production dislocation due to machinery breakdowns and undependable log
deliveries; waste of valuable manpower; poor log utilization; and lack of
appreciation by senior management of the real problems.
3.        Management attitudes are not easy to measure, but it was clear to
the mission that otherwise well educated management seem entirely content
to carry on without:
(a) daily or even weekly record of logs sawn or the lumber
out-turn volume;
(b) record of unproductive 'down or lost' time or analysis
of its cause;
(c) serious concern for reducing excessive manpower on the
sawmill operations;
(d) recognition of the value of 'good housekeeping' in
improving production efficiency; or
1/   Present teak extraction capacity and MAC are about 350,000 LT.
2/   With the exception of Okkyin mill.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(e) means, other than through casual observation, for
measuring actual performance against targets, norms
or standards.
4.        The overall conversion rate for teak is stated to have dropped
from 48% in 1966/67 to 40% in 1971/72. The present conversion average is:
Squares                         20%
Board                            3%
Scantlings                     67%
Other Grades                    10%
This performance should be considered unsatisfactory. The aim should be
to decrease the low-value scantlings and increase the output in dimensions
easily disposable on the export markets. It also appears that the
sawnwood sizes produced by TC are too many.
5.        Although the reported combined teak and non-teak hardwood
milling capacity, in 1973/74 of more than 1.1 million LT, would appear
to be adequate to meet the country's sawmilling requirements for the next
five years or so, the real situation is not satisfactory. Many of the
mills are very old and the equipment obsolete.  In their present state,
it appears certain that about 25 mills could become inoperative every year
from 1973/74. Most of the non-teak hardwood mills have an annual input
capacity of under 4,000 LT and are uneconomic in size. The sawmill opera-
tion of TC therefore requires strengthening: by improving management;
abandoning uneconomic mills; rehabilitating and expanding of others to
make them more economic units; construction of new and larger mills to
absorb increasing timber extraction planned by GOB; improving log utili-
zation; and optimizing the value of the converted lumber.
6.        No major capital investments have been recommended for sawmilling
in this first phase Project. New investment plans would entail
detailed feasibility studies for which funds have been included. Terms
of reference of these studies are given in Annex 10. The entire teak
output from the Project area during the ten-year Project period could
be converted in the new Okkyin sawmill. TC would however face a problem
in converting the Project's output of non-teak hardwood, and as an interim
measure US$637,000 has been provided for the improvement of the non-teak
hardwood sawmills in the Project area where there are 24 hardwood mills
with a combined capacity of about 50,000 LT input, leaving a balance of
about 10,000 LT to be sawn in mobile mills and others sited outside the
Project area. This overflow would gradually increase to about 35,000 LT
by 1983/84. It will be necessary therefore to ensure that optimum utili-
zation is made of the milling capacity available in the Project area
and in nearby locations, to overhaul and rehabilitate the mills so that
existing capacity does not decline, and to increase the throughput in the
more dependable mills by working them on second shifts.
7.        Improvements could be achieved with nominal capital investments
to go hand in hand with simple and obvious changes in plant layout, work



ANNEX 8
Page 3
flow and management methods. Provision has been made in Project costs for
training four selected sawmill managers in overseas factories (eg. Singapore,
Korea, Philippines, Taiwan, Malaysia or India) for periods of up to two months
under the guidance of an experienced sawmill specialist (Terms of reference
given in the Appendix). Whichever country or countries are selected, the
itinerary should be planned so as to permit the viewing of sawmill installa-
tions which demonstrate a significantly higher level of efficiency, but a
level which is still attainable in Burma. While it would be useful, in the
long term, for the TC mill managers to visit one or two establishments in
the West which incorporate the latest and sophisticated sawmill machinery
and management, any attempt to bring the industry abruptly up to the level
of North American or European levels would be most inappropriate at this time.
8.        Efforts to make available more advanced sawmill machinery to TC,
even though accompanied by a high degree of technical assistance and train-
ing, will be of little value unless they are also accompanied by the incul-
cation of basically sound and imaginative management attitudes. It is
essential, therefore that the concept of improved management be encouraged,
not only amongst those at mill management level but also amongst the senior
management in the TC headquarters at Rangoon.
9.        On completion of the training tour, the sawmill specialist would
return to Burma for 8 months and work with the 4 trained managers. They
would then work in the field as a group and initially survey four selected
and representative sawmills in the Project area and recommend action neces-
ary to improve the mill efficiency. Improvements would be possible in
several aspects including:
(a) accelerating movement of logs from rail, road and river
delivery points to sawmill by using winch, tractor, truck
or buffalo and ensuring a continuous supply of saw logs;
(b) increasing power;
(c) installing "dead" or powered rolls, inside the mill
and to the lumber stacking yard;
(d) washing logs by immersion or pressure where water
supply is available;
(e) adding, where headsaw capacity is adequate, one or
more 'benches' (Resaw);
(f) better 'housekeeping' e.g. clearing residues and
waste from mill area daily, giving easier access to
machinery;
(g) adjusting saw filing schedules (now done four times
per day) to occur:



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(i) during normal shutdown for lunch or scheduled
rest period;
(ii) before morning start-up; and
(iii) after close of day's sawing operations.
(h) replacing lineshafts, jackshhafts, etc. (presently
almost entirely on babbit bearings) with anti-friction
(ball or roller) type bearings - especially where
existing power supply is inadequate; and
(i) introducing incentive schemes based on:
(i) downtime saving;
(ii) production quantity;
(iii) improvement in out-turn; and
(iv) improvement in grade average.
The foregoing list is neither comprehensive nor intended to be universally
applicable in toto. An experienced and active mill manager would expand
on or modify these after a close examination of particular sawmills in
operation. These 4 mills would serve as demonstration units for the
reorganization and rehabilitation of other mills in the Project area. The
sawmill specialist should, during the last two months of his initial stay
in Burma prepare for TC a program of reorganization of other mills serving
the Project area.
10.       In this way, it would be possible not only to ensure continuing
capacity of these sawmills, but also to increase the capacity of the mills
in the Project area so that non-teak hardwood extraction could be increased
to the limit of market potential.
11.       The technical assistance (sawmill specialist and training of
mill managers overseas) is expected to cost US$100,000 and the mill reha-
bilitation spares about US$500,000 making up the total of US$600,000. 1/
1/   Excluding contingencies.



AiNEX 8
Appendix
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Sawmill Specialist
1.        The Timber Corporation (TC) would undertake a program of reha-
bilitation of its hardwood sawmills situated in the Project area. The
major objectives of this program are:
(a) boosting the sawmilling capacity in the Project area;
(b) improving significantly the efficiency of selected
sawmills;
(c) acquiring a detailed knowledge of current sawmilling
practices overseas; and
(d) achieving a higher standard of sawmilling operations
in the country as a whole, through demonstration
effect, generated by the rehabilitated mills.
2.        During 1975, four selected mill managers from TC would be exposed
to modern efficient overseas sawmilling operations in Hong Kong, Philippines,
Malaysia, Singapore, India or Taiwan.  This would be done through detailed
technical inspection of selected hardwood conversion operations. Both the
planning of the tour and actual tutoring of the trainees during the visits
would be the responsibility of a highly qualified sawmill specialist. This
part of the training would last approximately two months.
3.        The emphasis would be on improved works management, e.g. stream-
lining mill layout and work flow, so as to increase productivity. Funds
would be available for procurement of machinery spares and parts for
rehabilitation of selected mills.
4.        Upon return to Burma, the trained managers, and the specialist
would work as a team, for about 8 months, survey the mills in the Project
area and select four mills, initially, for the reorganization and rehabili-
tation. These units would then serve as demonstration models for rehabili-
tation of further mills in the same manner.
5.        The Sawmill Specialist would:
(a) be responsible to the Managing Director of TC:
(b) be a qualified works engineer, and have minimum fifteen
years training and experience in hardwood sawmilling;



ANNEX 8
Appendix
Page 2
(c) be knowledgeable in current lumber milling and
management techniques and familiar with working con-
ditions in Asian countries;
(d) be capable of imparting sawmilling, engineering and
works management expertise to trained Burmese counter-
parts;
(e) work in close collaboration with the TC Milling Depart-
ment General Manager;
(f) be responsible for drawing up a program for the training
overseas of four TC mill managers;
(g) in conjunction with the TC Managing Director;
(i) select from TC mill managers four persons suitable
for training overseas; and
(ii) arrange for their training in overseas mills.
(h) accompany, guide and supervise the four managers in
their mill training overseas for a period of about
two months:
(i) prepare a comprehensive end-of-tour report covering,
inter alia, the following topics: (a) description
and analysis of the sawmilling operations in the Project
area covering the managerial, technical, financial and
economic aspects;
(ii) proposals for improving sawmill operations in the
Project area;
(iii) relevance of the experience, gained from the tour and
study of Project area mills, for the country as a whole;
and
(iv) suggestions for further improvement of sawmills in the
Project area.
(j) direct the planning of sawmill rehabilitation in the Project
area for four selected mills;
(k) direct both the administration and operations of the
selected mills in the Project area;



ANNEX 8
Appendix
Page 3
(1) undertake a follow-up tour to Burma after an appropriate
period for about two months and to present a progress
evaluation report; and
(m)  provide information, as appropriate, for use in feasibility
studies.
6.        TC management would be expected to contribute in the following
ways:
(a) seconding four competent mill managers on continuous,
full-time basis for a period of two years to undertake
two months' overseas training, and reorganization of
sawmills in the Project area;
(b) assist in the endeavors of the sawmill rehabilitation
group through access to all the pertinent operations and
data, provision of field transportation and lodging
facilities; and
(c) generally render effective support to implement the
sawmilling rehabilitation program.






ANNEX 9
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Specialists
1.        The Timber Corporation (TC), a state owned commercial enterprise
engaged in hardwood (teak and non-teak) extraction requires the services
of the following four specialists:
Position                       Minimum Period
Timber Extraction Engineer                   4 years
Workshop Engineer                            3-1/2 years
Road Engineer                                4 years
Management Accountant                        3  "
The specialists would be resident at Prome and work full-time for the Project
Unit (PU) - a new division within the TC complex, formed to implement the
timber extraction project financed with a Credit provided by International
Development Association (IDA). The initial duration of the contract would
be limited to periods specified above, but may be extended by a further
period of twelve months in each case if considered by TC and IDA to be
necessary.
2.        The Timber Extraction Engineer would:
(a) be responsible to the Project Director;
(b) assist the Project Implementation Committee;
(c) assist in the selection and procurement of logging
equipment;
(d) coordinate timber extraction in extraction Agencies
in the Project area;
(e) prepare equipment utilization and timber extraction
schedules;
(f) be responsible for proper utilization of equipment
according to work schedules;
1/   Terms of reference for sawmill specialist responsible to TC Managing
Director are given in Annex 8.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(g) be responsible for organization and implementation
of on-the-job training for forest workers and
machine operators, and Burmese extraction engineers;
(h) be responsible for implementation of timber extraction
methods and systems best suited for each forest area
of the Project;
(i) organize overseas training of Burmese extraction engineers;
(j) be responsible for setting up and upkeep of equipment
work records;
(k) be responsible for preparation of extraction budgets; and
(1) assist in the selection of technical staff.
Qualifications Required:
(a) have a University Degree or equivalent in forestry
or mechanical engineering;
(b) have not less than ten years practical experience
in mechanized timber extraction of which at least five
years should have been in tropical forest;
(c) have experience in:
(i) work planning and organization;
(ii) efficient utilization of timber extraction and
transport equipment;
(iii) costing of timber extraction operations;
(iv) evaluation of international tenders; and
(v) drawing up specifications for equipment utilized in
tropical timber extraction.
(d) be able to undertake frequent travel within the Project
area and stay in the forest; and
(e) possess ability to teach operators how to operate equipment
efficiently.
4.        The Workshop Engineer would:
(a) be responsible to the Project Director;
(b) assist the Project Implementation Committee;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(c) be responsible for setting up a Project central workshop
and Agency workshops;
(d) assist in the selection and procurement of suitable
workshop equipment for the central workshop and
agency workshops;
(e) assist in evaluation and procurement of new
equipment;
(f) assist in the standardization of equipment;
(g) be responsible for procurement of appropriate spare
parts necessary to rehabilitate timber extraction
equipment existing in the Project area;
(h) be responsible for build-up of operational spare
parts stock and utilization thereof;
(i) be responsible for maintenance and repair of Project
equipment;
(J) be responsible for on-the-job training of workshop
engineers, foremen and mechanics;
(k) organize overseas training of selected workshop
engineers;
(1) assist in preparation of budgets;
(m)  assist in the selection of technical staff.
Qualifications Required:
(a) have a University Degree or equivalent in mechanical
engineering;
(b) have not less than ten years experience in repair and
maintenance of heavy duty earthmoving machinery and
timber extraction equipment;
(c) possess ability to teach repair and maintenance pro-
cedures to all levels of mechanics and engineers;
(d) have experience in:
(i) setting up simple but complete workshop facilities;
(ii) setting up simple but flexible spare parts pro-
curement and distribution system;



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(iii) setting up an efficient stock control of parts;
(iv) establishment of equipment, maintenance and repair
records and job costing methods; and
(v) evaluation of equipment for repairs and maintenance
and preparation of R and M schedules.
(e) be able to undertake frequent travel within the Project
area and stay in the worksites.
3.        The Roads Engineer would:
(a) be responsible to the Project Director;
(b) plan and execute construction and maintenance of access
and feeder roads as required by the Project;
(c) assist the Project Implementation Committee;
(d) assist in the selection and procurement of construction
machinery, tools and supplies;
(e) maintain close liaison with workshop engineers regarding
proper utilization and maintenance of equipment;
(f) assist in the selection of technical staff and other
road construction personnel;
(g) be responsible for on-the-job training programs of road
construction staff;
(h) be responsble for adopting proper safety procedures in
all aspects of construction work;
(i) set up proper work records and costing system; and
(j) be responsible for preparation of road budgets.
Qualifications required:
(a) be a member of a recognized institute of civil engineers
with not less than ten years post-qualification experience;
(b) have extensive experience in appropriate road construction
work, and be technically proficient in:
(i) equipment utilization;
(ii) road survey and design;



ANNEX 9
Page 5
(iii) evaluation of soil types, and their proper use as
road construction material;
(iv) drainage characteristics, and design of drainage
structures;
(v)  economic evaluation of road construction activites;
(vi) short and long term work planning and machine time
scheduling; and
(vii) road maintenance and costing.
(c)  have worked in tropical Asian countries for a minimum of
three years;
(d)  have knowledge and exposure to timber extraction and trans-
portation problems; and
(e)  be able to underake frequent travel to road construction
and maintenance sites and stay in the forest.
4.        The Management Accountant would:
(a)  be responsible to the Project Director;
(b)  assist the Project Implementation Committee;
(c)  work in coordination with the three engineering
specialists in the introduction of improved management
methods and techniques;
(d)  assist in Project procurement procedures;
(e)  assist in the selection of a financial manager to under-
study him, a financial accountant, a cost accountant and
an internal auditor for the PU;
(f)  arrange for a systematic on-the-job training of the staff
referred to in (e);
(g)  set up the accounting organization for the PU including
installation of effective cost accounting, budgetary
control and management information systems;
(h)  establish an internal audit division for the PU;
(i)  institute modern internal control procedures including
inventory management;



ANNEX 9
Page  6
(j) prepare training program for the PU accounting, audit,
and administration staff at all levels, and assist in
carrying out that program;
(k) devise accounting and ststistical records with a view
to work simplification; and
(1) cooperate with the staff of the Director of Commercial
Audits in coordinating annual audit work.
Qualifications required:
(a) be a member of recognized profession accountancy
institute e.g. Institute of Chartered Accountants or
Certified Public Accountants - preferably with a
university degree in business administration/economics
or cost/industrial accountancy qualifications;
(b) have at least ten years post-qualification experience
in financial and management accounting gained from
working in large agro-industrial company - preferably
having worked or employed in forestry or timber industry;
(c) have worked in tropical Asian countries for at least
three years;
(d) have experience in costing, organization and methods,
internal auditing, and staff training;
(e) have experience in procurement procedures and inventorv
management; and
(f) be able to travel frequently to and stay in worksites and forest.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY SECTOR
Feasibility Studies
Description
1.        Burma's forestry sector, with its unique sustainable resource
base, can play an important role in improving the country's economy by
developing forest based industries.
2.        Funds have therefore been provided in the proposed Credit for
detailed studies of the problems and prospects. The studies which would
be undertaken by a firm or firms of consultants would include establish-
ment of priorities and a program for phased development of the industry.
Based on these recommendations to be mutually agreed between IDA and GOB,
the consultants would be required to undertake preparation of projects
for financing - possibly with foreign sources of funds.
3.        These studies would cover:
(a) examination of the TC organization and management
problems with a view to making it an efficient
enterprise capable of undertaking the new forestry
development projects;
(b) review of the existing timber extraction methods aimed
to remove the backlog of girdled teak trees, and to
optimise the extraction of teak and other merchantable
hardwoods;
(c) possibilities of improving the performance (quantity/
quality/cost-wise) of the existing sawmills; scrapping
uneconomic mills, reorganizing work methods and mill
layout; and rehabilitating, modernizing and expanding
mills;
(d) need for new sawmills and to determine the size,
locations and timing the construction thereof;
(e) market prospects for teak and non-teak hardwood logs
and sawnwood (both local and overseas); marketing
strategy, technique and procedures (packing, docu-
mentation, distribution and shipment);



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(f) reorganizing, rehabilitating and expanding as necessary
the three plywood/veneer factories operated by TC;
(g) the feasibility of expanding the plywood/veneer industry
matching with the local and export market potential;
(h) potential for development of allied industries such as
synthetic resins, turpentine and furniture;
(i) potential for setting up pine lumber operations in the
Shan States and/or Chan Hills area;
(j) examination of the pulp and paper industry including
prospects of modifying or increasing pulp production
operations based on bamboo and/or other forest resources;
and
(k) inventory of the forest resources not yet surveyed and
examination of forest management methods in relation to
future development needs of forest based industries.
Terms of reference for these studies (which would be appropriately
coordinated) are in the Appendix.



ANNEX 10
Appendix
Page 1
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma has about 57% of
its land covered in forests. Some 37,000 sq mi of these forests form the
major source of Burma's teak exports. It is estimated that the forests
could sustain an annual allowable cut (AMC) of about 350,000 log tons (LT)
of teak and 2 million LT of other merchantable hardwoods. Due to various
constraints in the past there has accumulated a severe backlog of girdled
teak trees which the Timber Corporation (TC) has planned to remove, in
addition to the AAC, within the next ten years. TC's teak extraction
capacity would therefore have to be increased to 450/500,000 LT during
this period.
2.        Included in Burma's forest resources are an estimated 5,000 sq mi
of readily accessible bamboo with a growing stock of 28 million dry tons;
and 1,400 sq mi of pine. The Forest Department (FD) has extensive and
detailed records on the teak reserves and, to a lesser extent, of
merchantable non-teak hardwoods. The information available on bamboo and
pine resources is however limited.
3.        At the request of the Government of Burma (GOB) an FAO mission
made a preliminary assessment of the potential fields in which forest
resources could be harnessed in accordance with GOB's Twenty-Year
Development Plan. Based on the findings of this mission, GOB has
decided to undertake a series of coordinated feasibility studies for
the development of Burma's forest based industries.
Purpose
4.        The main objective of the studies is to prepare a program for
the systematic development of Burma's forest based industries matched
with country resources base potential. This development could take
place through:
(a) judicious exploitation and regeneration of the
forest resources;
(b) efficient timber extraction and transportation
methods;
(c) removal of unextracted backlog of girdled teak;



ANNEX 10
Appendix
Page 2
(d) increasing the extraction of merchantable non-teak
hardwoods;
(e) conversion of timber logs into sawnwood matching
the quantity and quality requirements of export
and domestic markets;
(f) improving and increasing to the limit of market
potential, plywood and veneer production;
(g) exploring the prospects of expanding the pulp and
paper industry;
(h) setting up new wood based and related industrial
projects, eg., furniture, particle board, fiberboard,
and synthetic resins;
(i) making an inventory of forest resources not yet
surveyed; and
Cj) better utilization of pine, bamboo and other forestry
resources.
GOB's Responsibilities
5.        GOB would cooperate fully with the consultants and take all
other appropriate steps to ensure that the studies are carried out in a
coordinated manner and with due diligence.
6.        GOB would form a steering committee comprising at least
one qualified senior officer each from the Ministry of Planning and
Finance CMPF), Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, Forest Department
(FD), Pulp and Paper Corporation (PPC), TC and Construction Corporation.
This committee would liaise with GOB, IDA and the Consultants, as
necessary, throughout the duration of the studies.
7.        GOB would select, in consultation with IDA and the Consultants,
twelve persons with specializations indicated below; second them for a
period of up to two years to function as local counterparts attached to
the study teams; and arrange for them to be sent overseas for training and
orientation by the consultants for about 2 months prior to the commencement
of field investigations.



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix
Page 3
Senior Economist (from MPF);
Forestry Economist;
General Economist (project oriented);
Marketing Economist;
Forester (from FD);
Logging Engineer;
Sawmill Manager;
Plywood Manager;
Roads Engineer;
Pulp and Paper Specialist (from PPC);
Financial Analyst (project oriented);
Financial Analyst (from State Audit Department).
8.        GOB would arrange for additional local staff, office accomoda-
tion and equipment, local travel and all other services as may be deemed,
from time to time, essential for carrying out the studies.
9.        Details of each field of operations to be covered by the
Studies are stmmarized in the following paragraphs.
Timber Corporation
10.       The current activities of TC would be studied to:
(a) ascertain whether:
(i) some of its present operations should be given
up or transferred to other new or existing
enterprises; and
(ii) new operations should be added to TC's existing
operations so as to rationalize forest based
industries;
(b)  recommend an organizational structure adequate to
carry out efficiently the revised functions
recommended together with:
(i) staffing needs - numbers, levels of responsibility,
quality, training and motivation;
(ii) defined allocation of duties and responsibilities,
and means of coordination of activities within the
TC complex; and
(iii) management, financial and internal controls,
budgetary control, costing, internal audit, and
management information systems;



ANNEX 10
Appendix
Page 4
(c) recommend improved management techniques necessary for
the field and offices:
(i) workstudy and 0 & M;
(ii) management by exception; and
(iii) effective statistical records and filing svstems;
(d) explore the need for mechanization of accounting and records;
(e)  streamline timber marketing procedures;
(f) provide adequate building, transport, communication and
other facilities for TC's scattered operating units; and
(g) recommend an effective set-up for liaison with Project
Unit (PU):
(i) training of TC's key personnel through PIT;
(ii)  collecting from PU information useful in TC's
other operations; and
(iii)  implementation in TC of improved methods tested
in PIJ.
Timber Extraction Outside the Project Area
11.       Study of the teak and non-teak hardwood extraction operations to:
(a) ascertain:
(i) logged trees awaiting transport to sawmills
and depots;
(ii) girdled teak trees awaiting felling; and
(iii) annual allowable cut (AAC) of teak and hardwood;
(b) the state of the existing equipment would be examined to
ascertain:
(i) their effective life;
(ii) rehabilitation possibilities; and
(iii) extraction capacity, year by year, of usable
machinery.



ANNEX 10
Appendix
Page 5
(c) examine infrastructure available - roads, rail and river;
(d) based on such information, prepare a phased program for:
(i)  additional infrastructure needs;
(ii)  removal of girdled teak in addition to AAC;
(iii)  increased extraction of merchantable non-teak
hardwood having regard to export and local
market potential;
(iv)  machinery and equiDment required for skidding,
transport, road construction, workshops;
(v)  organizational, management and staffing
requirements;
(vi)  marketing program linking with planned
production; and
(vii)  phased sawmilling capacity required.
(e)  The study would determine the extraction operations
in relation to the resource base and the industries
using forest based products as raw materials to
ensure that an integrated approach to the develop-
ment of forest industries as a whole is taken.
(f)  Based on recommendations as may be agreed with GOB,
project reports would be prepared showing the feasi-
bility - technical, commercial, management, financial
and economic - of the recommended actions. The reports
should be in a form suitable for Project evaluation by
GOB and international financing institutions.
S ami 1in
12.       Study the sawmilling industry with a view to recommending
a phased investment:
(a) in order to:
(i)  meet the future quantity and quiality requirements
of the local and foreign markets within limits
placed by the forest resource base and by the
technical and managerial constraints to timber
extraction;



ANNEX 10
Appendix
Page 6
(ii) make saumilling operations financially viable;
(iii)  increase 'value added' element in timber sales -
proportion of converted timber in relation to log
sales to be raised, enabling the country to
obtain the most for the economy; and
(iv) diversify into tertiary products such as
mouldings, doors and window frames and furni-
ture component parts.
(b) The foregoing objectives could be achieved in one or
more ways:
(i)  progressive elimination of uneconomic mills and
rehabilitating and motivating existing mills;
(ii) amalgamation of two or more mills or resiting
existing mills;
(iii)  establishing more mobile mills;
(iv) expanding capacity of mills by modification
of mill machinery; mill layout; work planning;
and working some mills on more than one shift;
(v)  improving log deliverv schedules, improving
technical performance, and improving management
methods;
(vi) upgrading technical, management and supervision
standards;
(vii)  introducing incentive schemes based on productivity;
(viii)  incorporating labor saving devices;
(ix) providing additional capacity by building new mills;
(x)  addition of moulding, planting, and drying equipment;
(xi) providing incentives to private owners to modernize
their mills and increase capacities; and
(xii)  other alternative means.
(c) A phased program should be prepared showing the economics
of alternate courses of recommended action. This would
include models exhibiting the technical, management,
financial and economic aspects.



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix
Page 7
(d) The study would determine the place of the sawmilling
industry in relation to the resource base (including
pine) and other wood using industries to ensure an
integrated approach to the development of forest
industries as a whole is taken.
(e) Based on such recommendations as may be agreed with GOB,
detailed projects should be prepared in a form suitable
for appraisal by GOB and international financing
institutions.
Plywood and Veneer
13.       The study would examine the current operations of the existing
3 factories:
(a) covering:
technical,
managerial,
marketing,
financing, and
economic aspects.
(b) ascertain reasons for current outputs being below
factory capacities;
(c) review raw material supply in relation to:
quantities,
qualities,
delivery arrangements,
costs, and
the needs of other wood using industries.
(d) examine the potential for plywood and veneer products both
in the export and domestic markets.
(e) examine the economics of scrapping, resiting, rehabilitation,
modernization and/or expansion of the existing factories.
(f) assess the need and prospects for new factories having
regard to:
market potential (quantity and quality),
size (larger or smaller units),
timing,
location,
technical, organizational and managerial needs; and
financial and economic costs and benefits.



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix
Page 8
(g)  determine the place of plywood and veneer industry in relation
to the resource base and other wood based industt ies to
ensure an integrated approach to the development of forest
industries as a whole is taken.
(h) based on such recommendations as may be agreed with GOB,
prepare detailed project reports suitable for appraisal
by GOB and international financing institutions.
Pulp and Paper
14.       The study would examine, having regard to existing factories
and market prospects for pulp, newsprint, and other paper products:
(a) the feasibility of:
(i) modernization of existing factories and/or
expanding their capacities;
(ii) setting up new factories; and
(iii) increasing existing sources of raw materials
and/or substitution with other suitable forest
based supply.
(b)  examine the technical, managerial, commercial, financial
and economic problems and prospects in recommending
alternate courses of action;
(c)  the study would determine the place of the pulp and paper
industries in relation to the resource base (including
bamboo and pine) and other wood uising industries to ensure
an integrated approach to the development of forest based
industries as a whole is taken.
(d)  based on such recommendations as may be agreed with GOB,
prepare detailed project reports suitable for evaluation
by GOB and international financing institutions.



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix
Page 9
Wood-Based Panel Products -
15.       The study:
(a) would:
(i) assess the potential for wood based panel products
both in the export and domestic markets;
(ii) determine the availability of fibrous raw materials
in relation to:
-    types;
-    quantity;
-    quality;
-    transportation;
-    costs; and
-    the needs of other wood using industries.
(b) If the results of (a) were positive, the study would
evaluate the:
(i) number, size, type and location of mills required;
(ii) technical, organizational and managerial needs;
(iii) phasing of each project; and
(iv) financial and economic costs and benefits.
(c) As svnthetic resins account for a high proportion (in
particleboard up to 4%) of direct operation costs, the
study would examine the feasibility of establishing
a resin plant in the country.
(d) The study would determine the place of wood based
panel products in relation to the resource base
(including pine and bamboo) and other wood using
industries to ensure an integrated approach is taken
to the development of forest industries as a whole.
(e) Based on such recommendations as may be agreed with
GOB, detailed projects should be prenared in a form
suitable for appraisal by GOB and international financing
institutions.
1/   Includes block-board, particle board and fiberboard (hardboard and
softboard).



ANNEX 10
Appendix
Page 10
Fibrous Raw Material Supply
16.       A prerequisite to all the studies outlined in this Annex is
reliable information on the sustained availability of teak, "In", other
hardwoods, pine and bamboo:
(a) under improved methods of management:
(i) For teak determine:
-    the extent and stocking of teak
resources; and
-    the AAC by end use classes 1/ under
modified and imptoved methods of
management and utilization.
(ii) For In determine:
-    the extent and stock of the "IIn" resource
by accessibility classes in the Schwebo,
Bhamo, East Katha and Margmit forest
divisions;
-    the AAC by end use classes under modified
and improved methods of management and
utilization; and
-    the pulping characteristics by lab, pilot
and commercial trials.
(iii) For Other Hardwoods determine, using new aerial survey
and inventory where necessary:
-    the extent and stock of hardwood resources
by accessibility classes; and
-    the MAC by end use classes under modified
improved methods of management and utilization.
(iv) For Pine determine, using aerial survey and inventory
where necessary:
-    the extent and stock of pine by accessi-
bility classes in the Chin Hills and the
Shan and Kayah States; and
1/ Sawlogs, plylogs, export logs, pulpwood, etc.



ANNEX 10
Appendix
Page 11
-    the AAC by end use classes under modified
and improved methods of forest management
and utilization.
(v) For Bamboo determine, using aerial surveys where
necessary:
-    the extent and stock of bamboo by accessi-
bility classes in the Arakan, Tenazzerim
and Pegu Yoma regions;
-    the AAC bearing in mind the effect of
periodic flowering and accessibility; and
-    the pulping characteristics by lab, pilot
and commercial trials.
(b)  In the light of information develoned on industrial wood
requirements, define the need for further plantation
trials and/or industrial share plantations including
location and species with particular regard to:
(i) clear felling pine and replanting with either
indigenous or exotic species;
(ii) clear felling "In" and replanting with either
same species or fast-growing hardwoods such as
eucalyptus;
(iii) planting pine and/or eucalyptus in areas presently
under bamboo as a supplemental fibre resource when
bamboo flowers; and
(iv) planting teak in suitable clear felled areas of
indigenous forest.






BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Summary of Capital Costs
(Kyat Million)
Years                                                         Years       Years
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5           1-5      Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10          6-10        1-10
Timber Corporation (TC)
Road Construction (Table 2)                       1,419   22,574    3,734    5,440    5,102          38,269      5,358    6,649    3,710    2,551    2,551          20,819      59,088
Timber Extraction (Table 3)                       5,678   15,523   18,659    9,686    4,322          53,868    11,755    7,363    7,507    7,002   13,167           46,794    100,662
Workshop & Admin. (Table 4)                       1,514    3,880        120       156      763        6,433       -         -          320     -         -             320       6,753
Sawmill Rehab. (Table 4)                           -        1,203    1,261        601     -           3,065                                                                      3,065
Sub-total                                    8,611   43,180   23,774   15,883   10,187         101,635    17,113   14,012   11,537    9,553   15,718          67,933    169,568
Tech. Assistance (Table 5)                        1,356    1,299    1,146    1,146         709        5,656                                                                      5,656
Total - TC                                      9,967   44,479   24,920   17,029   10,896         107,291                                                                    175,224
Government (GOB)
Forest Department (Table 7)                        -          702       702       196     -           1,600                                                                      1,600
Feasibility Studies (Table 6)                      -        2,763    2,750    1,032       -           6,545                                                                      6,545
Total - GOB                                      -        3,465    3,452    1,228       -           8,145                                                                      8,145
Total TC & GOB                                    9,967   47,944   28,372   18,257   10,896         115,436    17,113   14,012   11,537    9,553   15,718           67,933    183,369
Physical Contingenciesll                            524    2,579    1,599    1,096          727       6,525        947       791       668      569       877        3.852      10.377
Total Subject to Price
Contingencies                                  10,491   50,523   29,971   19,353   11,623         121,961    18,060   14,803   12,205   10,122   16,595           71,785    193,746         q o
Price Contingencies2/                             2.050   15,800   12,600   10,900    8,800          50,150    15,372   15,097   14,213   14,869   25,943           85.494    135,644          M
Total Costs                                    12,541   66,323   42,571   30,253   20,423         172,111    33,432   29,900   26,418   24,991   42,538          157,279    329,390
1/  10% on Civil Works and 5% on all other items.
2/ See note 9 on page 1 of Annex 13.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Road Construction - Cost Estimates
(Kyat 000)
Sub-                                                          Sub-
Total                                                         Total
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5        1-S    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10        6-10
Equipment and Spares
Equipment 1/                          629     18,735        -          526       -       19,890   2,608    4,098       1,159        -           -       7,865
Operating Spares                      -          -          118     1,243      1,465      2,826     731       732        732        732         732     3,659
Survey Instruments & Tools            275        198        -          -         -          473     199                                                   199
Sub-total                       904      18,933        118     1,769      1,465    23,189   3,538    4,830        1,891        732        732    11,723
Civil Works
Equipment Operating (base)            111      1,279      1,258      1,298     1,273      5,219     638       637         637       637         637     3,186
Equipment Energy Cost
Supplement/                          44        508        503       519        509     2,083      255      255         255        255         254     1,274
Construction Supplies                 -          800        800        800       800      3,200     400       400        400        400         400     2,000
Labor                                 360      1.054      1,055      1,05h     1.055      4,578     527       527        527        527         528     2.636
Sub-total                       515       3,641      3,616     3,671      3,637    1c,080   1,820    1,819        1,819      1,819      1,819      9,096
Total                               1.419     22,574      3,734     5,440      5,102    38,269   5.358    6,649         3,710     2,551       2,551    20,819
Foreign Exchange                      715     15,835         98      1,436     1,156    19,240   2,737    4,171         1,589       608         607      9,712
Local Currency Costs                  704      6,739      3,636     4,004      3,946    19,029   2,621    2,478        2,121      1,943       1,944    11,107
/ Includes 20% for initial spares.
j  40% of base cost representing a 100%o increase in fuel costs.
'CD 
N) I-



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Timber Extraction Capital Cost Estimates
(Kyat 000)    -
Sub-                                                           Sub-
total                                                          total1,
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5       1-5     Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10         6-10-
Felling Saws                  8        36         -         41          7         92       34          5        43          -          61        143
Skidders (Large)            535         -       1,339      535          -     2,409       535         -      1,339        803           -      2,677
Skidders (Small)            334         -         999      666        333     2,332       333         -      1,665        500        165       2,663
Tractors for Skid-tracks   301           -      1,206         -     1,206     2,713         -          -       603          -       1,205      1,808
Loaders                       -          -      2,300    4,344      1,022     7,666         -          -     2,300      4,344         766      7,410
Wheel-cranes                588          -        294         -     1,177      2,059        -        588         -        883         589      2,060
Trucks 4 x 2                  -          -        469       283         -        752      472        283         -        472           -      1,227
Trucks 6 x 4                  -    10,380       6,487    1,557          -    18,424   10,381      6,487      1,557          -      10,380     28,805
Towing Launches               -     2,187       2,188       547         -     4,922         -                    -          -           -           -
Initial Spares              369     2,920       3,377    1,713        577     8,956         -          -         -          -           -           -
Rehabilitation of
Existing Equipment      3,543       _             -                                                  -          -         -           -           -
TOTAL                 5,678    15,523      18,659    9,686      4,322    53,868  1,755        7,363     7,507      7002       13,16      46 793 
Foreign Exchange Costs   4,318    11,804       15,013    8,073      3,841    43,049    9,134       5,724     6,370      6,042      10,406      37,676        t|x
Local Costs               1,360     3,719       3,646    1,613        481    10,819    2,621       1,639     1,137        960       2,760       9,117
1/ Purchases from yeats 6-10 are mostly replacements.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Sawmills. Workshops & Administration - Project Cost Estimates
(Kyat 000)
Sub-total                                                               Sub-total2/
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          1-5         Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10              6-10   -
Office Buildings                        95                                                      95                                                                      -
Workshop Buildings                     161                                                     161
Stores and Other Buildings              162                                                    162                                                                       -
Vehiclesl/                             916       1,900        -          156        763     3,735            887       695          -         763         887         3,232
Office Equipment                       180          60                                         240            60         60          60        -           -            180
Research Materials                     -           120       120                               240           -          -           -          -           -            -
Agencies and Field Workshop
Equipment_/                                      800                                        800                                   120                                 120
Prome Workshop Equipment-                        1,000                                      1,000                                   200                                 200
Sawmill Rehabilitation & Spares        -         1.203    1261           601        -       3,065                                                                    _
Total                          1,514       5.083    1,381          757        763      9.498           947        755         380       763          887         3,732
Foreign Exchange Costs                 795       4,049       966         631        534     6,975            723        575         315       534         683         2,830
Local Costs                            719       1,034       415         126        229      2,523           224        180          65       229         204           902
1/ Includes 20% for initial spares.
2/  Replacements.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Technical Assistance - Project Cost Estimates
(Kyat   000)
Total        Rate Per-/
Man-months     Man-months      Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5      Total
Project Unit
Resident Specialists
Airtickets and Travel                                         96.2       96.2        96.2       96.2        96.2        481.0
Workshop Engineer              54              20.4          245.3      245.3       245.3      245.3       122.7      1,103.9
Logging Engineer               60              20.4         245.3       245.3       245.3      245.3       245.3      1,226.5
Road Engineer                  60              20.4         245.3       245.3       245.3      245.3       245.3      1,226.5
Management Accountant          48              20.4         245.3       245.3       245.3      245.3         -          981.2
Sub-total                                              1,077.4    1,077.4    1,077.4    1,077.4         709.5     5,019.1
Training Abroad
Project Director                1              12.0            -          -          12.0         -          -           12.0
Deputy Project Director         1              12.0            -          -           -         12.0         -           12.0
Workshop Engineers (3)          6               6.3            -          -          18.8        18.8        -           37.6
Extraction Engineers (6)        12              6.3            -           -         37.5        37.5         -           95.0
Sub-total                                                                        68.3        68.3                    136.6
Sawnilling
Airtickets and Travel                                         48.1       48.1                                            96.2
Supervising Specialist         12              28.9          173.2      173.2         -           -          -          346.4
Mill Managers Training (4)      8               7.2           57.7        -           -           -          -           57.7
Sub-total                                                279.0       221.3                                           500.3
Total                                                        1,356.4    1,298.7    1,145.7    1,145.7        709.5      5,656.0
Foreign Exchange Costs                                       1,168.8    1,096.7       972.5       972.5      601.3      4,811.8
Local Currency Costs                                           187.6       202.0      173.2       173.2       108.2       844.2
Notes: I/  Includes international travel, subsistenceand local costs (rounded).
_                                                                                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Feasibility Studies Cost Estimates
(Kyat '000')
Man-                                                        Local
No. of     Months      Year    Year   Year                Foreign       Currency
Persons    Total!/       2       3       4     Total      Exchange      Costs
Consultancy Personnel
Studies ,oordination                                 18
Forestry Economist                        1          12
Marketing Economists                      2          12
Forestry Specialist                       1           6
Extraction Specialist                     1          10
Roads Engineer                            1           6
Sawmill Specialist                        1          12
Wood Based Panel Specialist                1          9
Pulp and Paper Specialist                 1          12
Mechanical Engineers                      2           6
Workstudy Engineer                        1           6
Systems Analyst                           1           6
Financial Analysts and Economists         4          30
145       1,732   1,732    721    4,185        4,185
International Travel                                            150     150      95      395         395           -
Counterpart Personnel
Salaries                                 12         228         130      173     42      345          -           345
International Travel & Subsistence       12                     230                      230         230           -
Miscellaneous Expenses                                           521     695    174    1,390          -         1,390
(including subsistence, local
travel, office and staff expenses)
2,763   2,750  1,032    6,545       4,810        12735         1
__________ __                                                                                                 o(DX
1/  Consultants are costed at an average of US$6,000 per man-month.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Forestry Department - Capital Cost Estimates-
(Kyats '000)
-----------------------------------Year:--------------___________________
2                          3                         4
Type of Equipment                LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL      LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
Inspection Vehicles               23.1    90.0   113.1        23.1    90.0   113.1      11.5    45.0    56.5
(4 x 4)
Pickups (4x 2)                    24.2    97.0   121.2        24.2    97.0   121.2      12.1    48.5    60.6
Trucks 5-6 Ton                    54.8   220.0   274.8        54.8   220.0   274.8        -        -       -
Motor Cycles                      14.5    34.0    48.5        14.5    34.0    48.5       7.3    28.1    35.4
Initial Spare Parts               36.9    85.0   121.9        36.9    85.0   121.9       9.4    28.8    38.2
Handling and Inland
Freight                         22.2       -     22.2       22.2      -     22.2       5.6       -      5.6
TOTAL                 175.7   526.0   701.7      175.7   526.0   701.7      45.9   150.4   196.3
1/ No expenditure in the first year or after fourth year.
I-'
(D X






ANNEX 12
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                  Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                                  at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1975  - March                                               290
June                                            1,000
1976  -  September                                        3,170
December                                        5,370
March                                           7,590
June                                            9,340
1977  -  September                                      10,850
December                                       12,210
March                                          13,540
June                                           14,930
1978  -  September                                      16,420
December                                       17,220
March                                          18,150
June                                           19,030
1979  -  September                                      19,860
December                                       20,440
March                                          21,020
June                                           21,470
1980  -  September                                      22,040
December                                       22,590
March                                          23,170
June                                           24,000






ANNEX 13
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Notes on Financial Statements
1.        Financial year for PU would be a April/March year.
2.        Costs and benefits are calculated for a ten-year period.
3.        PU would commence extraction operations from January 1975.
4.        Timber output for year one i.e. 1974/75 would therefore be only
25% of PU's planned production.
5.        For ROR(F) incremental production is measured after deducting the
following proportions from PU's planned timber output:
1974/75   -   100%
1975/76   -    75%
1976/77   -    50%
1977/78   -    25%
6.        Direct Costs incurred in operation are charged to incremental costs
as a proportion incremental output bears to total PU's planned output.
7.        Indirect costs have been taken in toto as incremental costs on a
time basis.  50% has been charged in respect of 1974/75 and 100% in subsequent
years.
8.        Physical contingencies are included at 5% flat on all capital costs
except roads civil works costs to which 10% has been added.
9.        Price contingencies on all capital costs are charged at the undernoted
percentages compounded annually up to 1980;
Equipment           Civil Works           Services
1974                14                  18                    7
1975                11                  15                    7
1976-80              7.5                12                    7
10.       Price contingencies are ignored in Rate of Return calculations but
included in the Project Unit Cash Flow statement.
11.       Prices used to evaluate incremental production are in Annex 15, Table 6.
12.       Foreign exchange conversions are made at K 4.81 to US$1.00.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
13.       PU's interest payments on IDA loans and Union Bank borrowings are
calculated at 7-1/4% p.a. and 6% p.a. respectively.
14.       Income Tax on PU's profit is calculated at 50% on 'taxable income'.
PU's taxable income has been arrived after deducting the following items
from the annual Operating Surplus:
(a) Capital Allowance calculated at 20% p.a.; and
(b) Interest payments.
Income Tax on Specialists' remuneration has been calculated at 33-1/3% on
salaries net of taxes (being the equivalent of 25% payable on gross salaries).
15.       Fuel cost increase since appraisal time is taken as 100% and included
in the statements under a special heading "Energy Cost Supplement."



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Unit - Operating Costs
(Kyat '000')
Sub-total                                                                Sub-total       Total
Yders                                                                    Years         Years
Year l     Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5           1 to 5      Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10              6 to 10       I to 1O
Production (Log Tons '000')
Teak                                           95        100        100         100        100          495         100          92         83          65          65           405            900
Hardwood                                       62         62         62          72         82          340           92        102        112         122         143           571            911
Direct Costs
Skid - tracks                                 178        178        598        621         644        2,219         667         651        629        564          613        3,124          5,343
Felling and Skidding                        5,443      5,543      6,247      6,379      6,528        30,140       6,616       6,221      5,752      4,701        4,951       28,241         58,383
Log Transportation                          7,063      8,488      9,480      9,756    10,538         45,325      11,546     12,063    12,289       12,087       13,378       61,363        106,6a8
Log Yard Handling                             596        681        681        686         708        3,352         919       1,018      1,113      1,157        1,478         5,685         9,037
Royalty                                    13,764    1448    14,448    1          4,573    14,699    71,932      14,646    13,678    12,576        10,253       10,501        61,654       133,586
Sub-total           27,044    29,338    31,454    32,015    33,117           152,968       34,394    33,631    32,359        28,762      30,921       160,067        313,035
Indirect Costs
Road Maintenance                               39        176        208         258        272          953          136        136        136         136         136           680          1,633
Office and Administration                     255        430        430         430        430        1,975          430        430        430         430         430         2,150          4,125
Supervision Vehicles                          350        626        626        835         835        3,272         835         835        835         835         835         4,175          7,447
Salaries and Wages                            920      1,565      1,565      1,565       1,565        7,180       1,565       1,565      1,5        1,565        1,565         7,825        15,005
Sub-total            1,564      2,797       2,829      3,088      3,102        13;380       2,966      Z,966       2,966      2,966        2,966       14,830         28,210
Sub-total (Direct and Indirect)              28,608    32,135    34,283    35,103    36,219           166,348       37,360    36,597    35,325        31,728      33,887       174,897        341,245
Less - Initial Spares (included
in Capital Cost Estimates)            369      2,920      3,377      1,713         577        8,956                                           -       _                               8,956
Total Base Costs              28,239    29,215    30,906    33,390    35,642            157,392      37,360    36,597    35,325         31,728      33,887       174,897       332,289
Add - Energy Cost Supplement-                 2l171      2,215       2,469      2,822      3,141        12,818       3,407       3,438      3,412      3,221        3,507    __16398 5          23
TOTAL            30,410    31,430    33.375    36,212    38,783            170,210      40,767    40,035    38,737         349L4       3 94         191,882        362,092 
1  o4
I/ 1S% of Total Base Costa (exclusive of royalties) representing a 100% increase for fuel.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Projected Incremental ProductionI/
(Log Tons '000')
Year 2/                              Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10                Totals
Green Teak (Export)
2 Stars                               0.4        0.7        1.1        1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4         1.4          10.6
3 Stars                               0.5        1.1        1.6        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1         2.1          15.8
4 Stars and above                     0.4        0.9        1.4        1.7        1.7        1.7        1.7         1.7        1.7          12.9
Sub-total                           1.3        2.7        4.1        5.2        5.2        5.2        5.2        5.2        5.2           39.3
Dry Teak (Export)
2 Stars                               4.0        8.0       11.9       15.9       15.9       14.6       13.0        9.9         9.9         103.1
3 Stars                               4.6        9.3       13.8       18.5       18.5       16.9       15.0       11.5        11.5         119.6
4 Stars and above                     0.8        1.7        2.6        3.4        3.4        3.0        2.7         2.1        2.1          21.8
Sub-total                           9.4       19.0       28.3       37.8       37.8       34.5       30.7       23.5       23.5          244.5
Teak to T.C Sawmills (Export & Local)
1 Star                                8.2       16.1       24.4       32.6       32.7       29.9       26.8       20.5        20.5         211.7
2 Stars3/                             4.6        9.2       13.9       18.5       18.5       17.0       15.5       12.0        12.0         121.2
Sub-total                          12.8       25.3       38.3       51.1       51.2       46.9       42.3       32.5       32.5          332.9c
Total (Teak)                            23.5       47.0        70.7       94.1       94.2       86.6       78.2       61.2       61.2         616.7
Hardwood (Export)
Groups I and II                       0.7        1.5        2.2        4.9       13.6       20.0       23.0        26.0       32.0         123.9
Group  III                             -          -           -          -          -        1.4         7.1       11.8       25.2          45.5
Sub-total                           0.7        1.5        2.2        4.9       13.6       21.4       30.1       37.8        57.2         169.4
Hardwood to T.C Mills
Groups I and II                       5.5       11.5       19.3        26.7       20.6       17.0       17.0       17.0       17.0         151.6
Group  III                            9.3       18.0       32.2        50.0       57.1      62.7        63.6       65.5       66.5         424.9
Sub-total                          14.8       29.5       51.5       76.7       77.7       79.7       80.6       82.5        83.5         576.5      z
Total Hardwood                           15.5       31.0       53.7       81.6       91.3      101.1      110.7      120.3      140.7          745.9  
Total (Teak & Hardwood)                  39.0       78.0      124.4      175.7      185.5      187.7      188.9      181.5      201.9        1,362.6
1/ The quantities shown are net of loss on account of river drafting and log-end wastage.
2/ No incremental production in Year 1.
3/ Representing 50% of 2 Star logs delivered at Rangoon Log Depots.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
1./
Projected Incremental Revenue
(Kyats Million)
Year./                            Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Total
Green Teak Logs (Export)
2 Stars                               0.80       1.38       2.16       2.75       2.75       2.75       2.75       2.75        2.75       20.84
3 Stars                               1.36       2.99       4.36       5.70       5.70       5.70       5.70       5.70        5.70       42.91
4 Stars and above                     2.82       6.34       9.86      11.98      11.98      11.98      11.98      11.98       11.98       90.90
Sub-total                          4.98      10.71      16.38      20.43      20.43      20.43      20.43      20.43      20.43       154.65
Dry Teak Logs (Export)
2 Stars                               6.26      12.53      18.64      24.90      24.90      22.86      20.36       15.50      15.50      161.45
3 Stars                              11.34      22.93      34.03      45.62      45.62      41.68      36.99       28.36      28.36      294.93
4 Stars and above                     4.93      10.47      16.02      20.95      20.95      18.48      16.63       12.94      12.94      134.31
Sub-total                         22.53      45.93      68.69      91.47      91.47      83.02      73.98      56.80       56.80      590.69
Dry Teak for T.C. Mills2/              11.83      23.38      35.39      47.31      47.31      43.34       39.09      30.03      30.03      307. 71
(1 Star and 2 Stars)                  _                                              _                  _____
Total Teak                           39.34      80.02    120.46    159.21    159.21    146.79    133.50    107.26    107.26   1,053.05
Hardwood Logs (Export)
Groups I and II                       0.50       1.07        1.58       3.51       9.74      14.32      16.47      18.62      22.91       88.72
Group III                               -          -          -          -          -         0.36       1.81       3.01       6.43        11.61
Sub-total                          0.50       1.07       1.58       3.51       9.74      14.68      18.28       21.63      29.34      100.33
Hardwood for T.C Mills
Groups I and II                        1.11       2.31       3.88       5.37       4.41       3.42       3.42       3.42        3.42       30.76
Group III                             1.21       2.34        4.19       6.50       7.42       8.15       8.27       8.52       8.65        55.25
Sub-total                          2.32       4.65       8.07      11.87      11.83      11.57      11.69       11.94      12.07       86.01
Total Hardwood                       2.82       5.72        9.65      15.38      21.57      26.25      29.97      33.57      41.41       186.34      X X
Total Revenue                          42.16       85.74    130.11    174.59    180.78    173.04    163.47    140.83    148.67   1,239.39_
I/  Exclusive of Sales Tax 10% on exports and 5% on local sales
2/ No incremental revenue in Year 1.
3/ Production sold as conversion - 81% for export at K1089 and 19% for local sales at K221.
4/ 1972/73 prices.



BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return Calculations
(Kyat million)
Years                          1974/752/  1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84
Teak Production
Planned Output3/       4/           22.2        94.2       94.2        94.2        94.2        94.2       86.6        78.2        61.2        61.2
Without Project Output-             22.2        70.7       47.2        23.5                -           -           -                 -           -
Incremental Output                    -         23.5       47.0        70.7        94.2        94.2       86.6        78.2        61.2        61.2
Hardwood Production'l/
Planned Output                      15.4        61.5       61.5        71.5        81.5        91.3       101.1      110.7       120.3       140.7
Without Project Output              15 4        46.0        30.5       17.8           -          -           -           -           -           -
Incremental Output                    -         15.5       31.0        53.7        81.5        91.3      101.1       110.7       120.3       140.7
Total Inc. Output (Table 2)           _         39.0        78.0      124.4       175.7       185.5       187.7      188.9       181.5       201.9
Incremental Revenue at
(Table 3)                           -        42.2        85.7       130.1       174.5       180.5      173.0       163.5       140.8       148.7
BENEFITS
Incremental Sales Revenue-            -         21.1       63.9       107.9       152.3       177.5       176.8      167.6       152.2       144.7
COSTS
Capital Costs6/                     10.5        46.9        26.3        18.1       11.5        18.1        14.8        12.2        10.1        16.6
Operating Costs-
Direct8/                           -          6.6       14.1        22.7        32.5        34.4        33.6       32.4        28.8        30.9
Indirect8/                        0.8         2.8        2.8         3.1         3.1         3.1         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0
Energy Cost Supplemene9/           -          0.6        1.2         1.9         3.1         3.4         3.4        3.4         3.2         3.5
Export Sales Commission-              -          0.8         2.4        3.9         5.5         6.3         6.1         5.5         4.8        4.2
Sales Taxll/                          -          2.1         6.2       10.4        14.5        16.8        16.3        15.4        13.6       12.6
Incremental Costs                   11.3        59.8        53.0       60.1        70.2        82.1       77.2         71.9       63.5        70.8
1/  Financial years April 1 to March 31.
2/ Three months production.
3/ Net volume after deduction log losses.
4/  100%, 75%, 50% and 25% of planned production for 74/75 75/76, 76/77 and 77/78 respectively.
5/  Average 6 months lag between time of extraction and sales.
6/  Including physical contingencies but excluding price contingencies.
7/  Excluding depreciation.  Including 0.5M interest on overdraft in 1974/75.                                                                           w1
8/  See Note 6 on Annex 13, page 1.
9/  See Note 15on Annex 13, page 2.
10/ 4% on FOB prices.
11/  10% on Exports and 5% on local sales.



ANNEX 13
Table 5
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Unit - Cash Flow
(Yyat million)
74/75-_      75/76       76/77       77/78        78/79       79/80       80/81        81/82       82/83       83/84
SOURCES
1/
Revenue-                                             -          119.9       149.1        149.3       150.4       154.4        154.6       147.4       132.6        127.9
Less Operating Costst3                              8.8          31.4        33.4         36.2        38.8        40.9         40.0        38.8        35.0         37.4
Net Revenue Surplus (deficit)                      (8.8)         88.5       115.7        113.1       111.6       113.5        114.6       108.6        97.6         90.5
Loans:
IDA (foreign exchange)                              9.0          43.3        23.8         16.7        12.7
Union Bank (capital cosss)                          3.5            -            --          -           -
Union Bank (overdraft)5                             9.-            -            -           -           -
Sub-total                                    21.5           43.3        23.8         16.7        12.7
Total Receipts                               12.7          131.8       139.5        129.8       124.3       113.5       114.6       108.6         97.6        90.5
APPLICATION
6/
Foreign Currency                                    9.0          43.3         23.8        16.7        12.7        22.3         19.8        17.0        16.0         27.8
Local Currency                                      3.5          17.1         11.8        10.6         9.7         11.1        10.1         9.4          9.0        14.7
Sub-total                                   12.5            60.4        35.6        27.3         22.4        33.4        29.9         26.4        25.0        42.5
Taxation                                            -            36.0        46.0         42.o        39.0         37.0        40.0        37.0         32.0        27.0
Debit Servicing.
IDA - Principal7,                                                                                                (8/
Interest-                                    -              2.9         4.8         6.3          7.3      ( 15.2        15.2         15.2        15.2        15.2
Union Bank - Overdraft:
Principal                                    -             12.5
Interest 9/                                 0.2            0.8
Sub-total                                    0.2            13.3
Total Payments                              12.7           112.6        86.4        75.6         68.7        85.6         85.1        78.6        72.2         84.7
Annual Surplus                                      -            19.2         53.1         54.2        55.6        27.9        29.5         30.0        25.4         5.8
1/  From all timber extracted after January, net of export sales commission 4% on FOB and sales tax.
2/ Only 3 months operations Jan/March 1975.
3/ Excluding depreciation of fixed assets.
4/ Ignoring income tax on profits.
5/ Temporary borrowing to meet revenue deficit.
6/ Inclusive of price contingencies.
7/ Calculated at 7k% per annum.
8/ Ten-year annuities at 7k27.
9/  Calculated at 6% per annum.






ANNEX 14
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Annual Audit Guidelines
1.        The Director of Commercial Audits (DCA) would submit both
short-form and long-form reports.
2.        These reports would be addressed to the Managing Director,
as chief executive of the Timber Corporation, and copied to the
Project Director.
3.        When a qualified opinion is offered by DCA in his short-form
report, the opinion paragraph of the report should be modified in such
a way as to make clear the nature of the qualification. It should refer
specifically to the subject of the qualification and of the effect on
the financial position and results of operations, if reasonably determinable.
4.        The audit would be carried out in conformity with generally accepted
auditing standards which include, in addition to adherence to accounting
principles which are generally accepted, standards of preparation, standards
of field and office records, standards of supervision, review, reporting
and disclosure.
5.        In case generally accepted auditing standards could not be
followed, DCA should expressly state so, indicating specifically the
circumstances.
6.        Verification of assets and liabilities should cover:
(a) cash and bank balances;
(b) timber stocks;
(c) other inventories; and
(d) fixed assets - construction machinery, extraction
equipment, vehicles; workshops and office equipment,
animals and buildings.
Verification should include physical examination and test checks; examina-
tion of records and expenditure; and obtaining of certificates independent-
ly from Union Bank and other custodians of assets, contractors, suppliers,
debtors and creditors.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
7.        The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report.
Appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and comments) of
items in the various certified financial statements should be included
in the long-form report.
8.        Certified statements would include:
(a) a balance sheet of the PU;
(b) consolidated profit and loss account for the PU;
(c) profit and loss statement for each of the PU's extraction
Agencies, workshops and operating cost centers;
(d) sources and application of funds;
(e) fixed assets showing additions, disposals, depreciation
and written down values;
(f) non-recurring expenses;
(g) miscellaneous income and expenditure; and
(h) age classification of debtors and creditors.
9.        All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures
for the preceding years.
10.       Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would include:
(a) implementation of recommendations made by DCA in previous year;
(b) management and organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d) unit costs;
(e) production and prices;
(f) financial and field controls;
(g) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(h) inventory control and stock levels;
(i) adherence to sound accounting standards;
(j) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(k) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position of the PU.



ANNEX 15
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Markets and Marketing
1.        The world demand outlook for teak and other tropical hardwoods
is very promising. World import demand is expected to grow at about
6.0 to 6.5% per annum (in round wood equivalent volume) during the
1970 decade, and prices of logs are anticipated to rise markcedlv in
the second half of the decade. 1/
2.        Consumption in the main importing countries has been increasing
at 12.3% per annum from 7.3 million m3 in 1955, to 33.2 million m3 in
1968. Japan, Western Europe and the USA are the principal areas import-
ing tropical hardwood. Past and projected demand for tropical hardwoods
is summarized in Table 1. It will be seen from these projections that,
by 1980, USA and Japan would account for three-quarters of the consumotion
in the world outside the tropical areas. Tropical Asia leads Africa and
Latin America both in annual production and export supply (Table 2). De-
mand prospects for tropical hardwood produced by Burma and other countries
in the Asia-Pacific Region in the next decade or so are expected to be favor-
able particularly in the Japanese and USA markets.
3.        It will be seen from Table 3 that Burma ranks relatively low
among Asian countries in both production and export of industrial hard-
woods. However, Burma maintains its oride of place in teak and is in
a position to increase its annual production of teak from its past level
of about 300,n00 LT to 450,000/500,000 LT on a sustainable basis over the
next ten years. The annual production of other hardwoods too could be
increased by almost 200% to about 2 million LT.
4.        The other significant factors bearing on the examination of
market prospects for Burma's industrial timber production are:
(a) Burma teak is a unique product due to its technical
features and longstanding world-wide reputation;
(b) the country exports almost all of its teak production;
(c) despite the vary favorable market conditions Burma's
exports have declined from 154,000 tons in 1963 to
127,000 tons in 1971;
(d) 97Z of all non-teak hardwoods produced is consumed
within the country; and
1/   IBRD Economic Staff Working Paper No. 136, October 1972.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
(e) Burma's economy is centrally planned and the split
between export and local consumption of timber is
decided by the Government and not by market forces.
5.        Burmese non-teak hardwood shows an extremely modest participa-
tion in the world market. Exports reached a maximum of some 22,500 LT in
FY1972 while planned exports for coming years are estimated at around ten
times this volume. Even if this optimistic projection materializes, Burma's
share of exports would represent less than 1% of the world's hardwood import
demand for 1975. Thus Burmese non-teak hardwoods face an extremely elastic
demand in the international markets. Burma should be in a position to sell
all the hardwoods she can produce or wants to at the world market prices
provided the timber meets world market specifications.
6.        As in the case of other tropical hardwoods, the consensus of
several independent studies is optimistic with respect to future demand
for teak. Burma teak is a special case, all by itself, in the tropical
hardwood market. Burma and Thai teak is preferred to teak from Indonesia.
The competitive position of Thailand is weak. Thus Burma teak, unlike
other hardwoods, does not face a highly elastic demand. The country
is therefore in a position to "administer" the teak markets to a
considerable extent, adjusting prices and sales volumes in a concerted
fashion. Though this situation offers interesting commercial possibili-
ties, it also requires careful handling, if today's favorable (for
Burma) state of affairs is to be maintained.
7.        Except for brief periods, Burma teak has enjoyed, for decades,
a very strong position in the international market. This has been
particularly true for the high quality veneer logs and the better grades
of conversions. Facing a sellers' market, the country has been unable
to fulfill its contracted sales, and shipments have persistently fallen
behind outstanding commitments on account of production shortfalls.
A measure of the demand pressure, particularly on the better qualities,
is evidenced by the need for TC to establish a rationing system to allot
the products among the various buyers. 1/ The international market surge
observed during 1973 has made the above situation even more marked, in
spite of successive price escalations.
8.        Some 46% of Project teak production would be exported as
logs, and 23% of non-teak hardwood from the Project area would be
disposed of in log form in the local and export markets. The remaining
output must be converted before sale. Teak conversions are meant for
export, and only about 20% which fails to meet the international market
standards finds its way into the local markets.
1/ TC's Marketing Department has a set of rules to "select" buyers and
to allocate annual quota of teak logs for each registered buyer.



AI'NEX 15
Page 3
9.        Export sales, apart from occasional operations through bilateral
government agreements, are made both via approved agents or direct buyers.
The agents, who presently number 34, act as promoters and brokers, through
whom sales are negotiated and finalized. They are paid a commission cal-
culated at 4% of the FOB values of concluded transactions. GOB's policy
has been to encourage direct sales to end-users seeking to eliminate the
middlemen. As of mid-1973, some 140 buyers dealt directly with TC. Sales
are carried out following three different procedures:
(a) ordinary sales, that apply to sawn teak and low
quality logs, made through the normal stages of
enquiry, offers, acceptance and contract, at
prices established by TC - and published in the
'official price list';
(b) sales by allocation (to selected agents and
customers), made through a quota system, of
the scarce, better quality logs; prices are
charged on the basis of TC's Price List; and
(c) sales by sealed tenders of the best quality
teak logs. After the tender submission deadline,
bids are opened in the presence of TC officers
and buyers (or their representatives), and award
made to highest bidder.
Details of Burma teak exports between 1967 and 1972 and an-icipated over-
seas demand are shown in Table 4.
10.       Despite the sharp increase in the export volumes reported for
recent years, 1/ international markets remain relatively unimportant for
Burma's non-teak hardwoods. It is true that, unlike teak, non-teak
hardwood faces stiff foreign competition because several countries in
the Asia-Pacific region have both rich forest resources and considerable
experience in the international marketing of tropical hardwood logs,
sawnwood, plywood and veneer. Yet, in the wake of a brisk international
demand for raw materials, Burma's non-teak hardwoods too are in a se11ers
market. Here again, as in the case of teak, TC has been unable to honor
all its export commitments on account of production problems. Between
1969 and 1972, only 50% of the contracted log sales and 68% of the con-
versions were actually shipped.
11.       Domestic lumber sales are mostly non-teak hardwood since teak
[.roduction is geared towards the export markets. A vast majority of
Burma's domestic requirements (and consumption) is "centrally planned".
In FY72 Government agencies directly absorbed around 40% of the domestic
1/   Total shipments for logs and conversions increased from 1,783 LT
equivalent in FY69 to 22,500 LT in FY72.



'PNEX 15
Page 4
consumption of sawnwood and plywood. 1/ The remaining 60% went to private
users whose consumption is planned through Government control of the
building plans. Evidence of this official approval of plans must be
presented to TC before sales of wood are approved. Local sales of logs
are restricted to non-teak hardwood supplied to the Railway Corporation
and to two State-owned match factories. Statistics of recent years show
that about 20%' of the teak and some 97% of the non-teak hardwoods (round-
wood equivalent), produced in Burma, were domestically consumed. Yet TC
estimates that current output satisfies around 60%O of the requirements
(based on written orders) while the remaining 40% is left unfulfilled. 2/
Burma, however, does not import any timber.
12.       As Burma's internal consumption is centrally planned and con-
trolled, the economy's capacity to absorb goods (or services) is deter-
mined by the decisions of the planning bodies which fit the requirements
of the economy to attain planned targets. The "Lontg and Short Term
Development Plan of Burma" 3/ fixes the national priorities for economic
development along with the planned increases in per capita consumption.
The first two priorities of this Plan are: (a) maximum utilization
and export of natural resources, anid (b) industrialization based on
natural resources for the production of consumer goods. In the first
Four-Year Plan, per capita consumption is expected to increase by 2.1%
per annum, while the target for growth in forestry output is fixed at
10%. Within this planning context, the projections of timber require-
ments formulated by the MPF are as shown in Table 5.
13.       Total annual domestic coasumption of sawn lumber for 1972
reached some 380,000 tons (140,C00 tons Government and 240,000 tons
private) while the esti4ate for 1973 comes to 592,000 tonse 'Tne sharp
increase in tne estlmates reflects GOB's desire to increase output to
the point of fulfilling current unsatisfied requirements. In the light
of consumption estimates formtulated by FAO 4/ for a "normal"  d velopment
of demand under the population and income position of Burma, the hPF esti-
mates appear to be realistic.
14.       Prices for domestic sales of sawnwood are fixed by TC administra-
tively on a "cost plus" basis. Both the "cost" and the "plus" result from
1/   Accordinig to information provided by TC this percent has been in-
creasing in recent montrs ar.s is uiv,. estiisLtad to be ;.bout 63%.
2/   For the  'erlo 1 F72 , tne estimates of tie TC Ciow that only 39% of
the Goverti .-t% requirements of sawnwood were actually satisfied.
3/   The 20-Year Pcrspe2ctive Plan.
4/   FAO Indicative World Plan for Agricultural Development s4cws a
sawnwood consuraptIic" in Burma of 630,000 LT by 1975.



ANNEX 15
Page 5
a complex mixture of social, administrative and factual considerations
that leave only slight room for "market" economics as such. The over-
riding consideration behind the pricing policy for domestic sales of
timber is the high social priority attached to housing. Thus the "plus"
factor is held as low as possible. 1/ The prices of inputs that make
the base "cost" are also administratively fixed. According to information
provided by TC, teak prices remained static from 1948 to 1959. Prices
increased by 10% in 1959 from when that level continued through today
without any significant changes. For other hardwoods, prices were
almost static up to 1968, when they were increased by 10%, to stay
almost static through today. Against an inflationary background, static
prices only meant decreasing real prices.
15.       A fair comparison between domestic and export prices is not
easy, considering the sharp quality differentials that, in practice,
separate products of the same description going to one or the other
destination. Exports are manufactured to higher standards. For products
like plywood, for example, domestic prices are between 28 and 40% lower
than exports. Yet, this differential may not be unreasonable, given the
relative quality of both products. In other cases, like teak conversions,
export prices have been as much as 8 times higher than the domestic rates.
Further uncertainties are added to this comparison by the unrealistic
rate of exchange currently assigned to the Kyat vis-a-vis foreign
currencies.
16.       Burma teak exports show a very successful price history.  A
study conducted in the UK indicated that in 1956 the prices of teak were
772% of 1938's as against 550, 326, and 630% for oak, mahogany, and
softwoods, respectively. 2/ Recent trends show that, in spite of the
weak position of tropical hardwood prices, in 1968 and again in late
1971, Burma teak showed a strong position throughout. Between 1968
and 1972, FOB (Rangoon) prices for teak went up between 20% and 43% for
the various qualities, to increase again, in the first six months of 1973;
thus more than doubling them in relation to 1968.
17.       Price projections for the coming years suggest stability for
other tropical hardwoods up to 1975, and price increases thereafter,
resulting from relative scarcity. The experience of recent months
seems to indicate that, with increasing international demand for raw
materials, scarcity has come somewhat earlier than anticipated, thus
providing concrete grounds for good price expectation.
1/   Usually 5%.
2/   FAO/IBRD Report 19/73 BUR 2 of July 1973.



ANNEX 15
Page 6
18.       Timber prices realized by TC in 1972/73 have been assumed for
all financial projections and economic analysis in this report (Table 6).
These average at K 1,725/LT for teak and K 250/LT for other hardwoods.
19.       Teak production from the Project area in FY 73 is estimated at
72,500 LT. Extraction during the first eight years of the Project would
increase teak production from the area by an average of 22,500 LT per year
representing about 6-1/2X of Burma's total output of 350,000 LT. As Burma's
teak is price elastic, this increase could affect prices in the international
markets. However, the prices used in the projections are those of 1972/73
which are on an average 20X lower than current prices. The conservative
prices used should therefore more than compensate any price reduction that
could result from the 6-1/2% increase in supply.



ANNEx 15
Table 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Projected Demand for Tropical Hardwoods
Actual        Projected             Implied Growth Rate
1965   1968   1975   1980   1985   1965-75  1968-75  1975-85
-------- million m3 (r) --          --- percent per annum ---
Importing Areas
Europe               8.4   10.0   12.0  13.0  114.0          3.6    2.6       1.6
United States        3.2    6.4   10.9   14.3   16.0        13.0    7.9       3.9
Japan                9.2   13.7   28.0   37.5   47.0        11.8   10.8       5.3
Rest of the World    2.1    3.1    3.6    4.7    6.0         5.5    2.2       5.4
Sub-total        22.8   33.2   54.5   69.5   83.0         9.1    7.3       4.3
Producing Areas       35.1   38.1   46.3   53.2   61.0         2.8    2.8       2.8
World Total            57.9   71.3  100.8  122.7  144.0        5.7    5.1       3.6
SOURCE: IBRD, "Tropical Hardwood Trade in the Asia-Pacific Region,"
Economic Staff Working Paper No. 136, p.39.



ANNE 15
Table 2
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Comparison of Production and Export
of Tropical Hardwood: 1955 and 1968
(million m3(r))
Region          Production                         Exports
Logs          Processed           Total
Tropical Africa
1955               6.2             2.37             1.01              3.38
1968              12.6             5.98             2.12               8.10
Tropical L. America
1955              15.8             0.39             0.36              0.74
1968              16.5             0.40             0.92              1.32
Tropical Asia
1955              16.4             2.58             1.40              3.97
1968              40.7            20.50             4.00              24.50
Total
1955              38.4             5.34             2.77               8.11
1968              69.8            26.88             7.04             33.92
SOURCE: IBRD, "Tropical Hardwood Trade in the Asia-Pacific Region,"
Economic staff working paper No. 136 p.31



MIE 1%
Table 3
FO)RESTRY PROJElT
1/
Tropical Hardwood Production and Exports 1966
Log            Log          Sawsood
Production       ArPorts        Exports
'000 m3(r)      '000 mn(r)    '000 m (s)
Tropical Asia
Burma              1731               72           100
India              3120              X/A           N/A
Inadonesia         5515             1879           12
M4aEaysia         15189            10514          1154
Philippines       11089             8603           103
Thailand           2546               29           16
New Guinea/         637              103            N/A
Papua
Sub bal 21          39827            21220           1385
Latin America       13909              348            186
Tropical Africa     10914             5775            403
Total             6465o            273h3           1974
1/  Source: IBRI) E-conamic staTf working paper No. 136
pp. 33, 41 and Table A.1.
2/  excluding figures not available (N/A)



Annex 13
Table 4
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Exports of Burma Teak bv Destination and Assessment of
Future Annual Market Potential
Predicted
Logs - tons (LT)           1967/68    1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72            1976-78
U.K.                        2,682       2,463       2,039       3,949       3,010           4,000
W. Germany                  8,592       9,544       6,175      11,046       9,442          11,500
Denmark                    11,195      10,295       7,688       9,858       8,231          11,000
Holland                     3,218       2,319       1,884       2,477       1,556           3,000
Sweden                      1,817       1,786       1,341       1,946       1,477           3,000
Singapore                     -           733       3,155       1,835       1,916           7,500
Hong Kong                     833       2,339         591         596         264           1,000
Japan                       1,351       3,132       3,106       7,745     15,160           17,500
Middle East                   -           -           -           -           _
Rest of World               9,986      11,932       5,580       9,646       6,182          12,000
Total Logs                 39,674      44,543      31,559     49,098      47,238           70,500
Average
Conversions - tons (ST)  1967/68    1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72              1976-78
U.K.                        7,832       6,659       4,490       5,325      4,667            7,500
W. Cermany                  1,096       1,703         935       1,365       1,756           2,000
Denmark                     8,499      10,714       6,802       5,176       8,825          14,500
Holland                     2,621       2,239       1,518       1,203         704           2,500
Sweden                      5,355       6,757       5,358      3,245       3,734            5,500
Hong Kong                  16,630      21,780      17,889      23,217      17,723          28,000
Singapore                  11,327      14,287      13,677     11,023      13,142           17,000
Japan                         500       1,002         891       1,488         113           1,500
Middle East                   -           -           -           -           -            21,000
Rest of World              16,407      20,144      29,370      23,358     22,309           20,500
Total Conversions          70,267      85,285      80,930      75,400     72,973          120,000
Note:   In the absence of.trade indications from Holland, Sweden, Middle East and the Rest
of the World, the historical indication of future demand has been entered to arrive
at a total market potential.
Source:   Timber Corporation and FAO/IBRD/CP.



ANNE 15
Table 5
BURRA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Local Requirements of Sawn Timber
1972-1980
(Tons '000')
(thousand tons)
1973   1974  1975   1976   1977       1978    1979       1980
Teak                     49     50    53      53      56        58       60       62
Government             21     22    23      23     24         26      27        28
Private                28     28    30      30     32         32      33        34
Other Hardwoods         543    559   574    591    609         626      645      663
Government            272    282   293    304    315         327     340       352
Private               271    277   281    287    294         299     305       311
Total           592    609   627    644    665          684     705       725
SOURCE: Ministry of Planning and Finance



Annex 1
Table 6
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Unit Prices - Teak and Hardwood Sales
(Kyats Per Log-Ton Equivalent)
Prices Used
1971/72    1972/73    June 1973          in ROR
Teak Logs (Exports)-                 Average    Average-       Price       Calculations3
Green Teak
2 Stars                             1,400       2,000        2,066           1,966
3 Stars                             2,207       2,750        3,374           2,716
4 Stars and above                   5,404       7,080        8,221            7,046
Dry Teak
2 Stars                             1,296       1,600        1,936           1,566
3 Stars                             2,070       2,500        3,504           2,466
4 Stars and above                   5,291       6,195        6,915            6,161
Hardwood Logs (Exports & Local)
Groups I and II                       644         750          825              716
Group III                             240         289          310              255
4/.
Conversions in TC Mills-
Teak Sawnwood
Export-'                                940       1,197        1,320           1,089
Local Sales                             295         295          330              221
Hardwood Sawnwood6
ex-Groups I and II                      242         242          265             201
ex-Group III                            171         171          190              130
1/ Prices are FOB Rangoon exclusive of marketing costs.
2/ Prices for last quarter estimated for certain grades.
3/ Prices are net of marketing costs K34 per log ton and sawmilling costs K74 for teak
and K41 for hardwood.
4/ Prices are exclusive of marketing and sawmilling costs3
5/  1 log ton yields 26.7 ft3 of lumber.  Prices for 50 ft  are K2,292 and K533 for export
and domestic conversions respectively.                    3
6/  1 log ton yields 35.6 ft3 of lumber.  Prices for 50 ft  are K340 and K240 for groups I
and II-III respectively.
Source: Timber Corporation



ANNTEX 16
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Project Benefits
Economic Rate of Return
1.        In computing the ROR(E) no account has been taken of benefits
that would accrue to TC bv virtue of the sawmill rehabilitation investments
of K 3.0 M included in the cost stream. Road construction machinery and
timber extraction equipment would have a residual value of no less than
K 12.5 M at the end of the Project Year 10. The new access roads constructed
during the ten vear period too would have a significant residual value
but no attempt has been made to ascertain such value, or to include
residual value of any capital assets in computing rate of return. ROR(E)
calculations are in Tables 1 and 2. The assumptions used in the calculations
are discussed in paras 7.04 to 7.07. The rate of return is more than 100%
reflecting the low opportunity cost of the forest resource anA the sunk
costs in infrastructure.
Unuantified Benefits
2.        All new roads constructed and those upgraded for purposes of
Project operation would benefit farmers in the area and provide easier
access to the main highwavs to Rangoon and other market centers. Project
Investments in machinery and access roads would have a residual value (see
para 1) and continue to be used for timber extraction in the Project area
even after the ten year period.
3.        Additional direct employment would be provided to about 2,000 1!
people in the Project area where the seasonal work peak coincides with the
agricultural slack of the dry season. A direct employment of this magnitude
would have a significant multiplier effect in these areas where subsistence
farming is the mainstay of the local population. This oDportunity for
increased employment is significant particularly in view of the high level
of unemployment in the rural areas, wqhich is not fully represented in
the national statistics.
4.        The Project has potential to demonstrate efficiency in management
to TC for its operations in the rest of Burma. Efficiently managed
extraction systems tested in PU, if applied by TC in the rest of Burma,
would enable the backlog of girdled teak trees in thos areas too to be
harvested within the next ten years, thus making it feasible to increase
Burma's annual average teak output from the current level of about
300,000 LT to more than 450,000/500,000 LT and also to ensure a regular
1/   1,500 in extraction (Annex 7, para 14); 350 in roads construction,
maintenance and transport (Annex 6, para 14); and 150 in river transport,
sawmilling and administration.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
regeneration of the whole resource base. Once the backlog of girdled teak
trees has been cleared it would be possible to change-over to a green
teak logging system which would lead to the production of an increasing
proportion of high value teak logs. The Project would also help Burma
to increase its share of non-teak hardwoods in the world markets.
5.        Other benefits include institution building e.g. laying the ground-
work for revitalizing the sawmilling operations of TC bv the reorganization
and rehabilitation of the hardwood mills in the Project area, which in turn
would have a demonstration effect on the mills in other areas; and improving
the technical and managerial competence of TC emplovees through systematic
training and improved management methods.



ANNEX 16
Table 1
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Without Project Benefits (Kyat million)
TC's OPERATIONS                    FY69       FY70       FY71       FY72       FY73
Teak
Operating Surplus                   70.5      34.3       52.7       59.6       40.3
Add back Royalties                  50.0      31.5       35.9       26.9       26.5
Net Surplus                    120.5       65.8       88.6       86.5       66.8
Production (LT '000')               301       301        358        346        340
Surplus/LT (Kyats)                  400       219        247        250        197
Average Surplus-Say K265/LT
Non-teak Hardwoods
Operating Surplus                    0.2        0.4        0.4       0.9        3.0
Add back Royalties                  13.7       13.7       13.8      13.7       13.5
Net Surplus                     13.9       14.1       14.2       14.6       16.5
Production (LT '000')               910        912        921       911        900
Surplus/LT (Kyats)                   15         15         15        16         18
Average Surplus-Say K16/LT
Foregone Income from Project Area                         Teak      Non-Teak
FY74 Production 2stimate (LT)-/                          85,000       58,000
Less Log Losses                                           12X750       3,400
Saleable Production                                      72X250      54,600
Net benefit 'without project'                              19.1         0.9
Total (say)                                             K20M
I/ Annex 7 - para 4.
2/  Past average 157. for teak and 6% of non-teak.



ANNEX 16
Table 2
BURMA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(Kyat million)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10
Project Production (LT'000')'/
Teak                                    22.2       94.2       94.2       94.2       94.2        94.2       86.6       78.2       61.2        61.2
Other Hardwoods                         15.4       61.5       61.5       71.5       81.5        91.3      101.1      110.7      120.3        140.7
Total                             37.62/   155.7       155.7      165.7       175.7      185.5      187.7      188.9       181.5       201.9
Incremental Benefits
Project Sales3/
Teak                                    48.5      159.1      159.1      159.1      159.1      159.2       146.8      133.5      107.3        107.3
Other Hardwoods                          2.9       11.4       11.4       12.1       15.4        21.3       26.2       30.0       33.5         41.4
Sub-total                         51.4      170.5      170.5      171.2       174.5      180.5      173.0      163.5       140.8       148.7
Less
Without Project Benefits4/               5.0       20.0       20.0       20.0        20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0        20.0        20.0
Project Benefits                       46.4       150.5      150.5      151.2      154.5      160.5       153.0      143.5      120.3        128.7
BENEFIT STREAMM/                       -      121.3       150.5      150.9      152.8      157.5       156.7      148.2      132.2       124.7
Incremental Costs
Capital Costs6/                          8.9       39.7       23.1       16.7        10.9       15.3       12.7       11.1         9.2        14.2
Operating Costs /
Direct Costs                           3.2       12.0       13.6       15.7       17.8        19.8       19.9       19.8       18.5        20.4
Indirect Costs                        1.6         2.8        2.8        3.1        3.1        3.1         3.0        3.0        3.0          3.0
Energy Cost Suppl7ment                 0.6        2.2        2.5        2.8        3.1         3.4        3.4        3.4        3.2          3.5
Sales Commission8                       -         4.0        5.4        5.4        5.5        6.3         6.1        5.5        4.8         4.2
COST STREAM                          14.3        60.7       47.4       43.7       40.4        47.9       45.1       42.8       38.7         55.3
Add Stumpage 9/                          2.1        8.4        8.4        8.4         9.0        9.5       10.0       10.1         9.8        10.8
Cost Including Stumpage            16.4       69.1       55.8        52.1       49.4       57.4        55.1       52.9       48.5        66.1
1/  Derived from Annex 7, Tables 4 and 5 (see also Annex 16, para 3).
2/  Represents 3 months production from January 1975.
3/ Selling prices at 1972/73 level (see Annex 15, Table 6).
4/  72,250 LT teak and 54,600 LT other hardwoods at K265/LT and K16/LT respectively (see Annex 16, para 8).
51  Adjusted for six months time lag between extraction and sale of timber.
6/ Derived from Annex 11, Table 1 by excluding FD and Feasibility Studies, costs, import duties and price contingencies.
7/ Derived from Annex 13, Table 1 by excluding royalties.
8/ On export sales at 4% on FOB.
9/ At K25/LT on gross volume.



BURMA FORESTRY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
DEPUTY
MINISTER
CO-ORDINATION
MINISTER'S OFFICE    '                                   COMMITTEE
PEOPLE'S
AGRICULTURAL            TIMBER                            PEARL &                 SALT
CORPORATION             CORPORATION                       FISHERY                 CORPORATION
CORPORATION
SEE CHART 3.
PLANNING      IRRIGATION     VETERINARY       FISHERIES     WORKING        MECHANIZED      FOREST  EPT       SURVEY       SETTLEMENT
&             DEPT.          & ANIMAL         DEPT.         PEOPLE'S       AGRICULTURE                        DEPT.       & LAND
STATS.                       HUSBANDRY                      SETTLEMENT     DEPT.                                          RECORDS
EPT.            DEPT.                                       DEPT.                                                         DEPT.
SEE CHART 2.
World Bank-8198






BURMA FORESTRY PROJECT
FORESTRY DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR         DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR         RDESEARCH &       WORKNG
MANDALAY          SAGAING          PEGU              MAGWE             EASTERN           MARITIME        TRAINING           PLANS
CIRCLE            CIRCLE            CIRCLE           CIRCLE            CIRCLE            CIRCLE           CIRCLE            CIRCLE
FOREST           FOREST            FOREST            FOREST            FOREST           FOREST                         DEPUTY DIRECTORS
DIVISIONS        DIVISIONS         DIVISIONS         DIVISIONS         DIVISIONS        DIVISIONS                      WORKING PLANS (2)
(7)              (5)               (8)               15)              (5)                (                           FOREST INVENTORY (1)
UTILIZATIONSLIULUI                               FOREST                DIRECTOR, BURMA
OFFICER                SIVCLUITECONOMIST                               FORESTRY SCHOOL
World Bank-8200






BURMA FORESTRY PROJECT
TIMBER CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
MANAGING DIRECTOR
F    PROJECT UNIT    i   |  GENERAL MANAGER                  GENERAL MANAGER            GENERAL MANAGER           GENERAL MANAGER                     GENERAL MANAGER
PROJECT UNIT           (EXT   [ON)                           (ENGINEERING)      l   l   (PLANNI NG)       |   |  (ACCOUNTS)         |ING& MARKETING)
DEPUTY    MANDALAY       CHINDWIN      SITTANG       IRRAWADD                                                                                MANAGER             MvANAGER
GENERAL      ZONE           ZONE           ZONE         ZONE                                                                                     HARDWOOD           (HARDWOOD
MILLS)              MILLS)
UPPER BURMA         LOWER BURMA
AGENCY        AGENCY        AGENCY         AGENCY                        MANAGING DIRECTOR'S                                       HARDWOOD             HARDWOOD
MANAGERS      MANAGERS      MA1AGERS       MANAGERS                          OFFICE                                                A                    AREAS
DEPUTY GENERAL                                   MDEPUTY GENERAL                                               DEPUTY GENERAL
MANAGER                                  | MANAGER             l                                     l  MANAGER
(TEAK & PROCESSING)                                      | MAKETING)
| RANGOON  | | MARINE &                                                    AMECHNICAL   ENGINEERING  M   MANAGERS  MANAGER  MANAGERS  MANA GERS  M  MANAGERS      MANAGER   
CENTRAL      TRANSPORT    &              DEPT.             TEAK MILLS    PLYWOOD &      FURNITURE       HDTRS          AREAS         SHIPPING       ROUND LG  ROUND LOG .  ,
WORKSHOP  9)  VENEER  FACTORY  (4)  1, 2 & 3  BILL &       SALES          D POT
(3)                                     (2)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
World B~ok- 8284






FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT UNIT - ORGANIZATION CHART
MANAGING DIRECTOR
TIMBER CORPORATION
PROJECT DIRECTOR
T_      - IIN    B                                                 AGO
_    |   ,~~~~~~~~F .| M IC El 1; 1
|H.STAFF INCLUDING|
|  ESONNEL    
CHIEF E GINEER                  CHIEF ENGINEER                                                     C        ENGINEER
E~~ ~ ~~ goleti       FtA                                                               MECHANCTAL                           FNNCA
|  IERXTRACTION T                 ROAD                                                                        Gp
ENGINEERS t2)            ~~~ENGINEERS W4                                                     ENIER
{        H                                                                               " .u..uu,uuIuuujuuuhh3EhIEhhIIIIISIImEEUhEhhhUIEIE  CENTRAL STOR E ||ACUTN
.                                :||~~~~~~~~~~n  lI:AG.ENCY                 PROCURFEMENT
SUPERVISOR                                                                  -    _   WORKSHOP                          ASSISTANT
SKI E-RC                                                                                   N S    E::5
COSTRUCTION 
_LOG HAULAGE 
.1 Committee compr-sinq Project Director. Forest Dept. Official, four Specialists aed DeputV Project Director.
_[ AGENCY    |
ACCOUNTANT|WolBak83






fBnD 10050
96              lo                              ECEER o-E
~~BUTA~~~~~                                         5J  -B..              BBBB~~~~~~~~~~..R-k..MB B.W.'~BB.' '0
INDIA 
BANGLESH                                              N D          I APuo
~-r-
B U R M A         \NORTHTj
. \~~,<                .wVIET;/ ASH                  ,                               1!
so  X H  1La  ) \    2 '  26      <                | $    /'   /       ~~C H I N A
B' #~~~1AS N                                     p.-                          C N g'i<
ITHAILAND \.26                        S.26k
H"B.
, toma ,            ( KHME
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
BUR                                             A L
B -                     \                                                                    ___                   22"E
g,>/g,/, Paect hree             -                                Tys  t>\M BkANGT-OK
LAOS
Ba      Ro1 d                                                                               BB B ong EB
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----       RQVd                                And8Man                         8    gU         > 
00"   "                                                                                                            ,1 DoAble TroA  RSi  Se CT    ;  , sTw9.  k  I
FORESTRY PROJECT
., 7<4 Project Area                                                                                    BANGKOK
-6f Re5Paved Roads
Grovel ROads
Dirt RoCuis                                     Andaman
Sinoge Track RaBilways
Doudble Track Railways                               e a0
Extractions ZoB,e Boundiaries
-.--NaviaaNe Rivers
R-neseFroedarest c
:. -                                         .                                      D    ,a5i)rBa  Bavadrie
-69-              200
, 5i0    IV            S      00    2i6 






IBRD 10768
'~O -56-0  ;t  94   1                                      g(                                                               980              DECEMBER 197
g   Ye-U                                                   v                 B U R M A
ORESTRY PROJECT
--,ilND-i-A-.                                   |                    X         Bidalin    }\                                   w              FOREST  EXTRACTION  AREAS AND
..  <  :   } a          <2s 1                 1  Si  ( Vladaya                                        TRANSPORTATION   NETWORK                               220
A-.?                                                                                                      2Z. -::  .  I z  -\  \    1   ,v,  1 ,gj 7,7     Projet Are-
ANDALAY                                                      R-"   F.t A
\t 1 f} 2 l : X \ LAY ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Reserved Forest Areas
Foret Evtrotion Area 1975  BBS5
, -  --   ~         r Forest Divisiof-l Boundaries
....   Extration Ageny Bound.ries
Roads Under Costrct-on
-   -   -   -   - i- - - -  Roads Propo sed  Under  Project
X&   -Paletwai                                                                                                                                                            6 \   :  ,'. ' i k  k Ut   /  /  ,   ExEstMng Paved Roads
Pale                            ?nts  ~~~~lin                                                                                                     E sting Gracel Roads~~ali
\\2~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - \--n---s---n--r'  Railways
y- Y- .-ggy riXpadaung  MvitkX    a u n g 9      i                *         Project Haadgqarters
vmm>                                         e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TcBy  BLiwene Worsho
A    Stonie Workshops
'V        ProPosd Static Works,hop
*    Existing Main Log Rafting Depots
4    Principal Airp-rt
/                                                  MrrKtbck    Maaw U                             S-                                                  -    i           ;nr
'Korst         /$ nY  A                               Toasgc        -                                        !     -
THAA LA ND
6AY O     NA LG                                                  -:.E
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
ROKS                                                                                                             kklES.tepyi )t r    ttr teetit     h           (AS         ;9   i' .
-c-   YAW                                                                                                                                                               ,-l~A-          AP~''
:          AO E AN                                                         '         .r
07 -thAMRAWADDY
1N96154             AdEDABRANSEA                                                                               AISPOWAB ORd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAOW
KILOMBTBBE                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -S$TATE AND OSVIBStONAL
BOUNDARIES
ge Wlff*~   on 01.av                             RAILWAYS--     B5JBASE



