CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 493 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Forestry Project)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 12, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 493 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Forestry Project)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 12, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1974, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of part of the cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Borrower and the Timber
Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Timber Corporation part of the proceeds of
'he Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Timber Corporation pursuant to Section 3.01(c)


﻿4
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all Schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   "TC" means the Timber Corporation, established by the State Timber
Board Act, 1950, as amended, and subsequently renamed and reorganized as the
Timber Corporation by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests Notification No. 7,
dated April 3, 1973, and shall include any successor or successors thereto;
(c)   "Project Area" means an area containing about five million acres of
mixed deciduous teak and hardwood forest situated in South Central Burma and
comprising five extraction Agencies of TC, namely Pakkoku and Thayet Agencies
in the Chindwin Zone and Prome, Zigon and Tharawaddy Agencies in the Irrawaddy
Zone; and
(d)   "Project Unit" means the project unit referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars
($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1981 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August I commencing
August 1, 1984, and ending February 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of TC, or any other person duly
authorized in writing by him, is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions, in respect of the amount relent to TC under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project and
cause to be carried out by TC through the Project Unit Part A of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate silvicultural,
management, administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(i)        satisfactory arrangements are made for the provision of adequate
funds for the operating expenses of the Project Unit, including
expenses for spare parts for the equipment required for the
execution of the Project and for operating the vehicles included
in Part B(i) of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, and for capital
0


﻿6
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower required for the
execution of the Project;
(ii)        the Project Unit will be caused to retain depreciation funds and
all such income, as remains annually after the profits earned by
the activities of the Project Unit have been taxed, is made
available for reinvestment to the Project Unit; and
(iii)       TC sells the timber from the Project Area, furnishes the returns
of such sales to the Project Unit and deposits in the bank account
of the Project Unit the proceeds of such sales after deduction
of costs for the processing and marketing of such timber.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend to TC the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
to finance expenditures by TC under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association. Except as the Borrower and the Association.
shall otherwise agree, such agreement shall provide, inter alia, that TC shall pay
periodically to the Borrower amounts representing (i) interest at an annual rate
of seven and one-fourth per cent (7-1/4%) on the principal amount so relent and
outstanding from time to time and (ii) amortization of the principal amount so
relent over a term of fifteen years including five years of grace, from the date
of such agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of overall management and coordination
in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall cause TC to establish and
maintain within TC until the Project is completed, a Project Unit with such powers,
responsibilities, functions, structure and staff as are set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause TC, prior to making appointments in the
Project Unit to positions at the level of departmental head and above such level,
to inform the Association of the qualifications and experience of the proposed
candidates for such positions.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, within six months of the date of this
Agreement or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, establish and maintain a Project Planning Committee with composition
and functions to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, to
advise the Project Director on the planning and implementation of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Review
Committee to advise on the implementation of and to monitor the benefits of


﻿A7
7
the Project, with composition and functions mutually satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause TC to employ the specialists
included in Part A(x) of the Project and the sawmill specialist included in Part
A(ix) of the Project with such operational and training responsibilities and upon
such other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
(b)   The workshop engineer and the management accountant included in
Part A(x) of the Project and the sawmill specialist included in Part A(ix) of the
Project shall be employed not later than six months after the date of this Agreement
or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.06. In order to as-ist the Borrower in carrying out Part B(ii) of
the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than six months after the date of this Agreement, or such
other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association,
*         employ consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   establish and maintain a committee with compositions and functions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association to supervise and coordinate the
carrying out of Part B(ii) of the Project; and
(c)   in consultation with the Association, nominate qualified personnel for
training abroad and, after such training, assign such personnel as counterparts to
the consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in carrying out Part
B(ii) of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿8
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Assocition
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and .ervices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire all such rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause TC         *nd the Project Unit
respectively to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
TC and the Project Unit.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause TC and the Project Unit, respectively, to:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance   with   sound   auditing   principles  consistently  applied  by   the
Director-General, Central Audit and Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the
Council of Pyithu's Inspectors of the Borrower; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, copies in English translation, of their unaudited financial statements
for such year, and not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies, in English translation, of their financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report, in English translation, of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information


﻿9
concerning the accounts and financial statements of TC and the Project Unit and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit:
(i)         to furnish to the Association for its comments, not later than
two months prior to the commencement of each fiscal year,
the proposals for the annual budget of the Project Unit; and
(ii)        to furnish to the Association not later than one month after
the end of each quarter in each fiscal year progress reports on
the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause TC, including the Project Unit:
(a)   to manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering, silvicultural, forestry management and environmental
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified and competent staff;
(b)   to take all action reasonably required to maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of TC's business;
and
(c)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower will inform the Association prior to making,
or permitting to be made, in the period before the feasibility studies included
in Part B(ii) of the Project have been completed, any new investments exceeding
one million dollars in the forestry and forestry industries sector.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall implement, or cause to be implemented
such recommendations of the feasibility studies included in Part B(ii) of the Project
as may be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association in accordance
with a timetable to be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall make satisfactory arrangements for the
upgrading and adequate maintenance of roads not included in the Project but serving
the Project Area.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from   time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, including marketing, and financial
condition of TC and the Project Unit and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, including marketing, and financial
condition of TC and the Project Unit and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in kffect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Condiicins,
the following additional events are specified:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TC or for the suspe1sion
of its operations, without previous mutual agreement between the Borrower and
the Association; and
(b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been amended or abrogated
without previous mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿12
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified
in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Project Unit has been established and the Project Director of the
Project Unit has been appointed;
(b)   the roads engineer and the extraction engineer included in Part A(x)
of the Project have been employed by TC;
(c)   the Project Review Committee referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement has been established; and
(d)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and TC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and TC, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Borrower and TC in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date October 18, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.03
and 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister for Planning and Finance or thl Deputy Minister
for Planning and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿13
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry for Planning and Finance
Ministers' Office Post Office
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By /s / U. Lwin            Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                     Dollar Equivalent)
I.         Road construction equipment                        4,000,000
including spare-parts
II.        Timber extraction equipment                        8,400,000
including trucks, launches
and spare-parts
III.       Workshop and administration                          950,000
equipment including vehicles
and supplies
IV.        Components and spare-parts                           550,000
for rehabilitation of existing
field equipment
V.         Components and spare-parts                           500,000
for rehabilitation of sawmills
VI.        Technical assistance and                           1,000,000
training
VII.       Vehicles for Forest Department                       250,000
VIII.      Feasibility studies                                1,000,000
IX.        Unallocated                                        7,350,000
TOTAL        24,000,000


﻿15
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet
such estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures.
4.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under tl-e
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a program of rehabilitation and improvement of
timber extraction operations in the Project Area and feasibility studies of future
rehabilitation and development projects in the forestry sector of the Borrower.
It includes:
Part A:     Rehabilitation and improvement of facilities in the Project Area
(i)         Construction of about 165 miles of and upgrading of
about 270 miles of access roads.
(ii)        Construction and upgrading of about 1800 miles of feeder
roads.
(iii)       Extraction of a backlog of about 250,000 log tons of ripe
girdled teak.
(iv)        Extraction of the annual allowable cut of about 65,000
log tons of teak.
(v)         Increasing the annual extraction of non-teak hardwoods
from about 50,000 log tons to more than 82,000 log tons.
(vi)        Provision of workshops, stores and office facilities.
(vii)       Rehabilitation of existing road construction and extraction
equipment.
(viii)      Rehabilitation of hardwood sawmills processing timber.
(ix)        Reorganization  and rehabilitation of sawmills in the
Project Area through (a) the assignment for the purpose
of four of the sawmill managers of TC for two years,
including two months training abroad, and (b) the
employment of a qualified and experienced sawmill
specialist to coordinate the training of such managers
abroad   and  to  assist in  such  reorganization  and
rehabilitation.


﻿17
(x)         Operational assistance in the implementation of Part A(i)
through (ix) of the Project by four qualified and
experienced specialists, namely a roads engineer, an
extraction  engineer,  a   workshop   engineer  and   a
management accountant.
Part B:     Improvement of forest management in the Project Area, and future
rehabilitation and development of the forestry sector
(i)         Provision  of vehicles  for supervision   of extraction
operations in the Project Area to the Forest Department
of the Borrower.
(ii)        Making   of  feasibility  studies of rehabilitation  and
development projects in the forestry sector with the
assistance of consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1980.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
PART I
Procedures
1.    Procedures for procurement shall be consistent with those of international
competition described in "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October
1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines).
2.    Such components and spare parts as are included in Categories IV and V
of the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement may be procured
under procedures other than those referred to in paragraph I of this Part I to
be agreed with the Association.
PART II
Bidding Procedures and Approvals by the Association
1.    With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall prepare, with the assistance
of the appropriate specialist or specialists included in Part A(ix) and (x) of the
Project, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, shall furnish the said documents to the Association for its comments
and shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in suffi ient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the appropriate specialist or specialists included in Part A(ix)
and (x) of the Project, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendation for award of the said specialist or specialists


﻿19
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by paragraph I of this Part II, the Borrower shall prepare
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents
with the assistance of the appropriate specialist or specialists included in Part A(ix)
and (x) of the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids and
recommendations for award with the comments of the said specialist or specialists,
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit will be an operating entity within TC responsible for road
construction and maintenance, timber extraction, transportation and relevant
supporting services within the Project Area and will be a separate division of TC,
independent of existing departmental units of TC and with autonomy in operational
matters.
2.    The supporting services of the Project Unit include managing workshops,
procurement, maintaining inventories, budgeting, cost accounting, dealing with
banks, internal auditing and general administration.
3.    The Project Unit will be headed by a qualified and experienced Project
Director who will be assisted by personnel including a qualified and experienced
Deputy Director, the four specialists included in Part A(x) of the Project, a senior
executive officer of the Forest Department of the Borrower assigned to the Project
Unit on a full-time basis, and adequate supporting staff.
4.    The Project Director, as chief executive of the Project Unit, will report
directly and be responsible to the Managing Director of TC and work within
guidelines set by the Project Review Committee referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement but will otherwise have independence in all operational matters
related to the Project.
5.    The Project Unit will have a minimum     of five departments (Extraction;
Roads; Workshop; Finance, Costing and Accounts; and Internal Audit), five
Extraction Agency Offices, a central store and a central workshop, each headed
by a suitably qualified and experienced executive, adequate staff for a liaison office
in Rangoon, and a Project headquarters. The central store, central workshop and
Project headquarters will be sited and constructed at Prome.
6.    The Project Unit will have an accounting system separate from that of TC
and satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, particularly with its own
annual budget, its own bank accounts and generally accepted commercial accounting
procedures and management controls.
7.    The Project Unit will, during the period of the Project, be advised by the
Project Planning Committee referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.


