Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB296
Project Name                MEXICO - Irrigation and Drainage Modernization Project
Region                      Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                      Irrigation and drainage (100%)
Theme                       Rural services and infrastructure (P); Water resource management (P)
Project                     P035752
Borrower(s)                 NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Implementing Agency(ies)    COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA (CNA)
Comision Nacional de Agua (CNA)
Address: Av. Insurgentes Sur No. 1960, Col. Florida Mexico, 01050 D.F.
Contact Person: Ing. Jorge Lorda/Ing. Raul Deschamps Diaz
Tel: 52591592414     Fax:       Email: jorge.Iorda@cna.gob.mx,
rdeschamps@sgp.cna.gob.mx
Environment Category        B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared           September 8, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         September 5, 2003
Bank Approval Date          December 9, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Although the agricultural sector in general, and the irrigation sector in particular, has been subject to
drastic structural reforms during the 1990s (e.g., trade liberalization, elimination of most price
interventions, constitutional reforms of land tenure, transfer of large parts of the country's irrigation
infrastructure to water users), the sector's performance has been below its potential. In particular, the
competitiveness of irrigated agriculture continues to be constrained by the low level of technlology of
irrigated agriculture and lack of modernization of its irrigation infrastructure, which have resulted in low
productivity in the irrigation sector and poses a major policy challenge, given that the NAFTA agreement
will put the sector in open competition with producers from Canada and the United States as of 2008.
Additionally, as the economy develops, the competition for water resources will continue to increase
creating development constraints and leading to potential inter-sectoral conflicts. With agriculture as the
main user of water resources, increased efficiency in water use in the sector will be an essential element to
ease future water constraints in the economy.
In recent years, the Government of Mexico has been adopting a number of initiatives to deal with the
sector's issues. In 2001, it enacted a new Rural Development Law that provides the framework for future
policy and institutional interventions. Subsequently, it approved a Rural Sector Development Plan that
emphasizes, among others, competitiveness, on-farm and off-farm employment generation and regional
development. Regarding specifically the irrigation sector, the National Hydraulic Plan (2001-2006)
promotes the integrated management of the natural resources, of which water is considered a strategic
resource, as means to achieve sustainable development in Mexico. Furthermore, the watershed is viewed as
the basic water management unit and participation of water users in the decision making process is a key
element of the new water resources management strategy. Within this framework, and consistent with
growing budgetary constraints, the government is adopting measures to increase the efficiency in the use of
water in agriculture; promote the sustainable management and development of water resources; improve the
productivity of irrigated agriculture; and complete the transfer of responsibility for operation, maintenance
and management of irrigation infrastructure to water users.



2
PID
In 1996, the Government launched a national agricultural and rural development program (Alianza para el
Campo) to increase capitalization in the agricultural sector, with the aim of promoting improved
agricultural productivity and increased farmers' income. It fosters agricultural productivity by promoting
productive investment (under a matching-grant scheme) and providing more effective support services
(research, extension, information, training) for a wide range of agricultural sub-programs. Under the new
Administration, the program has been reformed, its is now called Alianza Contigo and, under the present
Operational Rules (dated January 2003), the number of different sub-programs through which resources
are channeled to farmers has been reduced to seven. From the perspective of PMI4R, the most relevant
sub-program is the Promotion of Crops (PFA), which is the only one that supports activities related to
irrigated agriculture. The PFA is roughly divided into 4 lines of activity, including investment and capital
building, development of human resources, strengthening of agro-industrial productive chains, and
technology generation and transfer. Within the first line of activity a special chapter supports integrated
soils and water management practices (MISA). Through MISA, the Government provides support for
improved management, rehabilitation and conservation of soil and water resources, and for development of
modem irrigation systems. The cornerstone of the Alianza program, however, remains its decentralized
approach, with a delegation of administration and decision-making to the States. The program continues to
offer the opportunity and the operational mechanism to implement a decentralized, demand-driven approach
to channel technical and financial assistance directly to small farmers.
2. Objectives
The Project's main objective is to assist the Government of Mexico in its efforts to adopt a new model to
improve the competitiveness of irrigated agriculture and the efficiency of irrigation water use, in both
Irrigation Districts (Distritos de Riego, DR) and Irrigation Units (Unidades de Riego, UR), that would
include the development of partnerships between the public and private sectors as well as effective
institutional collaboration within the public sector, plus the strengthening of a demand-driven approach to
investment decisions and financing. Specifically, the main objective would be achieved through: (i) the
modernization of existing irrigation infrastructure to promote a more efficient use of irrigation water within
the framework of Integrated Irrigation Investment Plans (IP); (ii) increased productivity of irrigated
agriculture and diversification into high-value crops; (iii) consolidation of the transfer of irrigation
infrastructure to water users; (iv) institutional strengthening of water users' organizations to enhance their
participation in the O&M of irrigation infrastructure as well as in investment decisions; and (v)
establishment of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has an extensive experience in irrigation development projects and has been
accompanying irrigation development in Mexico for the last twenty years and is, therefore, well placed to
assist the Government in its effort to adopt an integrated approach to improve the efficiency of irrigation
infrast-ucture and the competitiveness of irrigation agriculture. Bank participation in the project would
complement central and State level government expertise, bringing lessons and insights from related
projects in other countries to ensure the design of an effective program of technical and financial assistance
to improve the efficiency and productivity of the irrigation sector, and secure the effective participation of
beneficiaries in the design and execution of project-financed investment and activities. The Bank can foster
also the development of a partnership between CNA and SAGARPA for the integrated development of the
irrigation sector.
Furthermore, recent experiences with the implementation of World Bank-financed programs designed to
provide improved production equipment and technical assistance to farmers (ALCAMPO) and develop and
implement water resources management instruments and policies (PROMMA) would contribute also to a
better implementation of the proposed Irrigation Modernization Project.



3
PID
4. Description
1. Modernization and Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure in DRs and URs, including rehabilitation
of infrastructure works; purchase, conservation and repair of machinery and equipment.
2. Diversification and Intensification of Irrigated Agricultural Production, including technical and financial
assistance for the adoption of improved irrigation and farming technologies and equipment, and promotion
of improved marketing systems and sustainable farm development.
3. Institutional Development, including support to improve O&M of transferred irrigation infrastructure, to
promote the establishment of new service providers, strengthening of water users' associations and
executing agencies, both at the central and regional levels.
4. Project Management, including the Project Coordinating Unit and support for the development and
operation of the Monitoring and Evaluation System.
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($140.00)
IBRD ($300.00)
Total Project Cost: $440.00
6. Implementation
The project's Executing Agency will be CNA, which will establish a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU),
within its General Irrigation Infrastructure Sub-Division (Subdirecci6n General de Infraestructura
Hidroagricola, SGIH), that will coordinate project activities. CNA would have the main responsibility over
the execution of both the irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization component, and the
diversification and intensification of irrigated agricultural production component. SAGARPA, on the other
hand, by establishing a Coordinated Operations Agreement with CNA, would support the project's
agricultural production diversification and intensification activities through its on-going Alianza programs,
in particular through its MISA sub-program.
Project investments are expected to be demand driven, with decisions regarding investment projects to be
financed and investment priorities being made by water users' associations, with the assistance of CNA,
within the framework of the IP that would be prepared, with active beneficiary participation, in each of the
of the Irrigation Districts and Irrigation Units in which project activities would be implemented.
The proposed project execution would be decentralized, with a strong participation of producers and local
authorities in the decision making process. Coordination of project activities at the field level would be
achieved through the participatory execution of IPs. Most project activities (Components 1 and 2) would be
carried out by farmers directly, with financing shared by public and private resources. Allocation of public
funding would be made by CNA, which would be responsible for reviewing investment proposals and
authorizing funds, through either its own budgetary resources or the relevant programs of the existing
Alianza Contigo Program (PAC) . As in the ongoing projects, financial resources would be channeled to
beneficiaries through the State Trust Funds (Fideicomisos), to which State-level governments will
contribute financial resources according to their development priorities.
A Project Monitoring and Evaluation System, that would be managed by the PCU, will be designed before
project negotiations. This system would be based on the indicators for project monitoring mentioned in
Annex 2, would identify the baseline to be defined during the first year of project execution, and would
indicate the frequency of monitoring as well as the contents and frequency of evaluation reports.



4
PID
7. Sustainability
The transfer of irrigation infrastructure to water users' associations, which includes also the transfer of
O&M responsibilities, together with measures to ensure the financial sustainability of these associations,
would guarantee the sustainability of project investment. Furthermore, increased competitiveness of
irrigated agricultural sector, would contribute also to a sustainable development of the irrigation sector.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Several important lessons have been either learned or reinforced by the experience of other projects
implementation, in particular, that of Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project ("Time Slice") and On-Farm
and Minor Irrigation Project ("PRODEP").
i.     While both World Bank-financed projects made progress in the rehabilitation and
modernization of the country's irrigation infrastructure, their achievements were less than
satisfactory when it came to improvements in the productivity of irrigated agriculture and
diversification towards higher value crops, thus indicating the need to establish a close link
between actions oriented to infrastructure improvements and those aiming at production
improvements.
ii.    The country's experience with the transfer of irrigation infrastructure to water users has
been positive and should be consolidated. This positive experience has resulted not only in better
and less costly O&M of irrigation infrastructure, but also in a reduction in the government
budgetary contribution to the irrigation sector.
iii.   There is great advantage in including potential beneficiaries in the decision-making process
regarding infrastructure investment and other project activities. Their involvement provides not
only "ownership" of the proposed sub-projects, and contributes to the viability and sustainability of
investment, but results also in better targeted projects and activities that respond to the real needs
of beneficiaries. In this context, institutional strengthening of water users' association becomes an
essential part of any irrigation modemization project.
iv.    Technical assistance in the selection of appropriate technology, with irrigation farmers'
participation, become important elements in a program aiming at improved competitiveness of
irrigated crops.
v.     In any future irrigation development agenda: (a) the sector would benefit from a more
decisive decentralization of CNA, both to the States and to water users' associations; b) the
development of a mechanism to monitor performance and a benchmarking system could improve
accountability in a service that is a natural monopoly; and (c) the issues of the availability of water
resources, and environmental issues should be incorporated as primary elements of any program.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : The project seeks to improve agricultural productivity and encourage the adoption of
rational water use in existing irrigation schemes (districts), in which the development of
environmentally-sustainable production systems will be promoted. Since project components and activities
will be oriented towards supporting integrated investment plans that would only include rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure, and construction of new infrastructure is not foreseen, the combined effects of these
two features lead to the conclusion that no significant negative environmental impacts from project
activities can be envisaged. Furthermore, improved management of irrigation water will reduce water
logging and soil salinity, with the consequent positive environmental impact.



5
PID
The project implementing agency will be CNA, which has more than 15 years of experience working with
the Bank in irrigation and water resources management development projects for Mexico. This long
experience has allowed the Bank to recognize CNA as an institution with adequate environmental standards
and regulations, which are critical to secure compliance with the Bank's environmental and social
safeguard policies.
The environmental assessment work for this project was conducted in two stages. The first, the Sectoral
Environmental Assessment (SEA), has been completed as part of project preparation. Details of the SEA
are described in section 5.2. The second stage is the Environmental Assessment (EA) of each subproject to
be financed by the project, which will be prepared during project implementation at the Irrigation District,
Irrigation Unit, or sub-project module level, as part of the process for the subproject formulation and
approval. These subproject EAs will assess specific potential environmental impacts (related to water
quality and quantity, possible effects on wetlands, pest management, etc.) and will describe the
corresponding mitigation or enhancement measures (including budget, schedule, implementation
responsibilities, and monitoring of compliance and outcomes); these environmental measures will be
incorporated in the respective Investment Irrigation Management Plans.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michael G. Carroll
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 2024739528
Fax: 2025220262
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.orgAinfoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.



