                                              Documentof
                                          The WorldBank



                                                                                  ReportNo: 27174-ME


                                      FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY




                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$303MILLION

                                                  TO

                                  THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                               FORAN

                     INTEGRATED IRRIGATIONMODERNIZATIONPROJECT

                                         NOVEMBER 7,2003




Environmentallyand Socially Sustainable Development
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region




  This documenthas arestricteddistribution andmaybe usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
  official duties. Its contentsmaynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization

                                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective October 13,2003)

                                           Currency Unit = Mexico Peso (Mx$)
                                                    1M x $ = US$11.043
                                                      U S $ l = Mx$0.09

                                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                                       2004  -- 2009

                                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALCAMPO           Agricultural Productivity Project
A"                National Association o f IrrigationUsers
AUCs              Asociaciones Civiles de Usuarios
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA              Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CNA               National Water Commision (Comisibn Nacional del Agua)
CTFE              Technical Committee o f the State Trust Fund
D G M             Department of Hydro-Agricultural Infrastructures
DR                Distritos de Riego (Irrigation Districts)
EMP               EnvironnementalManagementPlan
FMR               Financial ManagementPlan
I I P S           Integrated IrrigationPlans
IMTA              ProgramaNacional de CapacitacibnAbierta del Instituto
MISA              Integrated Soils andWater Management Practices
MR                Mbdulos de Riego
NAFIN             Nacional Financiera
NAFTA             North American Free Trade Agreement
PAC               Alianza Contigo
PCS               Project Coordinating System
PFA               Agricultural Development Program (Programa de Foment0 Agricola)
PMIR              Integrated IrrigationModemization Project
PNH               Plan NacionalHidrfiulico
PRODEP            On-Farm andMinor IrrigationProject
PROMMA            Water ResourcesManagementProject
SAGARPA           Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pescay Alimentacibn, Secretariat o f Agriculture,
Livestock,, RuralDevelopment, Fisheries and Food
SEA               Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SFP               Secretaria de FuncibnPublica
SGM               Subdireccibn General de Infraestructura Hidroagricola
SHCP              Secretaria de Hacienday Crkdito Publico, Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SRL               Sociedadesde ResponsabilidadLimitada de Interks Publico
UR                Unidades de Riego (Irrigation Unit)
WRM               Water ResourcesManagement
W U S             Water Users

                                          Vice President:        Davidde Ferranti
                           Country ManagerDirector:              Isabel M. Guerrero
                             Sector ManagerDirector:             JohnRedwood
                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                 Michael G. Carroll

                                                                    FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                     MEXICO
                        INTEGRATEDIRRIGATIONMODERNIZATIONPROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS




     A. Project DevelopmentObjective                                                         Page

        1. Project development objective                                                       2
        2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

     B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project      2
        2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
        3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project andstrategic choices                   4

     C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components
         2. Key policy andinstitutionalreforms supported by the project
         3. Benefits andtarget population
         4. Institutional and implementation arrangements

     D.ProjectRationale

         1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection
         2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies
         3. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design
         4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership
         5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project

      E. Summary Project Analysis

         1. Economic                                                                           10
         2. Financial                                                                          10
         3. Technical                                                                          11
         4. Institutional                                                                      11
         5. Environmental                                                                      13
         6. Social                                                                             16
         7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 19

      F. Sustainability andRisks

         1. Sustainability                                                                     19
This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance o f their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.

  2. Critical risks                                                                      19
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      20


G. MainEffectiveness Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             20
  2. Other                                                                               20

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          20

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             21



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           39
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    45
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    44
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements                             49
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                                      56
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    57
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 59
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            62

                                                        MEXICO
                                        IntegratedIrrigationModemization Project
                                          ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                           LatinAmerica andCaribbean Region
                                                          LCSER

         November 7,2003                                      Team Leader: Michael G. Carroll
          Managermirector: John Redwood                       Sector@): Irrigation and drainage (100%)
           Managermirector: Isabel M. Guerrero                Theme(s): Rural services and infrastructure (P), Water
                                                              resourcemanagement (P)
               -SpecificInvestment          Loan(SIL)
I          Financing Data
   [XI Loan       [ ]Credit        [ ]Grant       [ ]Guarantee          [ ] Other:
  For LoanslCreditslOthers:
  Loan Currency: United States Dollar
  Amount (US$m): 303.030,303
  Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:          Yes
  ProposedTerms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
  Grace period (years): 5                                   Years to maturity: 10
  Commitmentfee: 0.85% for first 3 years reducedto          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                     0.75% thereafter                       Payment for FEF: Capitalize from LoanProceeds

  Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Maintainas Variable
  Type of repayment schedule:
   F] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
   [ ] Linkedto Disbursement
 Conversion options: [XICurrency        [XIInterestRate    [x]Caps/Collars:

[Financing Plan (US$m):
IBORROWER                         Source                            I      Local           Foreign            Total
                                                                            225.00   I          0.00    1      225.00




  Responsibleagency: COMISIONNACIONAL DELAGUA (CNA)
  ComisionNacional de Agua (CNA)
  Address: Av. Insurgentes Sur No. 1960, Col. Florida Mexico, 01050 D.F.
  Contact Person: Ing.Jorge Lorda/Ing. Raul Deschamps Diaz
  Tel: 52591592414                  Fax:                  Email: jorge.lorda@cna.gob.mx, rdeschamps@sgp.cna.gob.mx
1 Estimated Disbursements l Bank FY/US$mk

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project's main objective is to assist the Government o f Mexico inits efforts to adopt a new model to
improve the competitiveness of irrigatedagriculture andthe efficiency of irrigationwater use, inboth
IrrigationDistricts (Distritos de Riego, DR) and Irrigation Units (Unidudes de Riego, UR), that would
include the development of partnershipsbetween the public andprivate sectorsas well as effective
institutional collaboration within the public sector, plus the strengtheningo f a demand-drivenapproach to
investment decisions and financing. Specifically, the main objective wouldbe achieved through: (i)       the
modernizationo f existing irrigation infrastructure to promote a more efficient use o f irrigation water within
the framework o f Integrated Irrigation Investment Plans (IIIPs); (ii) increasedproductivity o f irrigated
agriculture and diversificationinto high-value crops; (iii)  consolidation of the transfer o f irrigation
infrastructure to water users; (iv) institutional strengthening o fwater users' organizations to enhance their
participation inthe O&M of imgation infrastructure as well as ininvestment decisions; (v) consolidating
the current cost recovery systemfor both operating and capital costs; and (vi) establishment o f a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system. The project complements the work beingdone by CNA
regarding improvement of water resourcesmanagement 0inparticular on groundwater-related
aspects.

2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
The mainproject performance indicators are detailed in Annex 1and they would include: (i)          number o f
rehabilitationworks demanded and executed; (ii)      areaunder modemizedirrigation infrastructure; (ii)    area
where improved irrigation technology crops have been adopted; (iv) area under diversification into high
value crops (v) number of water user associationswith financially sustainable operations.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: R2002-0073[IFC/R2002-0055]                   Date of latestCAS discussion:May 16,2002

According to the CAS, sustainable economic development inMexico faces five strategic challenges: (i)
consolidating the macroeconomic framework; (ii)       accelerating growth through competitiveness; (iii)  human
capital development; (iv) balancing growth and poverty reductionwith environmental protection; and (v)
buildingan efficient, transparent andaccountable govemment.
The project would support several o f these goals. It will contribute to: (a) the improvement o f Mexico's
overall competitivenessby enhancing the competitiveness o f irrigated agriculture; (b) by including not only
Irrigation Districts but also Irrigation Units,which concentrate most small irrigation farmers, the project
would contribute to improve their income andthus reduce ruralpoverty; (c) the project would contribute to
the development o f the irrigation sector through the technical and financial support o f economically viable
and environmentally sustainableinvestment, thus balancing growth with sustainableuse o f natural
resources; and(d) by consolidating the transfer o f irrigation infrastructure to Water Users ( w v s ) and
developing private/public partnerships, the project would contribute not only to the development o f human
capital andthe Government decentralization process but also to the improvement of the quality o f
government services by bringingpolicymakers and final beneficiaries together.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Although the agricultural sector ingeneral, andthe irrigation sector inparticular, has beensubject to



                                                       - L -

drastic structural reforms during the 1990s(e.g., trade liberalization, elimination o fmost price
interventions, constitutional reforms o f land tenure, transfer o f largeparts o fthe country's irrigation
infrastructure to water users), the sector's performance has beenbelow its potential. Inparticular, the
competitiveness o f irrigated agriculture continues to be constrained by the low level o ftechnology o f
inigated agriculture and lack o fmodemiiationo f its irrigation infrastructure andlack o f government
incentives to crop diversification, which have resultedinlow productivity inthe irrigation sector andposes
a major policy challenge, given that the NAFTAagreement will put the sector inopen competitionwith
producers from Canada and the UnitedStates as o f 2008.
Additionally, as the economy develops, the competition for water resourceswill continue to increase
creating development constraints and leading to potentialinter-sectoral conflicts, as is the case inthe
Lerma-Chapala watershed, where the lake's water resourceshave beenminedto satisfy the demands of
Guadalajara City inJalisco, on the one hand, andthe IrrigationDistrict inGuanajuato, on the other. The
water level o f the lake is currently back to its historical average, so the challenge is to adopt the necessary
measures to guaranteethe sustainability o f water resourcesinboth Lake Chapala and the relatedaquifer.
Competition for water resources has resultedalso inthe over-exploitation o f groundwater resources,
includingthe aquifer ofCelaya locatedwithin the boundaries o fthe Lerma-Chapala watershed. The World
Bank-financedPROMMA project has prepareda program to stabilize that aquifer. In 1975, there were
some 30 over-exploited aquifers, andthis figure increasedto 96 in2000. With agriculture as the mainuser
of water resources, increasedefficiency inwater use inthe sector will be an essentialelement to ease
water constraints inthe economy and to contribute to the solution o f the problems faced by aquifers under
threat. Butthe solution will have to involve also urban areas and industry. Currently, over 70 percent of
water consumedby urban centers is suppliedfrom ground water sources. The Government has requested
that the PROMMA I1Project, currently underpreparation, deals specifically with the issue o f
overexploited aquifers.
Inrecentyears, the Government ofMexicohas beenadopting anumberofinitiativesto deal withthe
sector's issues. In2001, it enacteda new Rural Development Law that providesthe framework for hture
policy and institutional interventions. Subsequently, it approved a Rural Sector Development Planthat
emphasizes, among others, competitiveness, on-farm and off-farm employment generation andregional
development. Regarding specifically the irrigation sector, the NationalHydraulic Plan (2001-2006)
promotes the integratedmanagement o f the naturalresources, o fwhich water is considered a strategic
resource, as means to achieve sustainable development inMexico. Furthermore, the watershed is viewed as
the basic water managementunit andparticipationof water users inthe decision makingprocessis a key
element o fthe new water resourcesmanagement strategy. As part o f this effort to strengthen the
participatory decision makingprocess, the Government has been transferring the responsibility for
operation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure to water users' associations, with the result that most
of them area at present financing the full cost o f O&M activities. Thus, by internationalstandards, Mexico
has currently one of the highest O&M cost recovery levels. Additionally, these water users' associationsare
already financing more than 50 percent o f total investmentcosts inrehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure.

    Country (year)                                       Actual O&M collection rate (%)
   Mexico (1993-97)                                                            79
    Colombia 1996)                                                             52
    Pakistan(1986-91)                                                         20-22
    Phillipines (1997)                                                         46
   Turkey (1995)                                                               70

Withinthis framework, and consistentwith growingbudgetary constraints, the government is adopting
measures to increasethe efficiency inthe use o fwater inagriculture; promote the sustainablemanagement
and development o fwater resources; improve the productivity o f irrigated agriculture; andcomplete the
transfer o f responsibility for operation, maintenance andmanagement o f irrigation infrastructure to water
users.

In1996, the Government launchedanationalagriculturalandruraldevelopment program(Aliunzu pura el
Campo)to increasecapitalization inthe agricultural sector, with the aim ofpromoting improved
agriculturalproductivity and increasedfarmers' income. It fosters agricultural productivity bypromoting
productive investment (under a matching-grant scheme) andproviding more effective support services
(research, extension, information, training) for a wide range o f agricultural sub-programs. Underthe new
Administration, the programhas beenreformed, its is now called Alianza Contigo and, underthe present
Operational Rules (dated April 7,2003), the numbero f different sub-programs through which resources
are channeled to farmers has beenreducedto seven. Fromthe perspective o f the proposedIntegrated
Irrigation Modernization Project (PMIR), the most relevant sub-program is the Promotion o f Crops (PFA),
which is the only one that supports activities related to irrigated agriculture. The PFA is roughly divided
into 4 lines o f activity, including investment andcapital building, development o fhumanresources,
strengthening o f agro-industrial productive chains, andtechnology generation andtransfer. Within the first
line o f activity a special chapter supports Integrated Soils and Water Management Practices (MISA).
ThroughMISA, the Government provides support for improvedmanagement, rehabilitation and
conservation o f soil and water resources, and for development o f modem irrigation systems. The
comerstone o fthe Aliunzu program, however, remains its decentralized approach, with a delegation o f
administration and decision-making to the States. The program continues to offer the opportunity andthe
operational mechanism to implementa decentralized, demand-driven approach to channel technical and
financial assistancedirectly to small farmers, basedon a matching-grant basis. The proposed PMIR Project
would adopt the same strategy duringits implementation.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
PMIR would support Government programs aimed at introducing a new model for decentralization andthe
allocation o f public investment h d s and reducing the role of the State inthe irrigation sector, increasing
the competitiveness ofirrigatedagriculture, to enable farmers to successfully compete mainly with
Canadian and US produce withinNAFTA; andimprovingoverall water resourcemanagement inthe
irrigation sector, as a first step towards reducing potential water deficits inareas o f scarcity inMexico.

The project strategyto attain the above objective impliedseveralchoices:

   a. to expand current irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation andmodemizationprograms to cover both
       Irrigation Districts andIrrigationUnits,inorder to promote improved efficiency inwater use inthe
       irrigation sector as a whole;
  b. combine the rehabilitationandmodernizationofirrigation infrastructure withtechnical and financial
       assistanceto improve the productivity o f irrigated agriculture;
   c. consolidate the transfer o f irrigation infrastructure to WUs;
   d. strengthening the WUs to enable themto effectively promote a demand-driven approachto
       investment decisions, perform an adequateO&M o f their respective irrigation schemes, andachieve
       financial self sufficiency.




                                                       - 4 -

C. Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):



                            Component

  1. Modemization and Rehabilitation o f Irrigation                406.00         76.9      242.00         79.9
 Infrastructure inDRs and URs, including rehabilitationo f
 infrastructure works; purchase, conservation and repair o f
 machinery and equipment.
 2. Diversification and Intensificationo fIrrigated                 87.00         16.5       38.00         12.5
 Agricultural Production, including technical and financial
 assistance for the adoption o f improved irrigation and
 farming technologies and equipment, and promotion o f
 improved marketing systems andsustainable farm
 development this would also include crop diversification
 subprojects to be financed by GOMthrough the
 SAGARPA Alianza Program.
 3. Training and Institutional Development, including suppoi        30.00           5.7       18.60         6.1
 to improve O&M o f transferred irrigation infrastructure, to
 promote the establishment o f new service providers,
 strengthening o f WUs and executing agencies, both at the
 central and regional levels.
 4. Project Management, including the Project Coordinating           2.00           0.4        1.40         0.5
 System and support for the development andoperation o fth
 Monitoring and Evaluation System.
                                            Total Project Cost!    525.00         99.4      300.00         99.0
                                                   Front-end fec     3.00           0.6        3.00          1.o
                                    TotalFinancingRequire(         528.00        100.0      303.00         100.0

2. Keypolicyand institutionalreformssupportedbythe project:
The project would seek no major institutionalreforms, but would work within the existing legal and
institutional framework. Nevertheless, the project would establish a system for the effective coordination o f
irrigation related activities between the National Water Commission (ComisidnNacional del Agua,CNA);
the Secretariat o fAgriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and Food (Secretaria de
Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentacidn, SAGARPA); and State Governments,
andwould strengthen existing WUs, or create new ones indistricts where they do not yet exist, to enable
them to assume full responsibility of O&M of the irrigation infrastructure that is being transferred to them
andto have an increasingly larger role inthe investment decision makingprocess. The consolidation o f the
process o f transferringirrigation infrastructure to water users would result ina gradual delegation o f O&M
responsibilities from CNA to the respective WUs, thus further reducing the role o f the State inthis
particular area.




                                                      - 5 -

3. Benefitsand target population:
Benefits: By contributing to an improved competitiveness o f irrigated agriculture production, the project
would establish a solidbasis on which to construct the sustainable development o f the irrigation sector,
which would contribute not only to the overall economic development o fthe country but also to an increase
inirrigatedfarmers' incomes andstandards ofliving, as well as inemployment opportunities. By
improvingthe competitiveness o f irrigatedagriculture particularly by promoting highvalue crops, the
project would contribute also to the successful integrationo f the Mexicaneconomy inNAFTA. Moreover,
improvedefficiency inthe irrigation sector wouldresult ina reduction o f environmental problems relatedto
salinity andwater logging, as well as water savings that could be translated into increased supply for other
sectors o f the economy, currently facing water supply constraints, or altematively, into a contribution
towards the efforts currently underway to stabilize some o f the country's overexploited aquifers.

Decentralization, with increasedparticipationo fW U s inthe operation and maintenance o f irrigation
systems, will reduce the fiscal pressureon the Central Government, thus freeing resourcesthat couldbe
divertedto other priority areas o fthe economy. Furthermore, the full participation of W U s inthe
investment decision makingprocess, together with the development o f public-private sector partnershipsto
finance these investments, would contribute to botha more efficient allocation o fpublic investment
resources and the sustainability o f these investments.

Tarpet Population: Irrigation schemes inMexico can be grouped under two main categories: the small to
medium-scale (100 to 3000 ha) and the large-scale () 3000 ha) systems. The large-scale systems are
dividedinto IrrigationDistricts encompassinga total o f 3.2 millionha (or 60 percent ofthe total irrigated
area). These are irrigatedmostly through surface water sources. The small-scales schemes (usually less
than 100 ha) are grouped insome 44,000 IrrigationUnits,with a total area o f 2.8 million ha, o fwhich 1.5
million ha use surface water and 1.3 millionha use groundwater. Around 1.4 million ha o f these Irrigation
Unitswere developedbyprivate agents. Inthe Irrigation Districts, the constructionandrehabilitationofthe
dams and canal networks has been done by Government and financed almost entirely out o f budgetary
resources; the works, therefore, remainthe property o f the Federal Government. The project's potential
target population would be the 1.1million irrigation farmers currently operating inbothIrrigation Districts
(530,000 producers) andIrrigation Units (590,000 producers). However, given the limitedfinancial
resourcesavailable to the PMIR, the project is expected to provide direct assistanceto about 110,000
farmers. By applying the same rules as those applied by the Alianza andthe CNA investments programs
and strengtheningthe role o f WUs inthe investmentdecision makingprocess, the project would ensure that
therewill be equal access to project benefitsby small and large farmers alike.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
CNA is the sole Government agencyresponsible for the rehabilitation andmodernizationofirrigation
infrastructure inthe country. Consequently, the project's Executing Agency will be CNA, which will
establish a Project Coordinating System(PCS), within its General IrrigationInfrastructure Sub-Division (
Subdireccibn General deInfraestructura Hidroagricola, SGIH), that will coordinate project activities.
CNA would have the mainresponsibilityover the execution o fboththe irrigation infrastructure
rehabilitationandmodemizationcomponent, and the diversification andintensification o firrigated
agriculturalproduction component. SAGARPA, on the other hand, by establishing a Coordinated
Operations Agreement with CNA, would support the project's agricultural productiondiversification and
intensificationactivities through its on-going Alianza programs, inparticular through its MISA
sub-program.




                                                     - 6 -

Project investments are expectedto be demand driven, with decisions regarding investmentprojects to be
financed and investment priorities beingmadeby WUs, with the assistance o f CNA, within the framework
o f the IIIP that would be prepared, with active beneficiary participation, ineach o f the o f the Irrigation
Districts and Irrigation Unitsinwhich project activities would be implemented.

The proposedproject execution would be decentralized, with a strong participation o fproducers and local
authorities inthe decision makingprocess. Coordination ofproject activities at the field levelwould be
achieved through the participatory execution o f IIIPs. Most project activities (Components 1and 2) would
be carriedout by farmers directly, with financing sharedby public andprivate resources.Allocation of
public funding would be made by CNA, which would be responsible for reviewinginvestment proposals
andauthorizingfunds, through either its own budgetary resourcesor the relevant programs o fthe existing
Aliunzu Contigo Program (PAC). As inthe ongoing projects, financial resources would be channeled to
beneficiaries through the State Trust Funds (Fideicomisos), to which State-level governments will
contribute financial resourcesaccording to their development priorities. Incertain cases o f non-transferred
irrigation districts or emergencysituations investments would be carried out directly by CNA.

A Project MonitoringandEvaluationSystem, that wouldbemanagedbythe PCS has beenestablished.
This systemwould be basedon the indicators for project monitoringmentioned inAnnex 2, would identify
the baseline to be definedduring the first year o fproject execution, and would indicate the frequency of
monitoring as well as the contents and frequency o f evaluation reports.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection:
The two World Bank-financed projects inthe irrigation sector have recently ended (Irrigation andDrainage
Sector Project, and On-Farm and Minor IrrigationProject). Therefore, the first alternative considered, was
the preparation of a secondphaseofthese projects to be executedexclusively by CNA. But, while such a
project would most likelyimprove the efficiency o f irrigation infrastructure, both off-farm andon-farm, it
would not address fully the issue o f low productivity o f irrigated agriculture. Consequently, this altemative
was rejected.

The possibility o f executing the above repeaterprojects inparallel with a project to support improvements
inirrigatedagriculture, along the lines ofthe recentlycompleted ALCAMPO Project, butproviding
technical assistance only to irrigation farmers, was rejected also on the grounds that, as inthe past, there
was no guaranteethat bothprojects would be executed simultaneously inthe same irrigation areas.
Therefore, there was no assurance that farmers would receive assistanceto bothrehabilitate their irrigation
infrastructure andimprove the productivity o f irrigated agriculture ina coordinated manner.

Finally, the idea o f a project that would address all water resourcesmanagement problems inthe water
sector, including the irrigation sector, was abandoned infavor o f a project promoting actions specifically
related to managementof irrigation water, leaving the issues related to management instruments and
policies inthe water resources sector ingeneral to be addressedthrough the ongoing World Bank-financed
PROMMA Project (Loan No. 4050-ME), which had beenspecifically designedfor that purpose.
Moreover, for the specific issues related to the over-exploitation o f aquifers, the Bank has adopted a three
pronged approach: (i)sector work is under preparation, which includes, among others, an in-depth
                        a
analysis o f the mainproblems affecting aquifers; (ii)follow-up PROMMA project has beenrequestedby
                                                        a
Government to develop and implement plans for the stabilizationo f aquifers underthreat inthe country;
and (iii) the proposed PMIR Project would contribute to a more efficient use o f irrigated water in



                                                       - 7 -

agriculture and the consequentwater savings inthe sector, which will reduce also the pressureon aquifers.


Consequently, the project opted for a fourth altemative, which was to adopt an integrated approach to
irrigation modemization. Such approachwould provide assistance to imgationfarmers, with emphasis on
farmers' organizations, to address the whole range o f factors currently constraining improved
competitiveness of their crops, whether these are infrastructure or productionrelated, with CNA playing a
central role inboth fronts, with the support of SAGARPA's on-going programs, where applicable.
Nevertheless, within this framework, it is expectedthat the proposed Integrated Irrigation Modemization
Project, by improvingmanagementof irrigation water and eventually makingwater available to other
sectorso fthe economy, would contribute also to an improvedmanagemento fwater resources ingeneral.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bankand/or other development agencies(completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                   Latest SL
                                                       Project                       (PSR) I
                                                                              (Bank-financec
                                                                              Implementation  Development
 Bank-financed                                                                 Progress(IP)  Objective (DO)

 1991-MX-PE-Inigation and Drainage         BRD=US$350 million                       S              S
 Sector Project
 1994-MX-PE-7712-&-Farm & Minor BRD=US$200 million                                  S              S
 Irrigation
 1994-MX-PE-7707-Water &                   BRD=US$350million                        U              U
 Sanitation I1
 1996-MX-PE-7713-Water Resources           BRD=US$186.5 million                     S              S
 Management-PROMMA
 1998-MX-PE-7711-Rural Development BRD= US$47.00 million                            S              S
 Marginal Area
 1999-MX-PE-48505-Agricultural             BRD= US$444.45 million                   S              S
 Product
 2000-MX-PE-5753O-Rural                    BRD= US$55.00 million                    S              S
 Development Marginal Area I1    -
 Renewable Energvfor Amiculture            3EF=USS9.0 million                       S              S
Other development agencies
 IDBIrrigation & Drainage Project
PlDO Ratings: HS (HighlySatisfactory),S latistactoryj,u (unsatistactory),nu (Highly unsatisfactory)




                                                    - 8 -

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedin the project design:
Several important lessons have beeneither learnedor reinforcedby the experience of other projects
implementation, inparticular, that o f Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project ("Time Slice") andOn-Farm
and Minor IrrigationProject ("PRODEP").

         1.       While bothWorld Bank-financed projects made progress inthe rehabilitationand
         modernization o f the country's irrigation infrastructure, their achievementswere less than
         satisfactory when it came to improvements inthe productivity o f irrigated agriculture and
         diversification towards higher value crops, thus indicating the needto establish a close link
         between actions oriented to infrastructure improvements and those aiming at production
         improvements.

         ii. Thecountry's experiencewiththetransferofirrigationinfrastructuretowaterusershas
         been positive and should be consolidated. This positive experience has resultednot only inbetter
         andless costly O&M ofimgationinfrastructure, but also ina reductioninthe government
         budgetary contribution to the irrigation sector.

         iii. Thereisgreatadvantageinincludingpotentialbeneficiariesinthedecision-makingprocess
         regarding infrastructure investment and other project activities. Their involvement provides not
         only "ownership" of the proposed sub-projects, and contributes to the viability and sustainability o f
         investment,butresults also inbettertargetedprojects andactivities that respondto the real needs
         o f beneficiaries. Inthis context, institutional strengthening o f W U s becomesan essentialpart of
         any irrigation modernization project.

         iv.      Technical assistance inthe selection o f appropriate technology, with irrigation farmers'
         participation, become important elements ina program aiming at improved competitiveness o f
         irrigated crops.

         v.       Inanyfuture irrigationdevelopment agenda: (a) the sectorwouldbenefitfrom amore
         decisive decentralization of CNA,both to the States andto WUs; (b) the development of a
         mechanism to monitor performance and a benchmarkingsystemcould improve accountability ina
         service that is a naturalmonopoly; and(c) the issues o f the availability o f water resources, and
         environmental issues should be incorporated as primary elements o f any program.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitmentand ownership:
The project is an integral part o f the Government program to modernize the irrigation sector and improve
the competitiveness o f irrigated agriculture, which began with the two previousWorld Bank-fmanced
projects. The transfer o f irrigation infrastructure to water users is an ongoing process, which the project
would attempt to consolidate.
CNA and SAGARPA havejoinedforces inthe preparation o fthe proposedproject, andagreedto work in
close collaboration duringproject implementation, ina clear indication o f the political support that the idea
of an integrated approach to the modemization o f both irrigationinfrastructure and irrigated agriculture i s
receivingfrom Government.

5. Value added of Banksupportinthis project:
The World Bank has an extensive experience inirrigation development projects andhas been
accompanying irrigation development inMexico for the last twenty years and is, therefore, well placed to



                                                        - 9 -

assist the Government inits effort to adopt an integrated approach to improve the efficiency o f irrigation
infrastructure and the competitiveness o f irrigation agriculture. Bankparticipation inthe project would
complement central and State level government expertise, bringinglessons and insights from related
projects inother countries to ensure the design o f an effective program o f technical andfmancial assistance
to improve the efficiency and productivity o f the irrigation sector, and secure the effective participation o f
beneficiaries inthe design andexecution o f project-fmanced investment and activities. The Bank can foster
also the development o f a partnership between CNA and SAGARF'A         for the integrated development o f the
irrigation sector.
Furthermore, recent experiences with the implementation o f World Bank-fmanced programs designed to
provide improvedproduction equipment and technical assistance to farmers (ALCAMPO) and develop and
implement water resources management instruments and policies (PROMMA) would contribute also to a
better implementation o f the proposed Integrated Irrigation Modernization Project.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$259.7 million; ERR = 20.1 % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
Given the demand-driven nature o f activities to be executedunder the project, it is not possible to determine
apriori the exact composition o fthe universe o f investment sub-projects that will be financed under the
project. Consequently, as only activities identified andpresented by potential beneficiaries would be
considered, an ex-ante determination o f costs andbenefits o f productive investments would not be feasible.
Therefore, economic return estimates were based only on a sample o f investment sub-projects likely to be
demanded by beneficiaries, following the experience o fthe last two projects implementedwith Bank
assistance inthe irrigation sector. The impact o f these investments on agricultural productivity and
farmers' income was analyzed with the help o f farm models illustrative o f typical farming situations inthe
main agro-ecological zones. Assumptions regarding yield increases are conservative to reflect the
risk-minimizing production strategies that normally characterize farmers. The estimated overall rate o f
retum o fthe project thus includes only part, albeit a substantial part, of the possible investments to be
financed under the project, but ifpresentedhere to give an indication o f the order o f magnitude o fthe
economic returns that can be expected from the proposed project.

Economic return calculations included the cost of incremental on-farm productive investment and recurrent
expenditure for the adoption o f sustainable agriculturalproduction systems promoted under the project.
The analysis o f the sample of representative subprojects indicatedthat economic returns on most
investments by irrigation farmers are likely to be relatively high (Le. >20%). The exception being those
models with wheat or maize andbeans as main crops, which are not economically viable and, consequently,
being excluded from the overall economic analysis as they would not be eligible for project financingunder
the agreed eligibility criteria.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 565.2 million; FRR = 50.5 % (see Annex 4)
The financial analysis was carriedout to assess the financial viability o f a sample o f productive
investments most likely to be demandedby irrigation farmers, along the lines followed for the economic
analysis. The fmancial viability o f these investments was analyzed within the framework o f the most
common production systems usedby irrigation farmers usingthe same set o f farm models prepared for the
economic analysis. As is to be expected, given the level o f subsidy provided to the various off- and on-farm



                                                     - 10-

investments under the project, the selected farm model showed very highfinancial rates o freturn. Increases
infarmers' income, as a result o fproject-financed on-farm investment, rangedfrom about 10percent to
over 60 percent at full development. Input and output prices were assumed constant, as was the real
exchange rate, throughout the 20 year time horizon used inthe financial analysis. The discount rate was
assumed to be 12 percent.

Fiscal Impact:
The project will be implemented by CNA, which has a total budget for 2003 o f about US$ 1.1billion
equivalent at the federal level. The total cost of the PMIR Project, excluding farmers' contribution, is
estimated at about U S 5 2 8 million. The proposed project would support ongoing CNA programs and
would operate within the existing budget allocation o f CNA, and will not generate additional budgetary
financial requirements for the Federal Government beyond the close to US$80 millionper annum in
matching-grants already foreseen inCNA's budget for these programs. The subsidies that Government
provides under its current PROCAMPO program, which would benefit some o f the project beneficiaries,
has been estimated at about another US$40million per annum, but these would come out the normal
budget o f SAGARPA and are not a direct consequence o fproject activities. Should PROCAMPObe
phased out prior to project completion, levels of government funding to the sector are nevertheless expected
to remain at the current level.

For the purpose o f estimating total project cost, it has been assumed conservatively that the 2003 level of
budgetary resources will be kept throughout the project life, Le., that there will be no budget increases. The
project's incremental operating costs are less than 1percent o f total costs, while productive investment and
expenditure directly benefitingmostly medium- and small- sized farmers (i.e., technical assistance and
training) account for 99 percent o f total project cost. Incremental tax revenues accrued to the Federal
Government as a result ofproject activities would be negligible as sales o f goods and services inthe
agricultural sector are exempt from the Value Added Tax (VAT). Income tax revenues from incremental
profitability o f on-farm production would not have much impact o n the budgetary situation given both the
relatively small number o fbeneficiaries andthe presence o f a substantial number o f small farmers among
beneficiaries. Consequently, while the fiscal impact o f the project would be negative, it would remain
within the limits o fcurrent CNA activities.

3. Technical:
The project i s considered technically sound, given that:

    0   The main constraints to improvedproductivity o f irrigated agriculture have been adequately
        identified duringproject preparation and included inthe implementation strategy o f the project.

    0   Farmers' participation ininvestment decision makingprocess and the demand-driven approach that
        will characterize project execution have already beentested by implementing agencies.

    0   The main technical aspects o f the on-going matching grant scheme that would be adopted by the
        project have been definedduringpreparation.

    0   The potential for increased diversificationo f production andhigher yields o f traditional crops inthe
        irrigation sector is significant and will be strongly promoted by the project.

    0   The compliance o f individual beneficiary sub-projects with acceptable technical and operational
        standards would be ensured through a combination o f instruments, includingthe participatory
        preparation o f HIP, provision o f technical support for the identification andpreparation of


                                                      - 11-

         investment proposals, and the establishment o f a detailed monitoring and evaluation system,

    0    The project supports CNA's efforts inWRM mainly by ensuringthat irrigation districts develop
         adequatesystems to determine hydrological balances.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:
The project's implementing entity will be Comisibn Nacional del Agua (CNA), which would have the main
responsibility over the execution of all project components (with support o f the Secretaria de Agricultura,
Ganaderia, Recursos Naturales, Pesca y Alimentacion         - SAGARPA), including financial management
activities. Project investments are expected to be demand driven, with decisions regarding investment
projects to be financed and investment priorities being made by W U s or with active beneficiary
participation (depending on the specific characteristics o f each component). Most project activities would
be carried out by f m e r s directly, with financing sharedby public andprivate resources.

Although project design poses a considerable institutional challenge due to the decentralized nature o f
implementation and the need for adequate coordination between SAGARPA and CNA, the project i s
considered institutionally sound. This assessment is based on the fact that both CNA's programs supporting
irrigation development and the Alianza Contigo operate as a financial and operational partnershipbetween
Federal and State institutions. As a result, the roles and responsibilities o f institutions involved in the
beneficiary subproject cycle are well defmed, a key element for successful implementation o f the main
component o fthe project.

The current weaknesses in the W U s that will be involved in the implementation o f the project were
identified during preparation as a result of a comprehensive WU Institutional Assessment and would be
addressed by the project as part of the Institutional Strengthening Component, with emphasis on the
administrative, environmental, andmonitoring and evaluation capacity o f the WUs.
4.2 Project management:
The proposedproject managementstructure is considered adequatefor the needs o f the project. A Project
Coordinating System (PCS), composedmainly o f CNA staff, will be establishedwithin the Subdireccion
General de Infraestructura Agricola (SGIH). These arrangementsappears to be operationally viable, as
they take into consideration SHCPs reluctance to allocate funds to finance the establishment o f project
units. Mainresponsibilities would be overall coordination o fproject activities, supervise preparation of
IIIPs, liaison with SAGARPA, supervise the operation o f the M&E System, and reporting to G O M and
Bank on project activities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
As indicated inAnnex 6, CNA'sextensive experience implementing Bank projects, minimizes the risks in
relationto project procurement. Furthermore, the increased participation o f W U s inthe procurement
process (through the implementation o f IIIPs) would ensure the overall effectiveness and sustainability of
goods, works and servicesprocured under the project.
4.4 Financialmanagementissues:
There are no major risks inrelationto financial management, given the long standing experience o f CNA
andNAFINwith financial managemento fWorld Bank projects.



                                                     - 12-

A financial management (FM) assessment was conducted to evaluate the FM arrangements for the
proposed project and the CNA capacity to effectively manage and implementthe project and to provide the
Bank with accurate andtimely information. Inaddition the Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA), nearly completed, covers public financial accountability arrangements at the federal level,
including a FMrisk assessment section. CFAA main conclusion is that Mexico has adequate FM capacity,
reliable information systems and considerable degree of transparency, however certain weaknesses do exist.
The CFAA team recommends the incorporation o f a more efficienueffective approach to the administrative
aspects ofpublic FMandfor makingintemavextemalaudit functions more systematic andrisk-based.

On the basis of the assessment carried out, the financial management team concludes the following: (i)
although some project-specific mechanisms will need to be implemented for the new project, existing
financial management arrangements for Bank projects currently under implementation o f CNA are
operational and considered to form a sound basis for this operation. The most important FM elements are
budgeting, accounting, funds flow, internal control, reporting, external audit, written procedures, FM
staffing and information systems and (ii)while FM risk is low, project implementation should be
accompanied by a close supervision that allows earlier detection o f financial management issues and
ensures the proper use o f the project funds. FMarrangementsfor Bank projects currently utilizedby CNA
are operational andwill be appropriate for the Irrigation and Drainage Modernization project.

The main findings from the FM assessment are the following: (i) has experience implementing Bank
                                                                    CNA
financed projects and is staffed with trained and experienced professionals; (ii) implementationwill
                                                                                 project
be supported by NAFN, also with ample experience in Bank financed projects; (iii)existing CNA's
financial management arrangements are hlly operational for both, CNA's current activities and Bank
projects under implementation; (iv) extemal audits are already carried out by auditors acceptable to the
Bank -private firms- and there are no outstanding audit reports; (v) CNA's accounting polices and
procedures are acceptable to the Bank, however (vi) although CNA is up-grading its financial management
system, it is not able to produce FMRs yet; (vii) although financial management policies and procedures
are acceptable to the Bank, CNA does not have written support; and (viii) high degree o f decentralization
and the need of strong coordination between CNA, the state committees implementing the project, the
general auditor Secretaria de la Funcidn Pziblica -SFP- and project auditors to carry out annual audits.
The agreedaction plan, inAnnex 6, will address these weaknesses.

Based on this assessment, it was agreed that FM supervision missions will be conducted on an annual
basis. The aim is to mitigate possible unfavorable results caused by any weaknesses in project
implementation capacity o f CNA.
5. Environmental:                          EnvironmentalCategory: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarizethe steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project seeks to improve agriculturalproductivity and encouragethe adoption o f rational water use in
existing irrigation schemes (districts), inwhich the development o f environmentally-sustainable production
systemswill be promoted. Since project components and activities will be orientedtowards supporting
integrated investmentplans that would only include rehabilitation o f existinginfrastructure, and
construction o fnew infrastructure is not foreseen, the combined effects o f these two features leadto the
conclusion that no significant negative environmental impacts from project activities can be envisaged.
Furthermore, improvedmanagement o f irrigation water will reduce water loggingand soil salinity, with the
consequentpositive environmental impact.

The project implementingagency will be CNA, which has more than 15 years o f experience working with

                                                     - 13-

the Bank inirrigation andwater resourcesmanagement development projects for Mexico. This long
experience has allowed the Bank to recognize CNA as an institution with adequateenvironmental standards
and regulations, which are critical to secure compliance with the Bank's environmental andsocial
safeguardpolicies. Inaddition, although not financed by the project, crop diversification subprojects would
be implementedby SAGARPA through the ongoing Alianza programwhich has beenfinanced partially
through a Bank loanuntilearly 2003.

The environmentalassessmentwork for this project was conducted intwo stages. The first, the Sectoral
Environmental Assessment (SEA), has beencompleted as part o fproject preparation. Details o f the SEA
are described inSection 5.2. The secondstage i s the EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) o f each subproject to
be financed by the project, which will be preparedduringproject implementationat the Irrigation District,
ImgationUnit,or sub-project module level, as part o f the process for the subproject formulation and
approval. These subproject EAs will assess specific potential environmental impacts (related to water
quality and quantity, possible effects on wetlands, pest management, etc.) and will describe the
corresponding mitigation or enhancementmeasures (including budget, schedule, implementation
responsibilities, andmonitoring of compliance and outcomes); these environmental measures will be
incorporated inthe respective IIIPs.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
Since activities to be implementedunderthe project will be determined by demand from beneficiaries, the
type o f studies that will be required cannot be identifiedat this stage. However, criteria to define the type of
environmental impact evaluations requiredfor the various subprojects and the mechanisms for the
implementation o f these evaluations, have been definedduringproject preparation andhave been
incorporated into the Project Operation Manual.

The SEA has examined the key environmental managementissues for the irrigation sector inMexico and
has conducted a comprehensive assessment of the (i)      national environmental regulations, (ii) CNA's
environmental standardsand procedures, (iii)     evaluation o f institutional capacity and, (iv) monitoring and
enforcement mechanisms. Based onthe SEA results, the project's activities and their potential impact
concerning the following Bank safeguardpolicies will be closely monitored
         EnvironmentalAssessment       - each subproject to be financed by the project, would prepareandEA
         duringproject implementationat the Irrigation District, IrrigationUnit,or sub-project module
         level, as part o f the process for the subproject formulation and approval.
         Natural Habitats    - SEA provides data basemaps which show overlaps between DRs, protected
         areas, and critical degradedlands. Subproject EAs would screen for possible impacts on wetlands
         or other naturalhabitats and incorporate appropriate mitigationmeasureswithin subproject design
         andcorresponding IIIP.
         Pest Management the project would not procure any pesticides. TOR o f IIIPs would provide for
                              -
         training andtechnical assistance inpest management, for those subprojects involvingchangesin
         crops or cultivationmethods.
         DamSafety subprojectswhichuse water from existingdamswould include documentation of the
                       -
         safety o f those dams; this information would be available from CNA.
         Cultural Property all civil works biddingdocuments, contracts, and work orders would follow
                             -
         standard environmental rules for contractors (including chance finds procedures for cultural
         property).
         International Waterways    - through  existing commitments the US.government has beennotified by
         CNA inaccordancewith the requirements specified inOPiBP 7.50.




                                                      -14-

Inadditiontothe above-mentioned assessments,the SEAincludedthedevelopmentof(i) toidentify    maps
mainprotected areas inMexico (hotspots) andtheir linkages to irrigatedareas; (ii)     a Pest Management
Framework; (iii)   environmental training program for CNA and SAGARPA staff members; and (iv)
mechanisms for appropriate public participation inthe design and review o f irrigation projects.

The proposed EMP and associated studies are considered adequate. The following considerations from the
EMP will be taken into account:

    0    The project will not include the construction o f new major infrastructure or expansion o f irrigated
         areas.
    0    There will be no increase inwater volumes utilized or opening o fnew irrigation water sources. In
         addition the project will support CNA'smonitoring efforts, with particular reference to monitoring
         water balances inparticipating Irrigation Districts.
    0    The eligible structural and nonstructural minor works will be classified inthree types according to
         their dimension and relationto the existence o f overexploited aquifers:

Type 1: those minor civil works inwhich the groundwater supply source i s critical (at risk) because o f its
overexploitation or its salinity. Inthis case, the Type 1works will require an EA anda hydrological
balance to identify potential environmental impacts.

Type 2: minor civil works that will use surface water for irrigation purposes. This water could be related
directly to critical aquifers or indirectly to non critical, cases inwhich the CNA should determine the
content o fthe EA.

Type 3: those minor civil works inwhich the water supply source is superficial andit i s not related to
critical aquifers. Inthis case, CNA should comply with the current Mexican environmental legal
framework.

The EMP actions will be linked to the Mexicanenvironmental legal framework and authority.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: August 6,2003

5.4 H o w have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
CNA'scurrent procedures include an active consultation process involving all users and concemed parties.

The preparation o f the SEA included public consultation events specifically on the environmental aspects.
Also CNA's existing procedures include an active consultation process with all users andconcerned
parties. Inthis context, a number o f representatives o f public and private sector institutions, including
academia, environmental agencies, andNGOs, were consulted about a draft o f the SEA. There were no
major objections to project design. Fromthe consultation process it was suggested that the following
indicators be involved for the purpose o fproject environmental monitoring: efficiency, health and
sustainability, water quality, toxicological statistics.

The SEA recommendedmechanisms for appropriate public participation inthe design andreview o f
irrigation subprojects. A description o f the whole consultationprocess is included inthe project's SEA. The
final SEA will be posted inthe CNA web page. For all individual subcomponents requiring EAs, the



                                                        - 1 5 -

stakeholders will be consulted by the firmthat carries out the study.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Environmental indicators such as improved water use efficiency and water savings will be included inthe
project's overall M&E System, as well as indicators to measure the impact o f sub-projects on the
environment and on water balances inIrrigation Districts. Furthermore, inareas o f water scarcity, specific
indicators will be developed to measure the contribution o f irrigation systems to the stabilization o f
aquifers. Reduced overexploitation o f aquifers will be a main indicator.

The following indicators have been developed as part o f project's design to monitor and evaluate the
impacts o f the project inthe environment (see Annex 1):

    0    Number o f small works rehabilitated by type o f works
    0    Number o f works modernized by type o f works
    0    Number o f hectares desalinated
    0    Groundwater use as a percentage o f recharge
    0    Efficiency improvement and water conservation mechanisms inplace
    0    Adoption o f improved irrigation methods
    0    Percentage o f water logged areas reduced
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A SocialiBeneficiary Assessment for this project has been carriedout as part o fproject preparation, based
on the Bank's criteria.

The main social issue is the duality present inall irrigation schemes which, as inthe case o f the agricultural
sector ingeneral, is characterizedby the presence o f modem highly competitive irrigation producers, with
advanced irrigation technologies, on the one hand, and small producers irrigating with traditional methods
and low productivity, on the other.

Under these circumstances, the project proposes two lines o f action to address this issue:

1. Improved access o f small farmers to project benefits: through special incentives for bothoff-farm and
on-farm investment, combined with measures to strengthen current technical assistance and training
programs for small farmers; and

2. Strengthening o fWUs: through special training and technical assistance programs for managers,
technical and general members o f W U s at the level o f both irrigation District and Irrigation Units. Project
activities inthis area will include: legal assistance inwater rights, water markets, training and technical
services inmanagement and communication, and quality control. Given that the PMIRProject will be
demand-driven project, it i s essential to strengthen water users' organizations to guarantee the full
participation o f small farmers inthe decision making process regarding investment priorities as well as in
the subsequent execution o f sub-projects financed under the PMIR.

Through these measures, it is expected that small farmers will participate fully inthe investment decision
makingprocess andhave proper accessto the project incentives andbenefits. As a result, they will increase
their rural incomes from agricultural sources, and hence, improve their social well-being, and shorten the


                                                      - 16-

technological and economic gap that separates them from modern commercial irrigation farmers.
Appropriate indicators will be developedto measure the social impact o f project-financed investments.

Additionally, on the basis o f the lessons learned during implementation o f the last two World
Bank-financedprojects inthe sector, the PMIR will improve the M&E mechanism to ensure not only that
the project's impact on small farmers is properly measured, but also that this information is conveyed on a
timely basis to the Project Coordinating System and is used as a basis for any adjustments inproject
execution that mightbe required to improve small farmer's access to project benefits.

a. Environmental category:          [ ]     A       [XI B           [I C               [IFI

b. JustificationRationale for category rating: See item 5.1 above.

c. Local groups andNGOs consulted (list names):

    0    IndividualW U s andthe National Association o f Water Users (ANUR)have participated inthe
         project preparation process.
    0    Colegiode Postgraduados at an academic level.

d. Resettlement: [XI None


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

(1.1) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:

The project's approach is demand driven; consequently, W U s will be involved at every stage o f the
decision-making process regarding the design and execution o f investment proposals andother activities to
be financed under the project.

There was a substantial participation o f W U s duringthe preliminary identification o f potential demand for
investments to rehabilitate water infrastructure, andthey will have an active participation inthe preparation
of Integrated Irrigation Investment Plans for each o f the areas inwhich project investment proposals will be
implemented.

As part of project implementation, users will systematically be involvedin the assessment o fthe
implementationo f the Integrated Irrigation Investment Plans and the effectiveness their organizations inthe
process. For this, a participatory impact evaluation system will be implementedat the level o f each of the
participating DR andUR,which will pay particular attention to possible project-induced changes inthe
roles of family members inthe small farming communities andthe identification o f particularly vulnerable
families or individuals inthe project areas.

 [x 3 Name anddescribe groups (how involved, andwhat they have influencedor may influence.)

    0    A"Rwasactivelyconsultedduringprojectpreparationandwillbeencouragedto submittheir
         demands through their respective Districts or Units.
    0    Small and communal farmers at a module level.
    0   WUsandSRLs

Other key stakeholders:


                                                    - 1 7 -

[ ]Nameanddescribegroups (how involved, andwhat theyhaveinfluenced.)
public and private sector institution, including academia, environmental agencies and, NGOs.
         Colegio de Postgraduados de Chapingo
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?


    0   There will be an increasing role o f Irrigation WUs, bothinIrrigation Districts and Units,
        throughout project implementation, which would be supported by the project's institutional
        strengthening activities.
    0   Institutional strengtheningWUs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?


    0   Highdegree ofdecentralization andacommitment ofstrong coordinationbetweenCNA,local
        governments and the WUs.
    0   Project investments will be demanddriven, with decisions regarding investment projects to be
        financed and investment priorities beingmade by W U s or with active beneficiary participation
        (dependingonthe specific characteristics of eachcomponent). Most project activities will be
        carried out by farmers directly, with financing sharedby public and privateresources.
    0   The project will support training and communication betweenmodules to share knowledge and
        experiencesinmanaging and implementingtheir systems.
    0   Communication and difksion strategy: the project would develop andimplement a communication
        strategy that will be basedon an analysis o f (i)  social situation inthe project area; (ii)
                                                                                                  potential
        resistanceby small farmers; (iii)   opportunities to enhanceimpacts; (iv) participatory identification
        of major themes o f interest to small farmers such as presentation o f demands, eligibility criteria,
        etc, (v) preparation o f informational campaigns, selection o fmedia andlaunching o f campaigns,
        and (vi) impact assessmento f campaign. Details o f the communication strategy was discussedat
        appraisal and would be implementedby the Project Coordinating System.

As part of this Communication Strategy, CNA, with the participation o f state governments inthe various
states, will ensure that the following information is included:
    a. operation rules with the procedures for fmancing irrigation infi-astrucutre investment will be
    available to all the project's beneficiaries
    b. details of the water productivity indexes and the technical specifications for irrigated agricultural
    productionwith special reference to small producers' production system; and
    c. periodic reports on the numbero fbeneficiaries ineachregion scheme.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
The following indicators have beenidentified to monitor performance interms o f social development:
    0   irrigatedarea under small farmers benefited by the project and number o f small irrigation farmers
        inthe irrigation units andirrigation districts benefited bythe project
    0   impact of project activities on small farmer income
    0   numberof small farmers trained
    0   number of small farmers to which technical assistancewas provided
    0   numberofW U s trained
    0   numberofnew SRLs established
    0   numberof SRLs trained



                                                     - 1 8 -

7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are anv o f the followinp. safermarduolicies triggered bv the uroiect?
      ~                       v     Policy
                                    v                 vu
                                                                                          Triggered
    Environmental Assessment(OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                              0 Yes 0    NO
    Satural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                     0 Yes 3    NO
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                      0Yes 0     NO
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                        0 Yes 0 No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                    0 Yes 0    NO
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                     0 Yes 0    NO
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                            0 Yes 0    NO
    Safe9 of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                                 0 Yes 0    NO
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                     0 Yes 0No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)"                          0Yes 0     NO


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Given the demand driven nature o fthe project, there is no assurance that any of the Bank policies will be
triggered. However, policy could be triggered based on the specific nature o f investment andmodernization
plans proposed by individual irrigation districts or units.

Project area includes only land already under irrigation, andtherefore, there is no risk of disputed areas or
areas with preserved natural habitats being affected by the project. The same i s true for forestry, and, since
there will be no new works, the project will not have to address issues related to involuntary resettlements.
The need to develop a framework to addressthe implications o f the eventual decision to reduce the size o f
certain irrigation districts would be addressed through a series o f specific consultancies on the subject.

Inall cases, safeguards that will be triggered and its mitigation measures to be adopted, will be identified
duringthe preparation o f irrigation investment plans.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The transfer o f irrigation infrastructure to water users' associations, which includes also the transfer of
O&M responsibilities, together with measures to ensure the financial sustainability o fthese associations,
would guarantee the sustainability o f project investment. Furthermore, increased competitiveness of
irrigated agricultural sector, would contribute also to a sustainable development o f the irrigation sector.


2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):


                     Risk                     1     Risk Rating     I             Risk Mitigation Measure         1
From Outputs to Objective
There is inadequate support by CNA to                    M           Efforts made by CNA duringpreparation
project objectives.                                                  demonstrate clear support for the project.
Government is not fully committed to the                 S           Progress made with transfer o f irrigation
transfer process and to promotion o f crop                           districts to beneficiaries would demonstrate
diversification.                                                     political will to consolidate the process.
Lack o f expertise to carry out training                 M           Involvement o fthe Post-Graduate College o f



                                                       - 1 9 -

 events.                                                           Chapingo and IMTA inthe training program
                                                                   would solve any eventual shortage of expertise
                                                                   for training inCNA.
 Lack o fgovemment commitment to the                   M           The proposedproject submittedby CNA
 strengthening o f CNA.                                            includes an institutional strengthening
                                                                   component.
 PCS lacks resources to adequately                     M           CNA has a longstanding experience with
 managethe project.                                                managing World Bank-financedprojects, plus
                                                                   there are funds for technical assistanceinthe
                                                                   project to address any short coming that might
                                                                   occur.
 From Components to Outputs
 Inadequateparticipation o fbeneficiaries              M           Project-financed training andinstitutional
 inthe identification ofpriorities.                                strengtheningof water user's associationswould
                                                                   ensure effective participation o fbeneficiaries.
 Beneficiaries do not have the necessary               M           Alianza programs, which are based on a
 financial capacity to pay for counterpart                         matching-grant basis, should reduce
 funding.                                                          significantly the potential difficulties o f
                                                                   beneficiaries to finance counterpart.
 Managerialcapacity of executing agency                M           CNAhas along standing experience with
 insufficient.                                                     managing World Bank-financedprojects, plus
                                                                   there are fimds for technical assistanceinthe
                                                                   project to address any short comings that might
                                                                   occur.
 Overall Risk Rating                                   M
I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRis , M (Modest Risk), FNegligible or Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:
No controversial aspects are envisaged.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition


0    Execution of agreement between NAFINand SHCP.

2. Other [classifyaccording to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]


0    At negotiations, the borrower submitted a (i) Project Operation Manual, that includes terms o f
                                                    Draft
     reference for key consultants, standardterms o freference for the preparation o f the Integrated
     Irrigation Investment Plans; and financial management, procurement and safeguard procedures and; (ii)
     a draft agreement between CNA and SAGARPA for project implementation.

DatedCovenants
0    Agreementbetween CNA and SAGARPA for project implementationto be signed by March2004.




                                                     - 20 -

0   Carry out subprojects following procedures o f Operation Manual.

0   Mid-term Review to be conducted at the end o f 2006.

0   Inform the Bank o f any changes to the rules of operation for Imgation subprojects prior to
    incorporating inthe Operation Manual.

0   Enter into agreements with WU (prior to disbursement for the respective subproject)

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsfor thefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyfor thestart
         o f project implementation.
Ixi1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
       project implementation.
iXi 3. The Project ImplementationPlanhas been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
       quality.
[?4. The following items are lacking and are discussedunderloanconditions (Section G):



1.  Compliance with Bank Policies
    1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedfor approval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                   -21  -

                                   Annex 1: Project DesignSummary
                          MEXICO: Integrated Irrigation Modernization Project
                                   Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
  Hierarchyof Objectives               Indicators                                            Critical Assumptions
Sector-relatedCAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:            Sector1country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
~~




Accelerating growth through   Rateof growth of irrigated    CNA and SAGAWA Reports Needto maintain the
competitiveness.              agricultural production.      on Production in Imgation     country's political, social and
                                                            Districts and Units.          economic stability and the
                                                            Project Reports.              Government's commitment to
                                                                                          the project.

Balancing growth and          Reduce irrigation water       Specific reports and studies. Government commitment to
environmental protection.     consumption inareas of                                      environmentally sustainable
                              overexploited aquifers.                                     imgation development.

Building an efficient,        Reform ofdecision-making      CNA reports and specific      Government commitment to
transparentand accountable    process, with major           studies by specialized        transfer o f irrigation
govemment, to which the       participation o f WUs in      consultants.                  infrastructure and intensify
decentralization o f imgation management of irrigation.                                   decentralization.
development decision-making
will contribute.                                                                          Effective participation by
                                                                                          water users, particularly in
                                                                                          Irrigation Units.




                                                        - 22 -

  Hierarchy of Objectives                                      -Data Collection Strategy
                                                                                                    cal Assumptions
Project Development         liOutcome / Impact                 Project reports:            I(from  Objective to Goal)     d


Objective:                    Indicators:
To improve the                Improvement o f Financial        Base Line Studies            The commitment o f CNA and
competitiveness o f irrigated Efficiency Indicators o f        Periodic reports preparedby  SAGARPA to jointly execute
agriculture inboth Irrigation Irrigated Agriculture in         CNA and SAGARPA.             project activities.
Districts and IrrigationUnits Mexico.                          Ex-ante and ex-post
inMexico, using an                                             assessments.                 The needfor effective
integrated approach.                                                                        participation o f users.

To modernize existing         No. of Irrigation Districts and Periodic reportspreparedby    Ongoing technical assistance
irrigation infrastructure and Irrigation Units with            CNA and some researchwith commitment by CNA and
improve water use efficiency. modernized infrastructure.       users.                       SAGARPA, in an integrated
                              For Irrigation Districts and                                  manner.
                              Irrigation Units located in
                              areas with the over-exploited
                              aquifers, % o f reduction in
                              water consumption.


To promote diversificationto  Indicatorsthat show an           Reports generated by the     Price structure faced by
high-value crops.             increase inthe areas under       Project Team, based on       farmers encourages increased
                              high-value crops.                information from awarded     production o fhigh-value
                                                               operations and research with crops.
                                                               beneficiaries.
To consolidate transfer       Indicators that show the         Reports generated by CNA.    The commitment o fthe
irrigation infrastructure to  consolidation of the process of Reports of Users'             Government to
water users' associations.    transfemng irrigation            Associations.                decentralization i s sustained.
                              infrastructure to users, such as
                              number o f Districts
                              transferred, number o f SRLs
                              created, hectares transferred.




                                                          - 23 -

                                    Key Performance            Data Collection Strategy
   Hierarchyof Objectives    -           Indicators                                        CriticalAssumptions
                                                                                        d
htput from each               Output Indicators:              Projectreports:            from Outputsto Objective)
~~~




:omponent:
   .Irrigation Infrastructure  - No. of small works           %-annualproject monitoring leneficiaries havethe
nd Systems, andcollective     rehabilitatedby type of works; and evaluationreports.      Necessaryfinancial capacityto
kainage, duly modernized       - No. ofworks modemizedby                                 lay for counterpart.
ndrehabilitated.               type ofworks;
                              - No.  ofprojectssubmitted.     Projectmid-term review.    lffective participationof
                                                                                         ieneficiariesinthe definition
                              - No. of Planssubmittedfor                                 ifpriorities.
                              financing
                                                                                         iffective support of CNA.



!.On-FarmIrrigation            - No. of improvedon-farm       Bi-annualprogram           tealparticipation ofusers in
jystemstechnologically         imgation equipmentby type      monitoring and evaluation  he definition ofpriorities.
mproved.                       of equipment;                  reports.
                              -- No. ofhectares leveled;                                 3eneficiaries' counterpart
                                 No. ofhectares of saline     Mid-term review mission.   :apacity.
                              soils recovered.



La. Users' Associations       - No.  ofUsers' Associations    Monitoringreportsand       3overnment's commitmentto
:rested, strengthenedand                                      mid-term review mission.   ransfer process.
)etter trained.               -created(SRL);
                                 No. of EvaluationStructures
                              created;
                              - No. of IntegratedInvestment
                               Imgation Plans (IP)
                              implemented;                                               3xistenceof expertise to carry
                              - No. of Irrigation                                        )uttraining events.
                              Managementinstruments
                              -suppliedand/or events
                                               supported;
                                 No. oftraining
                              promoted;
                              - No. of peopletrainedby type
                              of training;
                              - No. of firms providing
                              services created.


!.b. Project executing        - Indicatorsof  institutional   &-annual program           Governmentcommitmentto
igencies supportedand         improvementsinCNA.              monitoring and evaluation  the strengthening of CNA.
itrengthened.                                                 reports.                   Priority of institutional
                                                                                         management regarding
                                                                                         institutional strengthening
                                                                                         efforts.
t. Project adequately         - Existence of PCS.             Missions andMonitoring     Government commitmentto
nanaged.                                                      Reports.                   set up aprojectmanagement
                               - Existenceofproject                                      structure.
                              monitoring and evaluation                                  Existenceoftechnical trainin1
                              system.                                                    inthe PCSto managethe
                                                                                         Project.


                                                          - 24 -

                                    Key Performance             Data CollectionStrategy
  Hierarchyof Objectives
                   -                    indicators          -                                  CriticalAssumptions
Project Components I          Inputs: (budgetfor each          'reject reports:
                                                                              -:fromComponents                     to
Sub-components:               component)                                                     Sutputs)
1) Modemization and           USS406 million for proposals 3x-anteand ex-post                'articipation o f beneficiaries
Rehabilitationo f Irrigation  submitted by beneficiaries, in ub-project assessments.         nthe identification of
Infrastructure inIrrigation   the form of matching grants      'roject monitoring and        xiorities and inthe financing
Districts and Units           with a minimum 50%               :valuation reports as well as ifinvestment subprojects.
                              counterpart.                     roject supervision and
                                                               nid-term review reports.

                                                               zinancial audit reports.

2) Diversification and        US$87 million for technical       CR - Implementation          ?artkipationo fbeneficiaries
Intensificationo f Irrigated  upgrading of Farm Irrigation     Zompletion Report             nthe definition ofpriorities;
Agricultural Production.      Structure proposals and          ?x-anteand ex-post
                              support services.                iub-project assessments.      3eneficiaries' ability to
                                                                                             :ontribute counterpart.
                                                               ivaluations of the Alianza
                                                               :ontigo Program.              Priority andcommitment o f
                                                                                             sovernment, and especially of
                                                               'roject monitoring and        ZNA and SAGARPA, to the
                                                               :valuation reports.           ?reject.

3) Training and Institutional US$30million.                    jame as components 1 and 2.   3overnment commitment to
Development                                                                                  ransfer process.
                              US$4.5million for
3.1a) Support to water users' constitution and strengthening                                 There should be active
organizations and the process D fUsers' Associations and for                                 participation by beneficiaries.
o f transferring Irrigation   CNA for the preparation o f                                    Beneficiaries and Government
Systems.                      IP, support for improving                                      technicians should be aware.
                              management instruments
3.lb) Support to project      training and equipment.                                        There should be the ability for
executing agency (CNA at                                                                     training.
central and local level)
3.2) Financing o f equipment  LJSrSl1.5million to              jam, as components 1 and 2. Government commitment to
and studies for executing     Zomplementthe training                                         the project.
agency.                       sub-componentwith the
                              purchaseo f equipment and
                              software for water users'
                              xganizations and CNA, as
                              well as to finance studies in
                              water issues.
3.3) Integrated Investment    US$11.6million for the            ntegrated Investment Plans   There will be an active
Plans                         ireparation of Integrated                                      participation by beneficiaries
                              [nvestmentPlans at the level                                   andCNA professionals.
                              )fDRandUR.
4) Project Management         IrS$2.0 million to maintain a donitoring reports.              Managerial capacity of
                              eam during the 5 years o f       Gnancial Reports. Audits.     executing agencies.
4.1) PCS                      xoject execution andto           'rocurement Reviews.
4.2) Project Monitoring and   )peratethe M&E system.

Evaluation System                                              :x post evaluation.




                                                          - 25 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                        MEXICO: Integrated Irrigation Modernization Project

The IntegratedIrrigation ModernizationProject (PMIR) would promote the adoption o f a new model to
improve the competitiveness o f irrigated agriculture andthe efficiency o f irrigation water use, inboth
Irrigation Districts (Distritos deRiego, DR) and Irrigation Units(Unidades de Riego, UR).This new
model would develop partnerships between the public andprivate sectors as well as effective institutional
collaboration within the public sector, while at the same time strengthening a demand-drivenapproach to
investment decisions and financing. Project activities would include: (i)   themodernizationofexisting
irrigation infrastructure to promote a more efficient use o f irrigation water; (ii)increased productivity of
irrigatedagriculture and diversification into high-value crops; (iii) institutional strengthening ofboth
executing agencies and water users' organizations to enhance the latter participationinthe O&M o f
irrigation infrastructure as well as ininvestment decisions andto consolidate the transfer of irrigation
infrastructure to water users; and(iv) establishment o f a comprehensive monitoringand evaluation system.

Project investments are expectedto be demand driven, with decisions regardinginvestment projects to be
financed andinvestment priorities being made by water users' associations, with the assistanceof CNA and
SAGARPA, within the framework of the Integrated Irrigation InvestmentPlans (IIIPs) that would be
prepared, with active beneficiary participation, ineacho f the o f the IrrigationDistricts and IrrigationUnits
inwhichproject activities wouldbeimplemented.IIIPs aimat ensuringthat bothwater use efficiency and
agricultural productivity issuesare addressedinan integratedfashion. Investment would be financed
through a matching grant systemunder which beneficiaries would contribute up-front about 50 percent of
sub-project cost. Additionally, ceilings would be definedfor the grant-financing that would be providedin
the various investmentcategories financed underthe project. The specific ceilings wouldbe establishedin
the Project Operational Manual.
By Component:

Project Component 1
and Irrigation Units  - US$406.00
                        -Modernizationand    Rehabilitationof Irrigation infrastructure in Irrigation Districts
                                  million
The project would finance demand-driveninvestment sub-projects aimedat improvingthe efficiency o f
water distribution to rehabilitate and modernize irrigation infrastructure as well as to improve conservation
andmaintenancemachinery andequipmentwithinthe framework o fIIIPs. The demand-driven investment
proposals would be financed on the basis o f a matching-grant system, although investment inthose DRthat
have not beentransferredyet to water users would be fully financedby CNA. Duringthe first year o f the
project, while the IIIPs are beingprepared, selectedsub-projects would be approved on the individual
merits, provided they are within the framework of the existingAction Plans prepared by CNA. The final
objective o f this component would be to promote a more efficient use of irrigation water.

Beneficiaries: approximately 63,000 irrigation farmers (42,000 inDR and21,000 inUR)which will be
cultivating about 360,000 hectaresunder irrigation (260,000 hectares in DR and 100,000 hectares inUR).

Eligibleinvestments:technically andeconomically viable proposals for the rehabilitation andmodernization
of off-farm irrigation infrastructure submittedby WUs, including repairs or upgrading o f main canals,
pumpingstations, maincanal lining,installation oftubes andpipes, maindrainage networks, improvement
o f internal roads.

Project Component 2-Diversification and Intensification of irrigated Agricultural Production US$87.00
                                                                                                 -
million
The project would support demand-driven investments subprojects prepared by water users inirrigation

districts (DR) and irrigation units (UR), within the framework o f IIIPs, and presentedto their respective
local project authorities for financing. Underthis component, the project, through CNA would provide
technical and financial assistance to beneficiaries to improve on-farm irrigation systems and water use
efficiency, but at the same time, through an agreementwith SAGARPA, project beneficiaries would receive
financial support andtechnical assistancefrom the ongoing government program Alianza Contigo to
increaseagricultural productivity, diversify productionand improve their marketingcapabilities.
Characteristics o f the activities under this component are as follows:

a) On-farm andi n t e r - f m irrigation infrastructure and equipmentfor intensive irrigation (US$ 60.0
million)

Investments would be financed by CNA, through a matching grants system, andwould include
modernization o f on-farm irrigation, includinghighandlow pressuresystems to facilitate intensive
agriculturalproduction; improved on-farm drainage systems; and land leveling. An estimated area of about
67,000 hectareswould be undermodem irrigation (51,000 inDR and 16,000 inUR)and some 34,900
hectareswould have improved on-farm drainage systems (mostly inDR) at the endo fproject execution,
while about 187,000 hectares are expectedto benefit from landlevelingactivities inboth DRandUR.
Beneficiaries of this sub-component are estimated at 7,400 families. Incertain cases of non-transferred
irrigation districts or emergency situations investments would be canied out directly by CNA.

b) Irrigation crop technology subprojects

InadditiontotheresourcesprovidedthroughCNAunderthis sub-component,CNAwouldenterintoan
agreement with SAGARPA to ensure the coordinated implementationo fthe IIIPs. This will be achieved by
facilitating access o fproject beneficiaries to the resources that SAGARPA has available inits Agricultural
Development Program (Programus de Foment0 Agricola, PFA) withinAlianza Contigo to support efforts
to establish modem and more sophisticated irrigation systems, as well as to adopt improvedsoils and
water managementpractices. The PFA is roughly divided into 4 lines o f activity, including investment and
capital building, development of human resources, strengthening o f agro-industrial productive chains, and
technology generation and transfer. Within the first line o f activity there is a special program (MISA) that
supports the adoption o f integrated soils and water management practices, including rehabilitationand
conservation o f soil and water resources, and development o f modem irrigation systems. Through this
mechanism, the project expects to reach about 52,000 families, cultivating some 250,000 hectares, to
enable themto access some US$160 million o f the resources available within SAGARPA's programs.

Project Component 3-Training and Institutional Development US$ 30.00 million
                                                                 -
    Sub-component 3.1.     -Training   (US$4.5 millions)

Training o f water users

Objective: To strengthenwater users' associations andimprove their technical, managerial andfinancial
capabilities to administer andoperatetheir respective irrigation systems as well as participate inthe
decision makingprocessregardingPMIR investment financing.

InIrrigationDistricts. Trainingprograms financed underthe project wouldbe aimedto directors,
managers, technical and general staff of bothwater users organizations at the Module level, i.e.
(Asociuciones Civiles de Usuarios, ACUs), andDistrict Level, i.e. (Sociedades de Responsabilidad
Limitadu, SRLs), whenthey exist. The subject matter covered by the training program has been grouped
under two headings:


                                                        - 27 -

InIrrigationUnits. The trainingprogramfor IrrigationUnitswould concentrateonthoseURthat are
already organized as SRLs. Currently only 32 o f these SRLs are operating, but the number is expected to
increase at a rate o f about 30 per annum. The program would start with aparticipatory assessment to
define the training requirementsof each SRL. Nevertheless, preliminary assessmentswould indicate that
would be about three courses per UR,one covering management o f WU and two covering technical aspects
of irrigated agriculture. The training program for URwould be contracted out to the Post-graduateCollege
of Chapingo, which is expectedto train some 120 instructors who intum would train about 900 members
o f SRLS.

IntegratedInvestmentPlans(US$11.6 million)

Underthis component, the PMIRwould finance the preparation ofIntegratedInvestment Plans ineachof
the Irrigation Districts and IrrigationUnitsin which project activities would be implemented.Irrigation
Investment Plans aim at ensuringthat bothwater use efficiency and agricultural productivity issues are
addressedinan integrated fashion andwould be preparedwith the active participation o f beneficiaries.

Equipmentand Studies(US$11.5 million)

The project would finance office equipment and computers and computer software for the Executing
Agencies and provide funds for studies on selectedtopics relatedto irrigationwater use issues.

Basic Subiects, which have been defined as (i)   accounting; (ii)operation andmaintenance o f inigation
systems; (iii)modernizations o f irrigation infrastructure, both off- and o n - f m ; (iv) management o f
irrigation modules; and(v) marketingof produce. Training inthese subjectswould be carried out applying
the existingmethodology already applied by CNA. This methodology involves two stages. Duringthe first
stage, the program would train CNA staff who would act as instructors training staff o f water users'
organizations during the secondstage. Duringthe latter these instructors, could be assistedby extemal
instructors, ifnecessary. Duringthe first stage, the PMIR is expected to train about 100instructors, which
would be addedto the already existing200 instructors inCNA. Additionally, all instructors will receive
training inmanagemento firrigation systems and some 200 ofthese instructors will receive training in
irrigation technologies. Duringthe second stage, the project is expectedto train some 7,200 memberso f
water users' organizations.

Advanced Subiects. The subject matter o f these advanced subject would be defined after a participatory
assessment to be carried out ineach o f the participating water users' associations, after the training inbasic
subjects has beencompleted. Training inidentifiedadvanced subjects would be carried out by extemal
instructors from either the IMTA or the Post-graduate College o f Chapingo. Some 900 members o f the
various water users' organizations are expected to be trained under this scheme.

B.-Traininp for staff andInstitutionalStrengthening ofExecutingAgencies

Objective: To improve CNA's ability to deal with technical issues related to irrigated agriculture andto
executethe various activities to be financed under the PMIR.

Underthis component, the PMIR would finance training courses for about 1,000 staff of CNA and
SAGARPA. These courses would be provided under the existingnational training programrunby IMTA (
Programa Nacional de Capacitacibn Abierta del Instituto Mexican0 de Tecnologia del Agua, IMTA).
Some 1,000 staff are expected to be trained underthis scheme. Additionally, the project would finance the


                                                     - 28 -

participation o f about 150 staff innational seminars and events related to irrigation and water management
issues and about 30 staff ininternational events.

The project would finance 100percent o f the cost o f basic training, but only 50 percent o f the cost o f
advance training, with the difference being financed by beneficiaries. The cost o f training activities would
include training material, rental o f conference halls andequipment, daily allowance and tickets o f
participants and instructors, plus the cost o f external instructors when they are required.

GeographicalInformation System (CJS$2.0 million)

The project would contribute to upgrade and operate the existing GIS o f CNA. The upgradedversion o f the
GIS would cover the country's total irrigated area inboth DR andUR.The project would finance the
purchase o f ARCGIS software (version 8.x) that would guarantee larger flexibility and the most up to date
tools.

This would be executed intwo stages. The first stage, which would last two years, would include (a) an
assessment o f information requirements and identification o f potential users; (b) system design and
development; (c) data generation; (d) design o fmechanism to update information andmigrate data; and (e)
operation o f the GIS at the level o f priority geographical areas. The second stage would complete the GIS
development on the basis o f lessons learned during the first stage.

Consultancies, hardware and software required for the development o f the GIS would be financed unde the
GIs.

Project Component4-Project Management US$2.00 million
                                               -
A Project Coordinating System (PCS) will be established within CNA's General IrrigationInfrastructure
Sub-Division (Subdireccidn General de Infruestructuru Hidrougricolu, SGIH). Its main responsibilities
will be the coordination of the activities that willbe executedunder the project, monitoringand evaluation,
carrying out of audits, supervise the preparation o f the Integrated Investment Plans, and the preparation of
the Annual Operating Plans and the periodic reports to the Bank on project activities.




                                                      -29-

Annex 2 a. Irrigation Crop Subprojects

The Alianza Contigo is a set of programs under the responsibility of SAGARPA, by which the Federal
Government implements its agricultural development strategy.

Duringthe late 1980s andearly 1990s, the GOMimplementedanimportant set ofreforms inthe
agricultural sector including liberalization o fprices and marketing, trade reforms, andprivatizations. In
1996, as a complement to those measures, and as a result o f the signing o f the NAFTA Agreement, the
GOM launched a nationalagricultural andrural development program calledAlianza para el Campo
(PAC) directed at generating a profoundchange inthe agriculture sector through increasedcapitalization
and competitiveness. Within this framework, the program supported investments ininfrastructure,
equipment, technology andhuman resources inthe agricultural sector with the aim o f promoting improved
agricultural production andproductivity, as well as increased income o f farmers. In2002 the current
administration introduced changes inthe PACreducing the number o fprograms andimprovingthe levels
of coordination, at national, regional andstate level. InAlianza Contigo there are only seven programs
comparedto the more than twenty programs included inthe PAC.

The working scheme focuses on an integrated management o fpresent instruments o f agricultural policy and
strengthening o f federalism, based on the implementation o f the seven programs under the Alianza
"umbrella", destined to reactivate crop and livestock production, promote rural development, improve food
safety and attend some specific issues such as information systems, fisheries andcoffee. The programs
promote productive investment under a matching-grant scheme and supply o f more effective support
services (research, extension, information, training) for a wide range o f subprograms.

The comerstone o f PAC is its decentralized approach, with a delegation o f administration and
decision-making to the States. The programs offer the opportunity and the operational mechanism to
implement a decentralized, demand-driven approach to channel technical and fmancial assistance directly to
farmers. Formal agreement are signed between SAGARPA andeach state, which include Technical
Annexes describing proposed project activities andthe annual budget withthe respective financial
commitments o f the federal and state governments.

A Trust Fundhas beenestablished ineach state to channel financial resources from the federal and state
govemments to the various programs andsubprograms o f the Alianza. Definition o fpriorities o f the
various programs and sub-programs, selection o f investment proposal, and approval o f transfer o f financial
resources to beneficiaries, is the responsibility o f the Technical Committee o f the State Trust Fund(CTFE)
operating ineach State. CTFEs comprise state representatives from the various institutions involved in
rural development, the SAGARPA delegate, and producer organizations. They make decisions with the
support o f technical committees on the various subjects involved. Subsequent to the approval by the
CTFEs, the subproject proposals are forwarded to the Fideicomiso for payment to the provider of goods
and services associated with the subprojects, uponfulfillment o f their obligations.

For productive investments, beneficiaries either individually or organized ina group are responsible for
subproject implementation, consistent with a highlyparticipatory demand-driven approach to subproject
identification, design andselection. Demand-driven support services (technical assistance, extension and
training) are delivered based on direct contracts from beneficiary organizations or groups to private sector
individuals or small f m s . Finally, Technology Transfer and Adaptive Researchis implementedby the
PRODUCEFoundations ineach state, who award contracts ona competitive basis to specialized
institutions, including MIFAP, State research agencies, Universities and the private sector.



                                                       - 30 -

The Alianza Contigo program for fiscal year 2003, as stated inthe Operational Rules dated April 2003, is
basedon the implementationo f 7 programs. The Programfor the Promotion o f Crops (PFA) is basically
the only one which supports activities related to irrigated agriculture. The PFA is dividedinto 4
subprograms, encompassinginvestment andcapital building, development of humanresources,
strengthening o f ago-industrial productive chains andtechnology generation andtransfer. Withinthe first
subprogram a special chapter supports integrated management practices for soils andwater (MISA).
Through MISA, support would be providedto the project for improvedmanagement, rehabilitation and
conservation of soil andwater resources, and for applying modem irrigation systems.




                                                    - 31 -

                          Annex 2 b. Main PerformanceMonitoringIndicators

  INDICATOR                                                              UNIT           COMPONEST (*)
  PerformanceIndicators
Area with rehabilitated or modern irrigation svstems inDR andUR          ha             M&R
Area with technologically advanced on-farm irrigation systems            'ha            D&I
Area benefited from productionintensification anddiversification                        D&I
(actions                                                                 Iha
IODeration andMaintenance Manuals                                        hr.            ID
humber o f DR transferred to water users associations                    hr.            ID
Development andstrengthening o f SRL                                     Nr.            ID
Investment inModernization and Rehabilitation o f Irrigation               S $          M&R
lhfrastructure inDR and UR                                               IU
Investment inintensification and diversificationo f agriculture and      tJS%           D&I
livestock production inDR andUR
Investment ininstitutional develoDment                                   US%            D&I
                                                                         Iris%
                                                                      ~~
IInvestment inDroiect management                                                        PM
                                                                                                   ~~    ~-
ILoan disbursement                                                       lusts          Project
Integrated Investment Plans                                                r.           Proiect

ProiectManagementIndicators
Progress with detailed designs o f sub-projects                          Nr.
Sub-moiects submitted for financing                                        Nr.
ISub-projects approved for financing                                       r.
Progress withconstruction o f sub-projects                                YOexecuted
Progress with design o f on-farm sustainable production plan          '   Nr.           D&I
Finishedsub-projects                                                      Nr.           M&Rand D&I
Project expenditure, by component                                         US$           Proiect




Ion-farm irrigation efficiencv                                            I%
 Increasedwater resources availability through reduced losses and         Million of
 inefficiencies                                                           cubic meters
lsavinrrs inenerw consumtion                                              lKwh
Diversification into highvalue crops bercentage o f total cultivated      %
area under irrigation)
 Crop intensity                                                           Index Nr.
  Increasedirrigated agricultural production (Value)                      IndexNr.

          D&I    Diversificationand Intensification of Irrigated Agricultural Production
          ID     Institutional Development
          PM     Project Management




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 2 c. ProjectImplementation

The Project's main objective is to assist the government inits efforts to adopt a new model to improve the
competitiveness o f irrigatedagriculture andthe efficiency of irrigation water use inboth Irrigation Districts
(Distritos de Riego, DR) and IrrigationUnits (Unidades de Riego, UR).These efforts would include the
development o fpartnershipsbetween the public andprivate sectors, as well as effective institutional
collaboration within the public sector, and the strengtheningo f a demand-drivenapproach to investment
decisions and financing.

CNA will implement the proposedproject with the collaboration of SAGARPA through the irrigation
managementplans. Two general divisions will support CNA to coordinate the project.

The Department o f Hydro-Agricultural Infrastructures (DGIH) would be the main execution unit.Its three
managementunits will be responsible for the operation o f PMIR while the the Department o f Programming
would provide the link between the Bank and Nacional Financiera (NAFINj`,the project's financial agent.

Components 1and 2 will be carried out by farmers directly, with financing sharedbypublic and private
resources. Public funds will be allocated by CNA, which will be responsible for reviewingthe proposals for
the integratedinvestment plans, and authorizing funds. The relevant programs ofthe existingAlianza
Contigo Programwould provide complementary fimdingfor the productive elements o f the proposals. As
inthe ongoingprojects, financialresourceswillbechanneledto beneficiariesthroughthe StateTrust
Funds, to which state-level governments will contribute with financial resources according to their
development priorities. Incertain cases o f non-transferred irrigation districts or emergency situations
investments would be carried out directly by CNA.

To achieve its objectives the project includes animplementationplanwhich will bepart ofthe project's
operational manual. Aside from detailed implementationprocedures, the operational manual will include
terms of reference for key consultants, standardterms o freference for the preparation o f the Integrated
Irrigation InvestmentPlans; andfmancial management andprocurement procedures.

Projectplanning

As part ofits planningprocess, CNA has defined the general outline andobjectives for sustainablewater
management inthe National Hydraulic Program2001-2006, or (Plan Nacional Hidrciulico, PNH). The
program's mainpurpose is to provide an efficient andsustainable irrigation system inthe agriculture
sector. From the PNH, regionalhydraulic programs have beenorganized for all o fthe country's 13
administrative regions. These regional programs have a detailed diagnostic o f the water resource and
irrigation sector's inparticular with outlines, strategies, and programs for the period 2002-2006. These
programs together serve as a framework for the planning strategy for the DRs, URs and irrigation
modules (Mddulos de Riego, MR).

Implementation

Actions aimed directly at assisting farmers and their organizations are related to components 1and2 of the
project: (i)Modernization andRehabilitation o f IrrigationInfrastructureinIrrigationDistricts andUnits;
and (ii)Diversification and Intensificationo f IrrigatedAgricultural Production. These components would
be implementedmainly through the Integrated Irrigation Investment Plans(IIIPs).




                                                     - 33 -

IntegratedInvestmentPlan

The integrated investment plans would be usedto define comprehensive investmentpackagesat the
District, Module or Unitlevel and would be basedon studies o f the physical aspects (with a particular
attention on the evaluation o fwater availability, soil characteristics, and their limitations), andthe
socio-economic, agronomic, environmental market andcommercialization o f each area.

The figure below shows a sequence o f activities proposed for the formulation o f the integrated investment
plans for DRs, MRs, and URs. These plans will include (i)      production, (ii)selection, (iii) prioritization, (iii)
implementationand, (iv) monitoring and evaluation processes, andare basedon the following phases:

         Diagnosis of the irrigation sector, structural and improvementproposals together with a diagnostic
         o f the infrastructure o f each district and/ or module, andtheir potential for development.
         A regional framework ofcompetitiveness andcrop altematives, markets,and strategic alliances,
         together with a national framework of agricultural competitiveness inirrigation andmarket crops.
         Infrastructure improvement plans with a program o f agricultural development andproductive
         pattems.
         Analysis, compatibilities andphysicalrequirement.
         Integrated investment plan for the district and /or the region.


The production plano f the district, module or irrigation units, should be visue,.zed as a specific marketing
program; this program shouldconsider the behavior of the local, regional, national and export markets, as
well as the requirementsestablishedfor eachproduct that will be commercialized (standards, packing,
conservation, etc). The plans will be designedwith dynamic criteria, and adjustments and revision
procedures, inthe case that actions are not carried out within the programmeddeadline, or inthe case o f
modifications inthe focus and objectives duringproject execution.

Technical assistance needsfor producers will be determinedonce the production systemand, the
agricultural and irrigation technology to be implemented have been defined. Also, a program for capacity
buildingwill be implemented as a function o fthe situationo feachuser's association, Asociacibn Civiles
de Usuarios (ACU), its technical schemes, capacity, resources, and equipment.




                                                       - 34 -

IntegratedIrrigationManagementPlans Cycle

                                     u      Strengths              framework of
                                                                   agricultural
                                          Opportunities,           competitivenessin
                                          Challenges and           irrigationand
        -----__--
           1  performance,
              structural needs and
              improvement
              proposals                   risks                    marketfor crops
              ~




                                                            Regionalframework of

          of each district and/ or module,                  competitivenessandcrop

          andits development potential                      altematives,markets,and
                                                            strategic alliances




               ~~


                 Proposalof the action   -
                 plansinorder to
                 improveinfrastructure                    developmentand
                 andoperations                            productive cropping
                                                          patterns




                     Re-structureofthe

                     productiveagriculture




                                                    Execution, follow up andevaluationofthe
                                                    investmentplan                          h



                                                 - 35 -

OperationalFlow

The project would make use of the existing operational mechanismsusedby the four ongoing Alianza
Programs, managedby the CNA and foreseen inthe Ruleso f Operationfor Hydro-Agricultural
Infrastructure Programs, publishedannually inthe Official Gazette, where the following appear: the Legal
Framework, the general objectives and criteria for the application o f resources, monitoring andevaluation,
their dissemination, the institutionalresponsibilities ofthe various participants, andfor eachProgram, its
objective, the beneficiary population, the components, the eligibility requirements and criteria, and the
technical specifications.

The Programs are: (i)  Programfor the Rehabilitationand Modernization o f IrrigationDistricts; (ii)     Farm
Development Program; (iii)    Program for the Efficient Use o fWater andPower; and(iv) Program for the
Full Use of Hydro-Agricultural Infrastructure. The f r s t two are aimed at the Districts and the secondtwo
at Irrigation Units.

Duringthe process oftransferringthe operation ofIrrigation Districts (the Unitswere always operatedby
the users themselves), a Concession Title was signed for the utilization o fhydro-agricultural infrastructure
works for eachmodule ineachDistrict. On the date o fwhenthe Concession Contract was signed, each
Module received standardizedInstruction for the Decentralized Operation, Conservation and
Administration o fthe corresponding Module. These standardized Instructions still constitute the basis for
the operation and administration of eachWU. The legalbasis for the participationofW U s inthe projects
i s focused on these concessioncontracts and on the water use rights o f eachmodule ineachIrrigation
District and Unit,all inaccordance with Mexico's Water Law.

The decentralization o fproceduresinclude a "Convenio de Concertaci6n" (Coordination Agreement)
between ANUR (National Association o f Irrigation Users) and CNA, inwhich it is agreedthat, for
infrastructure improvement investments, CNA would provide 50 percent o f the necessaryresources and
users and state governments the remaining 50 percent. Inthis way, the users and States would come to
have a reasonableimportance inthe process and, to make investments, eachyear CNA signs an Agreement
with each State, andthis Agreement contains two Annexes: the TechnicalAnnex andthe Implementation
Annex.

The ImplementationAnnex explains the entire legalbasis o f the process, the actions to be taken, the
financial resourcesandthe execution modalities, while the Technical Annex defines the background, the
objectives o fthe Agreement, the overall support components, the participation o f eachinterlocutor, the
eligibility requirements and criteria, the operational mechanisms, the schedule o f implementation, andthe
monitoring and evaluation indicators. The Borrower, through CNA, will enter into an agreement (Carta de
Compromiso) with eachWU Managed On-farm Irrigation Subproject, under terms and conditions
substantially similar to those of the model form contained inthe Operational Manual (the Subproject
Implementation Agreements).

Based on already established criteria, available resourcesare dividedannually among the States. There are
also pre-established criteria inthe Operational Ruleswhich determine the priorities among the Districts and
among the Units o f each state. Evenconsidering that these are Programs on demand and dependent on
users' contributions, these criteria are necessary inorder to choose among equally demandedProjects.

The Operational Rules criteria for prioritization: (i) efficiency inwater use; (ii)profitable projects; (iii)
numberof beneficiaries; (iv) availability ofcounterpart fundingfrom usersand states; (v) areabenefited;


                                                      - 36 -

(vi) regionalpoverty indices or social exclusion; (vii) technical restrictions such as water shortage.

Based on a PMIR Communication and Dissemination Plan, W U s will be urgedto prepare their own IIIP,
according to the previously describedflowchart. Since the Operational Rules already promoted
macro-allocations o f resources, and considering that the W U s already have their InvestmentPlans ready
and agreed, the PMIReffective operation includes the following steps:

a) Beneficiaries, through their W U s (ACUs or SRLs), prioritize projects under their IIIPs, prepare their
requests with the aid o f CNA or private technical assistance, and sendthem to the respective FOFAEs
(trust funds) ineach state;

b) Approved and eligible projects are grouped bythe regionalor state CNA, validated according to
operational rules andresubmittedto the Hydro-Agricultural Sub-committee o f the FOFAE.

c) The Hydro-Agricultural Sub-committee receives the information and presents it to the FOFAE
Technical Committee, which authorizesthe signing o f the contract and sends it to the Hydro-Agricultural
Sub-committee for it to inform the beneficiary about the authorization to sign the contract.




                                                   - 37 -

                                            Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs
                           MEXICO: Integrated Irrigation Modernization Project




 Diversificationand Intensificationof IrrigatedAgricultural
 Production
 InstitutionalDevelopment
 Project Management
 Total Baseline Cost
  Physical Contingencies




                                                                                                    Local               Foreign                   Total
                         Project Cost By Category                                               US $million           US $million             US $million
 Goods                                                                                                 9.70                   23.10                     32.80
 Works                                                                                               252.60                  213.00                   465.60
 Services                                                                                             17.20                      4.60                   21.80
 Training                                                                                              4.80                      0.00                     4.80
I                                                         Total Project Costs1                       284.30                  240.70                    525.00
                                                                      Front-endfee                                               3.00                     3.00
                                                 Total Financing Required                            284.30                  243.70                    528.00

   1Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) andthe total project cost, net of taxes, is 528.03 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 57.39% of
   totalproject cost netoftaxes.




                                                                      - 38 -

                               Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
                        MEXICO: Integrated IrrigationModernization Project




Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The project would provide technical and financial assistanceto some 110,000 small irrigation farmers,
mostly small producers, with an average farm size o f about 5 ha, to improve their competitiveness inan
increasingly open economy. The PMIRwouldprovide financial resources to implement a program aimed
at: (i)the rehabilitation of off-farmirrigationinfrastructure andimprovement oftheir operation and
maintenance; (ii) introduction o fmodemirrigationtechnologies at the farm level andpromote
                   the
intensificationo fproduction; and(iii)   provision of adequatetechnical assistanceto irrigation producers.
Additionally, the project would provide training to nearly 10,000 members o fwater users' organizations
andtheir leaders. The project activities wouldbe implemented nationwidebutdeterminedbybeneficiaries
demands. The technical andeconomic viability o f investmentproposals submittedfor'financingby
beneficiaries and the definition o f investmentpriorities would be done applying simple and easily verifiable
criteria. Inany case, no investment proposal with an ERRo f less than 12% would be eligible for financing
underthe project.

Economic benefits o f the project would be the result o f increased agricultural production andfarmers'
income. From an analysis o f a sample o f farm models it can be concluded that small commercial farmers
would see a significant increaseintheir on-farm income as a result o fproductive investmentfinanced under
the project.
The project would promote also private sector participation inthe provision o f production support services,
particularly technical assistanceto producers, which is expected to increasethe impact o f project-fmanced
on-farm investments.
Sustainability o fproject benefits is expectedto be high, giventhat the increaseinphysical assets would be
complemented with improvements insocial and humancapital through training, technical assistance,
organization andbetter access to project financial, marketing andtechnological services. Nearly 94% o f
project resources are likely to be channeledto productive investment demandedby beneficiaries, while an
additional 5% would be allocated to technical assistanceand training o f the target population. The
combination of farmers participationinthe investment decision-making process andthe assistance to
decentralizedmanagement andadministration o fproject activities is expected to increasethe effectiveness


                                                      - 39 -

andefficiency o fpublic expenditure.

Total project cost, including farmers' contribution, has been estimated at about US$528 million. The World
Bank loan would be US$300million.

Main Assumptions:
Economic Analysis

Economic return calculations includedthe cost o f incremental on-farm productive investment and recurrent
expenditure for the adoption o f sustainable agricultural production systems promotedunder the project.
The analysis of a small sample o f subprojects that are likely to be presentedby groups o f irrigation farmers
indicated that economic returns on most investment will be relatively high (Le. >20%). The exception being
those models which depict investment intechnologically advanced irrigation equipment, but with wheat or
maize andbeans as their main crops; these are not economically viable.

Given the limitations that a demand-driven project presents for an overall economic analysis, a partial rate
of return of the project has been estimated by extrapolating the results of the sample o f models, but
excluding those models with an ERRof less than 12%, as they would not be eligible for project financing
under the agreed eligibility criteria. The purpose o f such an exercise is to give indication o f the order o f
magnitude o f the economic returns that can be expected from the proposed project. Under those
assumptions, the project's ERRhas been estimated at 20.1%.


PricingAssumptions: Price contingencies were excluded andbase costs plus physical contingencies less
taxes were used for the IEREL Given the policy reforms andthe opening o f the economy that have been
takingplace since the early 1990s,the rate o f exchange o fthe MexicanPeso is currently determined inthe
open market andtrade restrictions have been gradually lowered and domestic prices tend to correspond
much closer to border economic values. For the purposes o f economic analysis, border prices were
estimated for main tradable produced by the project, based on USDA projections. While the project would
increase on-farm and off-farm employment inthe priority areas, unemployment andunder-employment
would not be eliminated. Therefore, shadow prices for unskilled labor were estimated at 80% o f the market
wage rate, while for skilled labor, the market rate was assumed to reflect its opportunity cost.




                                                     - 40 -

Illustrative Farm




Model 1                    20.0         Maize, Beans              9.2             11.5            18.5   51.0    11
Model2                     6.0                Wheat               1.6              4.4            4.6    24.0     0
Model 3                    35.0               Cotton            24.5              33.1            39.5   18.0  >IO0
Model4                     3.0            Cauliflower             1.7              6.2            7.3    37.0  >IO0

Drip irriaation
Model 1 *                  10.0               Onions            11.3              24.5            29.5   45.0  91.0
Model 2 *                  30.0           Tomatoes,             39.0             150.9          180.3    56.5  >IO0
                                          Cucumbers
Model 3                    22.0            Tomatoes             24.1              91.I          111.4    58.6  >IO0

Central Pivot
Model 1                    40.0              Pastures         36182               21.8            29.1   22.0  47.0


of canals
Model 1                    400                Wheat            190.7              155.4         199.5     14.0 29.0
Model 2                    242                  Maize          204.9              132.5         176.6    22.0  45.0
Model 3                    150                  Maize           69.2               76.0         889.0     30.0 60.0
Model4                     214                  Maize          373.1              38.3          106.5    22.0  45.0

Off-farm Low
pressure DiDes
Model 1                     80               Pastures           73.2               31.2           52.4    21.0 44.0
Model 2                    389                Wheat            344.8              206.8         274.4     15.0 32.0
Model 3                    70               Sorghum             50.7              11.2            22.4   28.0  56.0

Total benefits would have to decrease by 24.5% or total costs increaseby 32.5% for the ERRto decline to
12%, i.e. the opportunity cost o f capital.

FinancialAnalysis
The financial analysis was carried out, along the lines followed for the economic analysis, to assess the
financial viability o f a sample o f productive investments most likely to be demanded by irrigation farmers.
The financial viability o f these investments was analyzed within the framework o f the most common
productionsystems used by irrigation farmers usingthe same set of farm models prepared for the economic
analysis. As i s to be expected, giventhe level o f subsidyprovidedto the various off- andon-farm
investments underthe project, the selectedfarm model showed very highfinancial rates o freturn. Increases
infarmers' income, as aresult ofproject-financed on-farm investment, rangedfrom about 10%to more



                                                      -41 -

than 60% at full development. Input and output prices were assumed constant, as was the real exchange
rate, -throughout the 20 year time horizonusedinthe financial analysis. The discount rate was
assumed to b e 12 %. Under the same assumptions made for the economic analysis, the project's
FRRhas been estimated at -50.5%. Forthis FRRto come downto 12%, benefits wouldhave to
decline by 70.1% or costs would have to increase by 41.2%

FiscalImpact
The project will be implemented by CNA, which has a total budget for 2003 o f about US$ 1.1 billion
equivalent at the federal level. The total cost o f the PMIRProject, excluding farmers' contribution, is
estimated at about US$440million, or about US$@ millionper annum. The proposed project would
support ongoing CNA programs and would operate within the existing budget allocation o f CNA, and
would not generate additional budgetary financial requirements for the Federal Government beyond the
close to US$80 millionper annum inmatching-grants already foreseen inCNA's budget for these
programs. The subsidies that Government provides under its current PROCAMPOprogram, which would
benefit some o f the project beneficiaries, has been estimated at about another US$40millionper annum,
butthese would come out the normalbudget o f SAGARPA andare not a direct consequence o fproject
activities.

For the purpose o f estimating total project cost, it has been assumed conservatively that the 2003 level o f
budgetary resources will be kept throughout the project life, Le., that there will be no budget increases. The
project's incremental operating costs are less than 1%o f total costs, while productive investment and
expenditure directly benefiting small farmers (Le., technical assistance andtraining) account for 99% o f
total project cost. Incremental tax revenues accrued to the Federal Government as a result o f project
activities would negligible as sales o f goods and services inthe agricultural sector are exempt from the
Value Added Tax (VAT). Income tax revenues from incremental profitability o f on-farm production would
not have much impact on the budgetary situation given both the relatively small number o f beneficiaries
andthe presence o f a substantialnumber o f samll farmers amongbeneficiaries. Consequently, while the
fiscal impact o f the project would be negative, it would remain within the limits o f current CNA activities.




                                         Economic                     Financial
                                         (%I
        Base                             20.1                         50.5
                                        I                            I
        Sensitivity Analysis
                   Benefits
        Decrease by 10%                  16.8                         37.4
        Decrease by 20%                  13.5                         27.6
                    costs
        Increase by 10%                  17.1                         38.5
        Increase bv 20%                  14.6                         30.6

        Benefits decrease by 10%;        14.1                         29.2
        costs increase by 10%




                                                       - 4 2 -

                                 Annex 5: FinancialSummary
                      MEXICO: integratedirrigationModernizationProject
                                       Years Ending

                         1IYear1   1 Year2    1  IMPLEMENTATlONPERIOD
                                                 Year3  I Year4   I Year5  IYear6   1Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs          133.7       105.6      105.6     105.6     88.0     0.0      0.0
 RecurrentCosts                0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         133.7       105.6      105.6     105.6     88.0     0.0      0.0
             Front-endfee      3.O        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Financing             136.7       105.6      105.6     105.6     88.0     0.0      0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                   76.0       60.0       60.0      60.0     50.0    0.0       0.0
   Government                 57.7       45.6       45.6      45.6     38.0    0.0       0.0
      Central                 57.7       45.6       45.6      45.6     38.0    0.0       0.0
      Provincial               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     133.7       105.6      105.6     105.6     88.0    0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:




                                             -43-

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                      MEXICO: IntegratedIrrigation ModernizationProject

Procurement
Procurement o f Goods andWorks

Procurement o f works and goods financed by the Bank under the project shall be carried out inaccordance
with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) andthe following provisions o f Section Io f
this Annex.

Grouping o f contracts: To the extend practicable contracts for goods andworks shall be grouped inbid
packages estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more each for goods and US$10,000,000 equivalent
or more each for works.

Notification and advertising: The General Procurement Notice to be published in the Development
Business, shall be updated annually for outstanding procurement. All invitation to bid shall be published in
the "Diario Ojkial de la Federacidn" and in COMPRANET.              In addition, invitation to bid for each
contract estimated to cost US$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in the Development
Business in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 o f the
Guidelines. To obtain expressions o f interest for large consultant assignments (contracts expected to cost
more than US$200,000 equivalent) a specific procurement notice shall be also published in Development
Business.

Procurement plan: Considering that the proposed project will be implemented on a demand-driven basis it
is unknownthe number o f activities to be implemented inany given year, for which is impractical to make
decisions on procurement methods or the design o f procurement packages before Negotiations. Therefore, a
covenant in the Legal Documents will call for a Procurement Plan that the borrower shall present to the
Bank for review and approval in November o f each year. Those plans will cover decisions on the
assignment o f different procurement methods andthe design o f the procurement packages for the following
year. These plans will be subject to prior-review by the Bank before any procurement action inthe plan is
implemented.

Section III-Procurement Responsibilities andCapacity

A procurement capacity assessment for the project was carriedout by a Bank LeadProcurement Specialist,
LCOPR, and approved by the RPA. The National Development Bank (Nacional Financiera-NAFIN), one
of the three financial intermediary institutions o f the Mexican Government will be responsible through its
Special Financing Unit for: (i) reviewing all procurement procedures and bid evaluation reports submitted
by CNA, and (ii)    maintaining all the corresponding records. NAFIN's performance under previous project
was satisfactory. The Bank's Implementation Unit inMexico will provide procurement advice to CNA and
NAFINasrequired andcarry out the Bank's fiduciary fimctions delegatedto it.

To assess CNA`s procurement capabilities and possible risk on the implementation o f the proposed project,
a Bank's mission visited states offices and several offices inMexico City. The assessment determined that
CNA has ample experience in Bank operation given that they have adequately executed Bank's projects
since its institution.




                                                      - 44 -

CNA through its State Delegations will carry out all procurement activities which it is responsible. To
ensure CNA's staff knowledge o f Bank procurement Guidelines and procedures, several procurement
seminars were given by the Mexico Resident Mission during the implementation o f previous projects, most
of them from the CNA Regional offices. For the transferred districts, W U s will carry out the procurement.
I t was agreed, and should be confirmed duringNegotiations that the districts will follow Bank Procurement
Guidelines and procedures. Duringproject preparation, a workshop with representatives o f the transferred
districts was held inCuernavaca to discuss technical specifications for the heavy machinery.

Duringproject preparation, NAFINand CNA have expressed their commitment to adhere to competitive
selection and transparency in all activities. Based on the above, procurement risk for the project is rated as
"average".

Section IV: Procurement Monitoring.

1.       CNA will prepare annually a Procurement Plan satisfactory to the Bank and establish procedures
for monitoring project execution and impact, procurement implementation, including monitoring o f
contracts. NAFINwill maintain detailed records o f procurement activities.

Review by the Bank. The proposed threshold for prior review by the Bank are based on the procurement
assessment of the project executing agency and are summarized inTable B. In addition to this review o f
individual procurement actions, the annual procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by the Bank,
as well as procurement audits to be carried out during the life o f the project.

Frequency o f Procurement Supervision. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) the post-review
mission for the project shall be conducted every 12 months and shall be cover not less than 1 in 20
contracts signed.

 Procurement methods (Table A)

The methods to be used for the procurement describe below, and the estimated amounts for each method,
are summarized inTable A. The threshold contract values for the use o f each method are fixed inTable B.

Procurement o f Works

Works procured under this project would include construction or rehabilitation o f pumping stations, water
channels, water intakes, drainages, workshops, offices, and warehouses totaling US$597.75 million
equivaleni o f which CNA will implement US$358.50 and the remaining US$239.25 will be implemented
by the beneficiaries. Major contracts for these work will be procured following International Competitive
Biddingprocedures (ICB), using Bank Standard BiddingDocuments (SBDs). Contracts estimated to cost
less than US$10,000,000 million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount o f US$150 million
equivalent, may be procured using National Competitive Biddingprocedures (NCB) and agreed Standard
BiddingDocuments. Small works, estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, upto an
aggregated amount o f US$120.0 million equivalent may be procured through price comparison received in
response to a written invitation from at least three suppliers. The written invitation will include a detailed
description o f the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, and a basic contract
form acceptable to the Bank.




                                                    -45-

  Procurement o f Goods

 Goods procured under this project will include heavy machinery, tools, computers, and furniture, totaling
 US$65.55 million equivalent of which CNA will purchase an equivalent o f US$21.80 million. Major
 contracts for these goods will be procured following Intemational Competitive Biddingprocedures (ICB),
 using Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000
 million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregatedamount o fUS$4.0 million equivalent, may be procured
 usingNationalCompetitiveBiddingprocedures (NCB) andagreedStandardBiddingDocuments. Contracts
 for goods that cannot be grouped into large bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregatedamount o f US$1.O million equivalent, may be procuredusing
 shopping (National or Intemational) procedures based on a request form for quotations acceptable to the
 Bank.

 Commercial Practices

 Goods for on-farm irrigation subprojects and off-farm irrigation subprojects implemented by W U s
 estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with
 commercial practices o f the WU, acceptable to the Bank, and described inthe Operational Manual.
                             Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                              (US$ millionequivalent)


                                                                Procurement Method'
     Expenditure Category                     ICB                   NCB              Othe:             N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                                      0.00                 450.50              0.00             0.00         450.50
                                             (0.00)                (251.60)           (0.00)           (0.00)       (251.60)
2. Goods                                      0.00                   5.60             39.80              0.00         45.40
                                             (0.00)                 (4.40)           (19.80)           (0.00)        (24.20)
3. Services                                   0.00                   0.00             29.10              0.00         29.10
                                             (0.00)                 (0.00)           (24.20)           (0.00)        (24.20)
4. Miscellaneous                              0.00                   0.00              0.00              0.00          0.00
                                             (0.00)                 (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                              0.00                   0.00              3.00              0.00          3.00
                                             (0.00)                 (0.00)            (3.00)            (0.00)        (3.00)
   Total                                      0.00                  456.10            71.90              0.00        528.00
                                             (0.00)                (256.00)          (47.00)            (0.00)       (303.00)


 z' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
    contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
   costs related to managingthe project.




                                                          -46-

Consultant Services

Selection Planning
A planfor the selection o f consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, contract packaging, and
applicable selection criteria andprocedures, shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior
to the issuance to consultants o f any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 12 months
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval. Selection o f all consultants' services shall be undertaken inaccordance with such selection
plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have beenapproved by the Bank. Consultant services shall be
procured in accordance with Guidelines for the use o f Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and the
Bank as Executing Agency (January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999, and M a y 2002) and
the following provisions o f Section I1 o f this Annex. Consultant services will be contracted under this
project in the following areas o f expertise: training, design, construction supervision, institutional
development studies and preparation o f IIIPs. These services are estimated to cost US29.0 million
equivalent o f which the Bank would finance an estimatedUS24.2 million equivalent.

Firms: All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS procedures except for small contracts
estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or less that would be procured using SFB or least cost selection,
upto anaggregate amount o fUS$4.6 million.

Individuals: specialized advisory services would be provided by individuals consultants selected by
comparison o f qualifications o f at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount o f US$3.0 million.

For all consultants' services to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the short list of
consultants, estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national
consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

                        Table A I: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)




 s
''Including contingencies

            Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a FixedBudget
                  LCS = Least-CostSelection
                 CQ = Selection Basedon Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selectionof individualconsultants (per Section V of ConsultantsGuidelines),Commercial Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figuresin parentheses are the amountsto befinanced by the Bank Loan.




                                                            - 47 -

The prior review arrangements are presented inTable B.

                  Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review'

                                 ContractValue                                         Contracts Subject to
                                   Threshold                  Procurement                  Prior Review
 ExpenditureCategory             (US$thousands)                  Method                    (US$ millions)
1.Works                            >10,000,000                     ICB                           All
                                   <10,000,000                    NCB                     Above 3,000,000
                                                            Shoppingat least 3         Firsttwo contractsper
                                                                contractors                     state
2. Goods                            >500,000                       ICB
                                    <500,000                      NCB
                                    <50,000                 Shoppingat least 3
                                                                suppliers
3. Services                         >100,000                                                     All
Firms                       I
Individual                          >100,000                      QCBS                           All
                                    >100,000                    SFBLCS                         TORS

                                    >50,000              Consultant Qualifications               All

                                     <50,000             Consultant Qualifications             TORS

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$lOO million equivalent
                        Overall Procurement RiskAssessment: Average
      Frequencyofprocurementsupervision missionsproposed:            One every 12months
                                                                     (includes specialprocurementsupervisionfor
                                                                     post-review/audits)
Non-ConsultantServices

Non consultant services include the procurement of a Geographic Information System and facilities for
workshops and air tickets. The Standard Bidding Document for Non-consultant Services agreed with
Secretariat of Public Function andthe Bank will be usedto these procurement. It is estimatedthat the total
cost of these procurementcontracts will be US$2.14 million equivalent.




                                                 - 4 8 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                       MEXICO: IntegratedIrrigationModernization Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
CountryIssues

The Mexico Country Financial Accountability Assessment, nearly completed, covers public
financial accountability arrangements only at the federal level, including a FM risk assessment
section. Based on the diagnostic work carried out to date, the team is of the opinion that the
country has adequate public FM capacity and reliable information systems, and that there is a
considerable degree o f external transparency. However, the mere volume of transactions calls for
expediting and incorporating a more effcientleffective approach to the administrative aspects of
public FM, including accounting and financial reporting, and for making internal and external
audit functions more systematic and risk-based. The CFAA report will offer detailed analysis,
conclusions and recommendations on these areas.

Strengths andWeaknesses

Strengths. The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project financial management
system are the following: (i) has experience implementingBank financed project and is staffed with
                               CNA
trained and experienced professionals; (ii) implementationwill be supported by NAFIN,which also
                                           project
has ample experience inBank financed projects; (iii)   existing CNA's financial management arrangements
are fully operational for both, CNA's current activities and Bank projects under implementation; (iv) CNA
is annually audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank -private firms- and there are no outstanding audit
reports; and(v) CNA's accounting polices and procedures are acceptable to the Bank.

Weaknesses. The major weaknesses observed are the following: (i)although CNA is up-grading its
financial management system, it is not able to produce Fh4Rs yet; (ii)     although financial management
policies and procedures are acceptable to the Bank; and (iii)highdegree of decentralization andthe needof
strong coordination between CNA, the state committees implementing the project, the general auditor
Secretaria de la Funcibn Pziblica -SFP-     and project auditors to carry out annual audits are additional
factors that could affect project implementation. The action plan and the risk mitigation measures (both
includedinthe financial managementassessmentreport) will address majorweaknesses.

Implementingentity

The project's executing agency will be CNA CNA will be fully responsible o f project implementation and
coordinate with SAGARF'A on specific activities, which will consist in non-eligible actions to support
project implementation. SAGARPA contributions to project objectives through Alianza Programs would
not be financed by the loan. CNA would have the main responsibility over the execution o f the project.
Project investments are expected to be demand driven, with decisions regarding investment projects to be
financed and investment priorities beingmade by WUs, with the assistanceo f CNA and SAGARPA, within
the framework o f the IPSthat would be prepared, with active beneficiary participation, ineach of the of the
higationDistricts andUnits inwhich project activities would be implemented.




                                                   -49-

Flow ofFunds

Bankfunds would be disbursedto a Special Account (SA), which wouldbe establishedin U S dollars at the
Mexican Central Bank (Banco de Mhico). CNA's standard budget for this project will be annually
allocated and executed via a bank account in local currency established at a commercial bank. The
National Treasury (TESOFE) will transfer funds to CNA to finance all project expenditures at 100%. The
risk o f timely availability o f counterpart funds is non-existent but CNA is responsible to ensure that
Secretaria deHacienda y Crddito Pziblico (SHCP) allocates funds to this project.

CNA will implement the project process all payments and provide NAFIN (Nacional Fianciera), the
Project's financial agent, all agreed supporting documentation. NAFIN would manage the SA and be
responsible to reimburse TESOFE (via transfers from the S A to TESOFE's bank account up to
agreed-eligible percentages). As inthe ongoing projects, financial resources would be channeled from CNA
to beneficiaries through the State Trust Funds (Fideicomisos) o f the Alianza Program, to which State-level
govemments and beneficiaries would contribute financial resources according to their development
priorities.

              FLOWOFFUNDSAND FINANCIALINFORMATION


             n                                                                          n

                                     6 REPORTS- SOE for funds flow (including
                                       FMRs and audits)
AUT'HOREATION
                                  US                          ORDER
                                                                             NAFIN




                                                                                                        REPORTS
                                                                                                        (including
               REPLENISHMENT
                           v               SPECIAL
                                          ACCOUNT                                                   5

                                         (inUSdollar)

                    US%                                                                                 FMRs,SOEs
                                 10                                                                     md audits)
                                                     USSI 9                                            I




                                                                                                 1 13m,
                                        REIMBURSEMENT



                                                     NATIONALTREASURY
                                                          TESOFE                  Order(to
                                                                                  p rocesspayment)
                                                 I                           I
                                                                                            STATE TRUST FUNDS
                                                                                                 Fideicomisos

                                                          SUPPLIERS/
                                                         BENEFICIARIES                                  3a
                                                                                                          Mx%
                                                           PAYM ENT
                                                                                                STATE-LEVEL
                                                                                               GOVERNMENTS
                                                                                                    (Maching)




                                                       - 50 -

Staffing

A project team headed by an experienced manager (Public Accountant) and including staff from all
administrative areas o f CNA's Subdireccidn General de Administrucidn      -  SGA (accounting, treasury,
budgeting, information systems, etc.) has been established to carry out all project financial management
activities. This team will be supported by NAFIN. The project financial management team is financed
through CNA's standard budget and is already carrying out similar activities for other Bank financed
projects andfor current CNA programs.

SGA's officials have qualifications and public sector experience adequate to undertake the financial
management tasks related to this project, and will receive training on financial management for Bank
financed projects. Additionally, SGA will be closely supervised by NAFIN. The main SGA duties will be
to: (i) the project budgets, financial statements and disbursement requests; (ii)
        prepare                                                                         supervise internal
controls and efficiency in the execution o f funds; (iii)coordinate on financial management issues, with
NAFIN,SHCP, the general auditor office Secretariade laFunci6nPublica(SFP), andthe state committees
and the Bank, (v) coordinate annual project audits; and (vi) prepare and submit FMR reports to the Bank
on a quarterly basis, via NAFM.

Current staffing arrangements inNAFIN andthe SGA o f CNA are satisfactory to the Bank. The following
chart provides the position o f SGA within CNA's organizational chart. Project staff is established within
the Subdireccidn General de Infuestructuru Agricolu. Staff from both areas will coordinate project
activities.




Accounting Policies and Procedures

CNA accounting policies and procedures are acceptable to the Bank. For Bank projects currently under
implementation, CNA maintains records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with accounting
practices compatible with International Accounting Standards and in compliance with local requirements,
the operations and financial condition, including records and separate accounts. The proposed project will
be implementedusing generally the same arrangementsas inprevious projects. C N A s accounting system



                                                   - 51 -

Sistema de Informacidn Financiera SIF3, which is complemented with other systems and spreadsheets,
have the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions o f Bank financed projects currently
under implementation; and produces financial statements and reports (excluding FMRs) useful to project
management and meeting Bank's fiduciary requirements. The SIF3 system will be adjusted to produce
FMRssatisfactory to the Bank.

Existing operating regulations issued last April 7, 2003 Reglas de Operacion, Diario Ojcial provide
information required for project implementation, including financial management arrangements. The
operating regulations will be adjusted to ensure that project financial management will be in line with all
Bankrequirementsfor investment operations.

CNA will be responsible for maintaining files o f the proposed project.           A detailed description and
conclusions that demonstrate the adequacy o f the project financial management system are included in the
financial management assessment report. The financial management section o f the Project Manual will
provide details on accounting policies and procedures.

ReportingandMonitoring

There will be various forms and levels o f financial reporting. CNA and NAFIN will provide financial
reports, which sufficiently describe their project operations (including the Special Account) to the Bank.
Additional to annual financial statements, main financial management reports will be produced every six
months inthe format o f financial monitoring reports (FMRs).

Existing systems such as the SIF3 will produce the FMRs. Additionally, a project M& E system has been
designedduringproject preparation andwould bemanagedby CNA. This systemwill maintainproject data
(financial, progress and procurement). In this way a balance will be struck between the use o f existing
reporting systems and additional, program-specific arrangements, given that currently CNA is able to
produce datarelated to the financial activity within its investmentprograms brojects) but, not inthe format
o f FMRs.

NAFIN,basedon the informationprovidedbyCNA, will provide the Bankwith aperiodic progressreport
showing financial activity, physical progress, and projections. This report will be consistent with the
Bank's guidelines for FMRs.The FMRs will not form the basis of disbursement, as it is agreedthat SOEs
will provide information on the disbursements made by NAFIN and the use o f those finds by CNA. A
general format for the FMRs was agreedbetweenNAFIN,CNA andthe Bank during to loan negotiations.

The financial management section o f the project manual will include detailed information on reporting and
monitoring, including the format o f both FMRs and annual financial statements that will be prepared by
CNA These financial statementswill bethe annual audited financial statements.

Information Systems

Information should in most cases be heavily reliant on CNA's existing systems e.g. (Sistema de
Informacibn Financiera, SIF3), (Modulo de Crbdito Externo, SISDEM). This system is operational and
considered satisfactory for those Bank financed projects currently under implementation of CNA. This
systemhas the capacity to produce informationfor project management,to monitor compliance with agreed
procedures and appropriate progress toward its objectives. This system will be complemented by the
project M&Esystem developed underproposed project.



                                                      - 52 -

The SIF3 - SISDEM is linked to other CNA's systems such as the SISCON for accounting, SISPE for
budgeting, SISPAG for treasury, and are hlly operational and the financial management assessment
concluded that they are satisfactory to the Bank.

These systems currently produce all needed financial management information (excluding FMRs) e.g. (i)
statements o f expenditures, SOE; (ii) expenditures by project component, activity and investment category;
and(iii) execution.
         budget

Other procedures. The project most likely will not require other procedures, however upon request from
NAFINand subject to Bank's approval, payments may be made: (i) to a thirdparty (supplier or
                                                                          directly
consultant) for goods, works, and services; (ii)   to a procurement agent; or (iii) a commercial bank for
                                                                                     to
expenditures against a Bank Special Commitment covering a commercial bank's letter o f credit.

2. Audit Arrangements
InternalAudit
CNA's internal audit department is responsible for internal audit reviews, however no internal
auditor will be assigned specifically to the project. Each department within the SGA of CNA will
ensure that proper internal control procedures are followed.                The internal audit function i s
operational and has some degree of independence.

ExternalAudit
Annual audit reviews will be carried out according to Bank requirements (inline with the new audit policy
approved on January 27, 2003). This policy requires audited annual financial statements o f borrowers and
project implementing entities. Project will be audited on annual basis.

The annual audits will be carried out in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing, by
independent auditors (a private fm)and under Terms o f Reference acceptable to the Bank. CNA will
furnish annual audit reports to NAFIN, who will submit them to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end o f each audited year. The Bank will review those reports,
evaluate their acceptability, and provide comments and recommendations (if any). The project manual will
include a section on financial management to provide detailed information on audit requirements.

The auditors will perform interim visits throughout the year. After each visit, a memorandum o n intemal
controls or management letter will be produced, and a copy would be submitted to NAFIN, and then to the
Bank.

The table below summarizes audit requirements (as a consequence o f country characteristics The audit
report o n the Special Account is the responsibility o fNAFINas this financial agency is responsible o f SA'S
management. This audit review is carried out under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank by acceptable
auditors, an audit report o f the Special Account will be required):

             Audit report                                    Due dates
   Project Financial Statements
                                       Starting by 06/30/2005(the period covered will be from
   Special Account                     January the 1st to December 31st) on annual basis until
                                       06/30/2009.
   Management letter



                                                      - 53 -

3. DisbursementArrangements
Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook i.e.
transaction-baseddisbursement procedures. The project is not ready to use FMR-based disbursements due
to (i)project expenditures will be prefinanced by the GOM via the standard budget o f CNA; (ii)        the
inexperience o f CNA in handling projects based on FMRs; and (ii)      information systems o f NAFIN are
unable to manage FMR-based disbursements for operations with both national and subnational level
entities e.g. CNA and the state commissions (Comisiones Estatales deAgua).
 Allocation of loan proceeds(Table C)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

           ExpenditureCategoiy               1 Amount   in US$million 1         Financing Percentage        1
Consultant Services (other than for                                                      83
On-farm Irrigation Subprojects and
Off-farm Imgation Subprojects)
                                             I
WUimplementedOff-farmIrrigation                        145.00                            50
 Subprojects
 CNA implementedOff-farmIrrigation
 Subprojects
 Goods                                                 107.00                            83
 Training                                               3.70                             83
Unallocated                                            26.00

ITotal Project Costs with Bank                         300.00
 Financing
                              Front-endfee              3.03                            100.0

/Total                                       I         303.03         I                                     I

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statements o f expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for
expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the Bank's prior review. Reimbursement o f other
expenditureswould require submittalto the Bank o f full supporting documentation. SOE information will
be provided by CNA to NAFIN, who will review them and incorporate needed information in standard
forms and, will submit the SOEs to the Bank. Documents insupport o f SOEs must be maintainedby CNA
andNAFIN at least untilone year after the Bank has receivedthe audit report for the fiscal year inwhich
the last loan withdrawal was made. Such documents must be available to review by the external auditors
andBank staff at all time.

 Specialaccount:
Special Account (SA). Retroactive Financing o f U S 4 5 million was approved following Bank Bank policy.
The project will establish in the Mexican Central Bank a SA in US dollars. NAFIN will support the
project inSA management (e.g. monthly reconciliation, 1903 Bank-form submission and coordinationwith
Mexicancentral bank Banco de Mexico) and will coordinate reporting (including the incorporation o f SA'S
information inproject FMRs) and project audits (including those at subnational level). For replenishment
of the advance, NAFIN will prepare monthly (in any case, no more than quarterly) requests for
reimbursementof expendituresmade.



                                                    - 54 -

Total advances to the SA at any given time would not exceed an authorized allocation o f US$ 30,000,000.
However, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the authorized allocation shall be limited to the
amount of US$ 15,000,000 until the aggregate amount o f withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount o f all outstanding special commitments shall be equal to or exceed the amount of US$
50,000,000.

Action Plan

                                                                             P
                             Action                           Responsible                     Date
 Adjustments to allow for preparationof agreedprogress     CNA with support   Before project effectiveness.
 reports (FMRs)                                            ofNAFIN.
 Completion and adoption of the project manual (financial   CNA               Before project effectiveness.
 management section). Specialfocus will be given to (i)
 financial managementpolicies andprocedures; and (ii)
 coordination on financial management with participating
 entities e.g. state committees, SFP andNAFIN.
 Conclusion o f CNA's system adjustmentsfor FMR            CNA                Training have to start immediately
 production.                                                                  after first disbursement.
 FMR format and content agreedwith the Bank.               CNA, NAFINand



Supervision Plan

As part of the Bank's overall supervision of the project, two FM supervision missions will be conducted
during first year of project implementation reducing to one mission on yearly basis. Supervisions will
include visit to participating state committees /commissions. A Bank Financial Management Specialist will
review project annual audit reports andwill participate inthe review o fthe quarterly FMRs.




                                                     - 55 -

                             Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                    MEXICO: integrated irrigation Modernization Project


Project Schedule                                          Planned                      Actual
[Timetaken to preparethe project (months)      I       14                   I        21            I
First Bank mission(identification)                    0112312001                     0112312001
Appraisal missiondeparture                            0311512003                     1010812003
 Negotiations                                          1011512003                    1012912003
IPlanned  Dateof Effectiveness                 I      0311512004            I                      I

Prepared by:
ComisionNacional de Agua (CNA)


Preparation assistance:


Bank staff who worked on the projec included:


 Michael G. Carroll                    Sr. Natural ResourcesMgmt. Specialist/Task Team Leader
 Lea Braslavsky                        Sr. ProcurementSpecialist
 Victor Ordonez                        Financial ManagementSpecialist
 Marta Molares-Halberg                 Country Lawyer
 Jeannette Ramirez                     OperationsAnalyst
 SylvanaRiccianni                      Junior Professional
 Edgardo Floto                         Agricultural Economist (FAOICP)
 LuizNoronha                           Consultant
 Vittorio Silvestri                    Financial Analyst (FAOICP)
 Fernando Pizarro                      IrrigationEngineer(FAOICP)
 Adolfo Brizzi                         Peer Reviewer (SASRD)
 FernandoJ. Gonzalez                   Peer Reviewer (ARD)
 Diego Paysse                          Consultant




                                                - 56 -

                              Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
                     MEXICO: IntegratedIrrigation Modernization Project


A. Project Implementation Plan



B. Bank Staff Assessments



C. Other
Evaluacibnde 10s Avances en el Procesode Transferencia de la ifraestructura de Riego a -3s Usuarios y
Necesidadesde Inversibn en Infraestructura de Riego. LuisNoronha. 2001

Evaluacibnde Situacibn de Agua. Proceso de Transferencia de Distritos. LuisNoronha, Mayo 2002.

Ampliacibn del Conocimiento de las Unidades de Riego, Transferencia de la Infraestructura de Riego a 10s
Usuarios y Planes Maestros de Riego. Luis Noronha. 2002.

Study o f Devolution o fwater rights. Jorge Ortega GonzBlez, June 2002.

Evaluation o fthe Financial Sustainability o f User Associations andthe IrrigationTariff System. JuliBn
Moreno Castillo. June 2002.

Evaluation o f the Needto StrengthenIrrigation User Associations. Alberto Yuso Lopez (Local
Consultant), January 2002.

Evaluationo f the Needto strengthen Irrigation User Associations. JuanAntonio Sagardoy (International
Consultant), 2002

Preliminary Analysis o f Water Regulations. Gustavo Manriquez. February 2002.

Technical Support to a Seminar on "financing for the modernizationo f the irrigation agricultural sector"
and study ofissues inthis sector. Alberto Lopez Yuso, June 2002.

Diagnostic and Analysis o f the Activities Carried out by SAGARPA inRelationto the Tecnification
Process inDistricts and Irrigation Units.Jaime Matus Gardea (local consultant). January 2002.

Diagnostic andAnalysis o f the Activities Carried out by SAGARPA in Relationto the Tecnification
ProcessinDistricts andIrrigation Units.Carlos Guillermo Furche (international Consultant). February
2002.

Evaluationo f the Advances inthe Project o f Transference o f IrrigationInfrastructureto Users and
InvestmentsNeeds inIrrigationInfrastructure. Jose L.Trava. February 2002.

EnvironmentalAssessment, Julieta Pisanty Levy, 2003



                                                    - 57 -

Esquemade Seguimiento Financier0 Contable del Proyecto Programa de ModemizacionIntegral del Riego
(PMIR). Eduardo Vera Laguna. Abril, 2003.

Integracion del Informe General del Proyecto. Octavio del Conde. Abril2003.

Master Plans for IrrigationUnits, N o Bolaiios. Francisco Mojarro Davila. 2003.

Master Plans for IrrigationDistricts inMichoacan. Marco Alfred0 Murillo Ruiz. 2003

Master Plans inIrrigationDistrict 041. JosB L. Trava Manzanilla. 2003.

Master Plans inIrrigationDistrict 011. Victor J. Del Razo. 2003.

*Including electronic files




                                                  - 58 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                 MEXICO: Integrated Irrigation Modernization Project
                                                               27-Oct-2003
                                                                                                                          Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                                   and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO68290     2004 E-Businessfor Small BusinessDevpt.Pr.            58.40       0.00                   0.00     0.00   58.40        0.00       0.00
PO59161     2003 GEF MX-CiimateMeasuresin Transport                0.00       0.00                   5.80     0.00     5.99       1.66       0.00
PO70108     2003 MX Savings8 CreditSector Strengthening           64.60       0.00                   0.00     0.00   57.75        10.55      0.00
PO60686     2003 MX MunicipalDev in RuralAreas                   400.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00   396.00      136.00      0.00
PO74539     2003 MX ProgrammaticEnvSAL                           202.02       0.00                   0.00     0.00   101.01      98.99       0.00
PO74655     2003 MX Rural FinanceDevelopStructAdj Loan           505.06       0.00                   0.00     0.00   505.06       0.00       0.00
PO60577     2002 MX Southeast Reg'lDevelopmentLIL                  5.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00     4.28        1.23      0.00
PO57531     2002 MX Basic Ed.APL I1                              300.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00   130.66      35.66       0.00
P065988     2002 GEF MX Consolidat.ProtAreas (SINAP11)             0.00       0.00                 16.10      0.00     7.15       11.19      0.00
PO77602     2002 MX Tax Admin institutionalDevelopment            52.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00    51.48       9.84       0.00
PO65779     2001 MX FEDERAL HIGHWAYMAiNTENANCEPROJ.              218.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00   101.59      61.59       0.00
PO66321     2001 MX: Ill BASIC HEALTHCARE PROJECT                350.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00   327.73       56.33      0.00
PO66674     2001 GEF MX-lndigenous&CommunityBiodiversity           0.00       0.00                   7.50     0.00     6.59       4.27       0.00
PO71323     2001 MX Bank RestructuringFacilityI1                 505.06       0.00                   0.00     0.00   175.01      175.01      0 00
PO64887     2001 MX DISASTERMANAGEMENT(ERL)                      404.05       0.00                   0.00   200.00   181.27      182.22      0.00
PO63463     2001 METHANECAPTURE8 USEAT A LANDFILL                  0.00       0.00                   6.27     0.00     1.45        5.15      4.01
PO60908     2001 GEF MX-MESOAMERICANCORRIDOR                       0.00       0.00                  14.84     0.00    15.27        5.86      0.00
PO66938     2000 MX GENDER(LIL)                                    3.07       0.00                   0.00     0.00     2.33        2.33      1.50
PO60718     2000 GEF MXALTERNATiVEENERGY                           0.00       0.00                   8.90     0.00     5.37        8.90      0.00
PO07610     1999 MX FOVlRESTRUCTURING                            505.50       0.00                   0.00     0.00   185.00      185.00      0.00
PO44531     1998 MX KNOWLEDGE8 INNOV.                            300.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00   161.60      144.10      0.00
PO49895     1998 MX HIGHERED. FINANCING                           180.20      0.00                   0.00     0.00    91.71       80.57      0.00
PO07700     1997 MX COMMUNlrY FORESTRY                             15.00      0.00                   0.00     0.00     5.18        5.18      0.00
PO07713     1996 MX WATER RESOURCES MANA                          186.50      0.00                   0.00    54.00    39.71       93.71      3.71
PO07648     1993 MX MEDIUMCITIES TRANSP                          200.00       0.00                   0.00    96.76     1.10       97.86      7486

                                                        Total:  4454.46       0.00                59.41     350.76  2618.70     1413.19      84.08




                                                                   - 59 -

                                              MEXICO
                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                           June 30 2003
                                                    -
                                         InMillions US Dollars

                                                          Committed                   Disbursed
                                                       IFC                          IFC
FY Approval       Company                         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
0197              Fondo Chiapas                    0.00    3.53  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998              FojaMonterrey                    9.29    3.00  0.00   9.29   9.29   3.00    0.00   9.29
2001              GFNorte                        50.00     0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1991196           GIBSA                           13.52    0.00  0.00  45.48  13.52   0.00    0.00  45.48
1993              GIDESA                           0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996100           GIRSA                          41.79     0.00  0.00  55.71  41.79   0.00    0.00  55.71
                  Grupo BBVA                       0.00   30.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   30.00   0.00   0.00
0                 Grupo Calidra                    8.00    6.00  0.00   5.00   8.00   6.00    0.00   5.00
1998              Grupo FEMSA                      0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
                  Grupo Minsa                     13.14    0.00  0.00  18.78  13.14    0.00   0.00  18.78
1989              Grupo Posadas                  23.68     0.00  10.00  0.00  23.68    0.00   10.00  0.00
1997              Grupo Sanfandila                 6.20    0.00  0.00   2.53   6.20    0.00   0.00   2.53
0192196199        Hospital ABC                    30.00    0.00  0.00  14.00  10.29    0.00   0.00   7.21
1998              ITR                             12.00    0.00  0.00   3.33  12.00    0.00   0.00   3.33
2000              Innopack                         0.00   15.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   15.00   0.00   0.00
2000              InverCap                         0.00    0.07  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.06   0.00   0.00
2000              Merida I11                      28.27    0.00  0.00  66.45  28.27    0.00   0.00  66.45
2000101           Mexmal                          10.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   6.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1998              Mexplus Puertos                  0.00    1.41  0.00   0.00   0.00    1.41   0.00   0.00
2003              NEMAK                            0.00    0.00   1.51  0.00   0.00    0.00    1.51  0.00
0195199           Occidental Ho...                30.00   10.00   0.00 40.00  30.00   10.00   0.00  40.00
1996199lOOlO1     POLOMEX S.A.                     8.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   8.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
2003              PanAmerican                      0.00    9.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    9.00    0.00  0.00
2003              Plata                           10.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   8.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
2000              Puertas Finas                   13.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   13.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2001              Qualita                          0.00    2.50   3.50  0.00   0.00    2.50    3.50  0.00
2002              Rio Bravo                       47.69    0.00   0.00 55.06  47.69    0.00    0.00 55.06
2002              Saltillo S.A.                   33.31    0.00   0.00 39.46  33.31    0.00    0.00 39.46
2000              Servicios                        9.75    1.90   0.00  9.17   9.75    1.90    0.00  9.17
2000              Su Casita                        1.86   10.62   0.00  0.00    1.86  10.62    0.00  0.00
2000              TMA                              2.00    0.00   2.75  6.92   2.00    0.00    2.75  6.92
2001              Toluca Toll Road                 1.82    0.00   0.00  0.00    1.82   0.00    0.00  0.00
1997              ZNMexico I1                      0.00   10.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    2.57    0.00  0.00
1992              ZNMxc Eqty Fund                  0.00   15.30   0.00  0.00   0.00   15.30    0.00  0.00
0                 Educacion                        6.50    0.00   0.00  0.00   4.90    0.00    0.00  0.00
1998              Apasco                           7.20    0.00   0.00 28.80   7.20    0.00    0.00 28.80
2000              Ayvi                             6.43    0.00   0.00  0.00   6.43    0.00    0.00  0.00
1988191I92193I95  BBVA-Bancomer                   42.35    0.00   0.00  0.00  42.35    0.00    0.00  0.00
1998              Baring MexFnd                    0.00    1.89   0.00  0.00   0.00    1.78    0.00  0.00
0                 CIMA Mexico                      0.00    4.80   0.00  0.00   0.00    4.80    0.00  0.00
1995199           CIMA Puebla                      6.75    0.00   0.00  0.00   3.25    0.00    0.00  0.00
1998              CTAPV                            1.93    0.00   1.05  0.00    1.93   0.00    1.05  0.00
1998              Chiapas-Propalma                 0.00    1.02   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.89    0.00  0.00
0194              Comercializadora                 1.75    0.00   1.25  2.50    1.75   0.00    1.25  2.50
0
1997
                         Total Portfolio:        595.59  131.20  20.06 402.48 437.78  119.99  20.06 395.69



                                                 - 60 -

                                           Approvals PendingCommitment
FYApproval    Company                     Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999         BANAMEX LRFII                0.05       0.00     0.00     0.00
2001         BBVA-Bancomer CL             0.10       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003         Calidra Swap                 0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
1998         CimaHermosillo               0.01       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003         Copamex                      0.01       0.00     0.00     0.06
2001         Ecomex                       0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2000         Educacion                    0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2001         GFNorte-CL                   0.05       0.00     0.00     0.10
2003         Mexmal                       0.00       0.01     0.00     0.00
2003         Polomex                      0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003         Rio BravoI11                 0.05       0.02     0.00     0.17
2003         Rio BravoIV                  0.05       0.02     0.00     0.17
2003         Tizayuca                     0.03       0.01     0.00     0.03

             Total PendingCommitment:     0.35       0.06     0.00     0.53




                                       -61-

                                     Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                           MEXICO: IntegratedIrrigationModernizationProject




                                                                                  Lifeexpectancy




                                                                           Access to improvedwater source


                                                                         -Mexico



KEYECONOMICRATIOSand LO

                                                                    Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)
Grossdomestic investmentlGDP                                                            Trade
Exportsof goods andserviceslGDP
GrossdomesticsavinqslGDP
Gross nationalsavinqslGDP

Currentaccount baiance/GDP
InterestpaymentslGDP
Total debt/GDP
Total debt servicelexwrts

                                                                                      indebtedness


                                                                          -Mexico
                                                                          __Upper-middle-incomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                       1982   1992    2001   2002
                                                                                                         I
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                              8.1   6.7     4.1    4.0
Industry                                33.4  28.1    27.1   26.6     ZQ

  Manufacturing                         21.7  20.2    19.6   18.9     i o
Services                                58.4  65.2    68.7   69.4

Privateconsumption                      61.6  71.8    69.6   70.0   -io
Generalgovernment consumption           10.5   9.9    11.8   11.8
Importsof goods and services                                                    -GDI            *GDP



                                                                   I
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                   I
                                                                                                         II
Agriculture                              0.7   1.7     3.3    -0.4  30T
Industry                                 2.5   3.7     -3.5   0.0   20
  Manufacturing                          3.0   4.3     -3.7   -0.6
Services                                 2.0   3.1     0.7     1.4  lo

Privateconsumption                       2.7   2.9     2.7
Generalgovernment consumption            2.1   1.5     -1.2
Grossdomestic investment                 2.5   4.7     -5.2    0.5            -Exports         *Imports
Imports of goods and services




                                                   - 62 -

                                                                                                                   Mexico

 PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                             1982     1992    2001     2002
 Domestic prices
 (% change)
 Consumer prices                              58.9     15.5     6.4      5.0
 Implicit GDP deflator                        60.9     14.4     6.5      4.6

 Government finance
 (% of GDP, includes current grants)
 Current revenue                              27.4    23.7     21.8    22.6
 Current budget balance                        -6.0     5.0      1.9     0.2                                               I
 Overall surplusldeficit                     -14.1      1.4     -0.7    -1.2          -GDP        deflator *CPi


 TRADE
                                             1982     1992    2001     2002
 (US$millions)                                                                 Export and import levels (US$ mill.)        i
 Total exports (fob)                       24,055   46,196  158,443  160,813
  Oil                                      16,477    8,307   12,799   14,475
  Agriculture                                1,233    2,112   3,903    3,998
   Manufactures                              5,843   35,420 141,353  141,951
 Total imports (ci0                        17,011   62,129  168,396  168,949
  Consumergoods                              1,517   7,744   19,752  21,178
  Intermediategoods                        10,991   42,830  126,149  126,778
                                                                             I
  Capital goods                              4,502   11,556  22,496  20,992

 Export price index (1995=1001                 127      91      103      106           90   97   98     99   w     01

 Import price index (1995=100)                  74      91      103      104                 BExports           Imports
 Terms of trade (1995=100)                     171      100     101      102

 BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                             1982     1992    2001     2002
 (US$millions)                                                                 Current account balanceto GDP   (Oh)

 Exportsof goods and services              28,169    55,387 171,103  173,374
 imports of goods and services             22,841   73,617  184,614  185,419
 Resource balance                            5,328 -18,230  -13,511  -12,045
 Net income                                -12,261   -9,595 -13,835  -12,282
 Net current transfers                       1,043   3,386    9,338   10,268

 Current account balance                    -5,890  -24,438 -18,008  -14,058

 Financing items (net)                       2,316  26,184   25,347   19,851
 Changes in net reserves                     3,574   -1,745  -7,339   -5,793

 Memo:
 Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       914    18,975  44,814   50,607
 Conversion rate (DEC, lOCal/US$I          5.64E-2      3.1     9.3      9.7

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             1982     1992    2001     2002
 (US$ miiiionsl                                                                Composltlon of 2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
 Total debt outstanding and disbursed      86,081 112,315   158,291  153,923
   IBRD                                      2,692   11,966  10,883   10,596
   IDA                                           0        0       0        0

 Total debt sewice                         15,684   20,751   48,729   35,254
   IBRD                                       328    1,874    2,178    2,093
   iDA                                           0       0        0        0
 Compositionof net resourceflows
   Official grants                              76      14
   Official creditors                        1,577     615    -669     -432
   Private creditors                         6,391    -531    3,198   -3,932
   Foreign direct investment                 1,655   4,393   25,334   13,627
   Portfoiioequity                               0   4,783      151    -104                      F 116,503
 World Bank program
   Commitments                                540    1,313      860    1,322   A IBRD
                                                                                 -                            E -Bilateral
   Disbursements                              408    1,352      749    1,247   B -IDA    D Other multilateral
                                                                                           -                  F Private
                                                                                                                -
   Principal repayments                       133      981    1,314    1,356   C - IMF                        G Short-term
                                                                                                                 -
   Net flows                                  275      371    -565     -108
   Interestpayments                           195      892      864      737
   Net transfers                                80    -522   -1,429    -845

lxvelopment tconomics                                                                                                 Y/J/UJ




                                                           - 63 -

-64-



