Page  1
September 26, 2000
Mr. Carlos García Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
México, D.F., México
Re:  
Japanese Grant for the Irrigation and Drainage 
Modernization Project
Grant Number TF 025843
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of 
grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
five hundred sixty thousand US Dollars (US $560,000) (the Grant) to the 
United Mexican States (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its 
request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter 
Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adolfo Brizzi
Mexico Country Management Unit, Acting Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Date:
October 17, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the 
Irrigation and Drainage Modernization Project, which has as its main 
objectives the modernization of the existing infrastructure network of 
irrigation districts in Mexico, as well as the improvement of institutional 
Page  2
and operational frameworks to provide integrated management for innovative 
cofinancing of such modernization (the Project).  The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) carrying out of a study to:  (i) select water user organizations 
(WUOs) to participate in the Project; (ii) discuss with stakeholders their 
priorities, fundamental views and perspectives regarding the Project; and 
(iii) evaluate the investment capacity of the selected WUOs (this component 
(a) is estimated to cost US $92,000 equivalent);
(b) carrying out of a study to review the technological, institutional 
and financial aspects of the Project, by consulting intensively with WUOs, 
defining a portfolio of investment subprojects, preparing terms of reference 
and a manual for such subprojects, and prepare two or three typical examples 
of such subprojects (this component (b) is estimated to cost US $131,000 
equivalent);
(c) preparation of a training and capacity building program for WUOs, 
by defining a training program for WUO personnel, defining a training program 
for farmers and ditch riders on on-farm irrigation management techniques, and 
defining a training program on modern water management technology for 
personnel of the Recipient’s Comisión Nacional del Agua (CNA) (this component 
(c) is estimated to cost US $74,000 equivalent);
(d) definition of a detailed program for the completion of the transfer 
of 50 irrigation districts to WUO management (this component (d) is estimated 
to cost US $109,000 equivalent);
(e) carrying out of an analysis of pilot trust funds currently in 
operation for the financing of irrigation district infrastructure 
improvements (this component (e) is estimated to cost US $52,000 equivalent);
(f) defining a comprehensive and operational system to monitor Project 
implementation and impacts (this component (f) is estimated to cost US 
$47,000 equivalent); and
(g) carrying out of a study to:  (i) define the best methodology for 
economic and financial analysis and justification for the Project; and (ii) 
analyze the economic and financial feasibility of the Project (this component 
(g) is estimated to cost US $55,000 equivalent).
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, translation, 
editing and printing services (US $31,000 equivalent); as well as office 
supplies (US $8,000 equivalent); stakeholder consultation seminars (US 
$15,000 equivalent); and technical visits (US $7,000 equivalent) related to 
the Activities (as part of the costs itemized in paragraph 1 above).
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  
The Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit 
the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of 
claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or 
external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than March 31, 2001, or 
such later date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date).  Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant 
shall be used to fund Activities after Bank approval of financing for the 
Project, and the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date 
of such approval.  After the Closing Date, the Bank may at any time cancel 
the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) 
required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the 
responsibility solely of the Bank (in coordination with the Recipient) and 
shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Bank, by the provisions 
of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of, the United Mexican States on the Consultants or 
Page  3
any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate 
the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the 
Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, 
terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the 
Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing:  
(a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its obligations under this 
Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the United Mexican 
States, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association 
shall have been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds if:  (a) the Bank has decided, at any time 
after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the 
Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s 
assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall 
not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank 
pursuant to this Letter Agreement.
Attachment
Procurement
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 
1997 (the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of paragraph 2 
below.
2.
Services shall be procured either:  (a) under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions, which are 
consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; or (b) under contracts awarded 
to firms in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the 
provisions of the Administrative Manual, of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Services and supplies referred to in the second sentence of paragraph 2 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured in a manner 
consistent with the procurement rules for such items set forth in the 
Administrative Manual.
