Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7461-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Micro and Small Enterprise Finance Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 3, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 3, 2008
,
between PEOPLE’S 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-End Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by t
he
Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV –
 
EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Project Implementing Entity has adopted the Operational Manual in 
accordance with Section I, B.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and 
in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Project 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Project Implementing 
Entity, and is legally binding upon the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the provision of loans to 
micro and small 
enterprises (“MSE”) on a mass-market and commercially sustainable 
basis and in strengthening the institutional and human resource capacity of China 
Development Bank (also known as “Project Implementing Entity”) and the Participating 
Financial Institutions (“PFIs”). 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1: Credit Facility 
 
Establishment of a MSE lending program, consisting of the provision of 
subsidiary loans, through the Project Implementing Entity, to PFIs for onlending to MSEs 
to carry out sub-projects in selected sectors. 
 
Part 2: Technical Assistance Facility 
 
Carrying out a comprehensive program to strengthen the institutional and human 
resource capacity of the Project Implementing Entity and PFIs in the provision of 
financial services to MSEs, including provision of staff training and consultants’ services 
therefor. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangement
A.
 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1.
 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the 
following principal terms:  
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
(b) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of seventeen (17) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years: (A) the principal amount so 
made available; and (B) an amount equal to the fee paid pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement.  
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the 
Annex to the Schedule of the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than one (1) 
month after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General 
 
1.
 Goods
.
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other 
Than Consultants
’
Services)  
 
1.
 
Procurement in Loans to Financial Intermediaries
.
Goods, works and 
services (other than consultants’ services) under Subprojects shall be procured under 
contracts awarded pursuant to paragraph 3.12 of the Procurement Guidelines following 
established private sector and commercial practices.
 
Page  9
-
8
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based 
Selection 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single-source Selection 
(d)  
Established Private or Commercial Practices which have been 
found acceptable to the Bank 
(e)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) 
 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; (b) each contract for consultants’ services, regardless of cost, procured using 
Single-source Selection; and (c) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category, inclusive of taxes. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(in Dollars)
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
To be financed
(1)  Subloans  
95,000,000 
80% of amounts 
disbursed 
(2)  Consultant Services, 
training and workshops 
5,000,000 100% 
TOTAL 
 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-End Fee;  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after July 1, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures; and  
 
(c) 
under Category (2) until the Bank shall have received evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that the total amount of the grant Co-financing 
has been used to finance expenditures under Part 2 of the Project.   
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage
)
On each June 15 and December 15 
Beginning June 15, 2011, 
through June 15, 2024 
 
3.57% 
 
On December 15, 2024 
3.61% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  12
-
11
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and the term “Categories” means, collectively, all such 
Categories. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“Co-financier” means either of: (a) Kreditanstalt far Wiederaufbau (KfW); and 
(b) the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, represented by KfW; 
and “Co-financiers” mean, collectively, both Co-financiers.  
 
4. 
“Co-financing” means, collectively: (a) the loan in the amount of USD 50 million 
to be provided by KfW to the Project Implementing Entity for Part 1 of the 
Project; and (b) the grant in the amount of Euros 3 million to be provided by 
KfW to the Project Implementing Entity to assist in the financing of Part 2 of the 
Project. 
 
5. 
“Co-financing Agreements” means, collectively: (a) the Loan Agreement dated 
September 20, 2006, entered into between KfW and the Project Implementing 
Entity for the financing of Part 1 of the Project; and (b) the Financing Agreement 
dated September 20, 2006, entered into between KfW and the Project 
Implementing Entity for the grant financing of Part 2 of the Project; and the term 
“Co-financing Agreement” means either of the Co-financing Agreements. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Assessment Framework” means the Environmental Assessment 
Framework dated August 1, 2006, for evaluation of environmental impacts 
adopted by the Project Implementation Entity and referred to in paragraph B.1(a) 
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which sets forth policies 
and procedures for the preliminary screening of proposed Subprojects, and for 
the preparation of environmental assessment and environment management plans 
therefor during the implementation of the Project, as said framework may be 
amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
7. 
“Financial Management Guidelines” means the financial management guidelines 
to be adopted by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section II, B.2, of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as such guidelines may be amended with 
the prior approval by the Bank. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
Page  14
-
13
-
9. 
“MSE” means micro and small enterprises established and operating in the 
People’s Republic of China, which are eligible to participate under the Project 
pursuant to the provisions of the Operational Manual and referred to in Section I, 
B.3(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and the term “MSEs” means, 
collectively, all such MSEs. 
 
10. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I, B.1 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement (including the Financial Management Guidelines to be adopted by the 
Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section II, B.2 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement) as such Manual may be amended with the prior approval by 
the Bank. 
 
11. 
“Participating Financial Institution” and the acronym “PFI” mean any credit 
institution established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Commercial 
Banking Law dated May 10, 1995, amended on December 27, 2003, or other 
relevant laws and regulations and referred to in Section I, B.2 of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement; and the term “Participating Financial Institutions” and the 
acronym “PFIs” mean, collectively, all such Participating Financial Institutions. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, dated May 9, 
2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the China Development Bank (“CDB”), a 
state-owned bank established in 1994 pursuant to the State Council Document 
No. 22 of 1994, responsible for supporting the Borrower’s economic 
development policies and programs through the provision of long-term financing 
for infrastructure, basic industries and regional development.  
 
15. 
“Renminbi” and the acronym “RMB” mean the currency of the Borrower. 
 
16. 
“Subloan” means a loan made by a PFI to an MSE out of the proceeds of a 
Subsidiary Loan for the financing and carrying out of a Subproject under Part 1 
of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement and the 
Operational Manual, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and 
referred to in Section I, B.3(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and the 
term “Subloans” means, collectively, all such Subloans. 
 
17. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made by the Project Implementing Entity to a 
PFI out of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of financing Subprojects 
Page  15
-
14
-
pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Operational Manual, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and referred to in Section I, 
B.3 and B.4 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement;
 and the term “Subsidiary 
Loans” means, collectively, all such Subsidiary Loans. 
 
18. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Project Implementing Entity and a PFI, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the 
Subsidiary Loan under terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual 
and referred to in Section I, B.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and 
the term “Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, all such Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements. 
 
19. 
“Subproject” means an investment project (including working capital and fixed 
asset investments) to be carried out by an MSE, using financing from the 
proceeds of a Subloan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual and referred to in Section I, B.3(c) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement; and the term “Subprojects” means, collectively, all such Subprojects.  
 
20. 
“Technical Cooperation Agreement” and the acronym “TCA” mean the 
agreement to be entered into between the Project Implementing Entity and each 
PFI pursuant to the provisions of the Operational Manual and under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project 
and referred to in Section I, B.3(b) and B.6 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Loans of the Bank, dated  
July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 2.07 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“(b) 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the 
Effective Date and pay to itself the amount of the Front-end Fee payable pursuant 
to Section 3.01.” 
2. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee 
 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate 
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).” 
3. 
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.02 to read as follows: 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
“Section 3.02.
 Interest 
 
(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the 
Default Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified 
in the Loan Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant 
to Article IV as a result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  
Interest at the Default Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default 
Interest Period and shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment 
Date.” 
 
4. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a)  
The term “Commitment Charge” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(b) 
A new term “Default Interest Period” is added to the Appendix and 
defined to read as follows:  
 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such 
overdue amount remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such 
Default Interest Period shall commence on the 31
st
 
day following the date 
on which such amount becomes overdue, and the final such Default 
Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is fully paid. 
 
(c) 
A new term “Default Interest Rate” is added to the Appendix and defined 
to read as follows: 
 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
Page  17
-
16
-
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%). 
(d) A 
new 
term 
“Default LIBOR” is added to the Appendix and defined to 
read as follows:  
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR 
shall be equal to LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue. 
(e) 
A new term “Default Variable Rate” is added to the Appendix and 
defined to read as follows: 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, 
Default Variable Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest 
Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 
first becomes overdue. 
 
(f)  
The definition of the term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan 
Currency in effect at 12:0 1 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided further that 
notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on 
which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one 
calendar day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of 
denomination of such amount. 
 
(g) 
The definition of the term “Front-end Fee” is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Front-end Fee” means the fee specified in the Loan Agreement for the 
purpose of Section 3.01. 
Page  18
-
17
-
(h) 
The definition of the term 
“LIBOR Reset Date” is modified to read as 
follows:  
 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means: 
 
(a)  
for any Loan Currency other than Euro, the day two London 
Banking Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period 
(or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable 
Spread Loan, the day two London Banking Days prior to the 
fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in which the 
Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan 
Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in 
which the Loan Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date 
shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth 
day of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of 
a
Fixed Spread Loan, the day two London Banking Days prior to 
the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan 
Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that if the date of the 
Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, 
the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking 
Days prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the 
Conversion Date of a Currency Conversion of an amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency other 
than Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial 
LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day 
two London Banking Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of 
the month in which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day 
immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided, that if the 
Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, 
the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the 
day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date);  
 
(b)  
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first 
day of the relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial 
Interest Period for a Variable Spread Loan, the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding 
the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that 
if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth 
day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days 
prior to the fifteenth day of such month; (ii) in the case of the 
Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the day two 
Page  19
-
18
-
Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the 
month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day 
immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; provided 
that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or 
fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the 
day two Target Settlement Days prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to 
Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR 
Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two 
Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the 
month in which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day 
immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided that if the 
Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, 
the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the 
day two Target Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); 
and  
 
(c)  
notwithstanding sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, 
for a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the Bank 
determines that market practice for the determination of the 
LIBOR Reset Date is on a date other than as set forth in said sub-
paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be such other date, as 
further specified in the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(i) 
The definition of the term 
“Loan Payment” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, 
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan 
Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate 
(if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion 
or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any 
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower. 
 
(j) 
The definition of the term “Payment Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is 
payable. 
 
