Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1705 
Project Name 
China: Commercially Sustainable Micro and Small Business 
Finance 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Micro- and SME finance (90%);Banking (10%) 
Project ID 
P096285 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF CHINA 
Implementing Agency 
 
The Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe, West District 
China 
China 
100820 
Tel: 86-10-6855 1124 Fax: 86-10-68551125 
jk.wu@mof.gov.cn 
China Development Bank 
No.29 Fuchengmenwai Stree 
West District 
China 
100037 
Tel: 86-10-6830 
Fax: 86-10-68307214 
hunaijun@cdb.com.cn 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
June 21, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 30, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
China faces a difficult challenge to diversify its sources of growth and to improve the rate of job 
creation.  Micro and small businesses (referred to as “small businesses” hereafter) will have to 
play a greater role in both. Yet small businesses in China generally lack access to credit from 
formal financial institutions (“banks” hereafter) and must rely on informal sources.  Lack of 
access to credit has been shown to be a key constraint to the ability of small businesses to grow 
and create jobs.
1
Many government and industry officials in China share an entrenched perception that small 
businesses are inherently risky, and thus are not suitable clients for banks.  Many experiments in 
1
See for example: How Important Are Financing Constraints?  The role of finance in business environment
,
Ayyagari, Demirgüç-Kunt, Maksimovic May 26, 2005, as well as survey reports by the PBC and CPDF. 
Page  2
promoting small-business access to financial resources have experienced unacceptably high loan 
loss rates.  Yet these perceptions and experiences are inconsistent with the growing number of 
experiences in other countries indicating that a diversified portfolio of small business loans can 
often be less risky than a less diversified portfolio of loans to large firms.  The persistence of this 
perception in China risks undermining appropriate policy decisions and skewing the design of 
government interventions geared toward promoting greater access. 
 
China also faces the related challenge to fully commercialize the banking system.  Among 
banks’ most profound and debilitating weaknesses in China is underdeveloped credit risk 
management capacity.  Collateral-based lending remains the norm, and cash-flow analysis 
remains limited.  The overemphasis on collateral constrains the availability of credit to small 
businesses which cannot meet banks’ collateral requirements, but which can generate adequate 
cash-flow to service bank loans at commercial rates of interest.   
 
Commercializing the banking system also will require that banks differentiate themselves 
strategically.  Too many banks pursue lending to large and state-affiliated firms and the intense 
competition arguably has led to under-pricing of credit risk in general.  As in other countries, 
small business lending can serve as a key component of new commercially-viable business 
strategies for many banks in China. 
 
For the last several years the Bank has pursued a financial sector AAA program involving 
advocacy and support for adoption of a number of principles, policies and practices related to 
extending credit to small businesses.  These include the principle of “commercial sustainability” 
as the necessary foundation for efforts to promote greater access to credit, the liberalization of 
interest rates as essential to allow for commercial sustainability, and the use of specialized small 
business lending technologies that have been used with success in other countries.  Recently the 
authorities have liberalized lending interest rates and have formally adopted the principle of 
commercial sustainability, though some relevant officials continue to express skepticism 
regarding the latter.  Among what remains to be achieved is to import the small business lending 
technologies that have been perfected in other countries and put them into practice in China so as 
to demonstrate a successful approach to micro and small business lending and to reinforce 
understanding of the relevance of commercial sustainability and interest rate liberalization.  That 
is the main intention of this project.  Collaboration with the Bank is seen as essential so as to 
facilitate the ability to gain access to the relevant international experiences and the highest 
quality of relevant technical expertise, as well as to assist in implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation so as to ensure the effectiveness of the proposed activities and to attain the specific 
objectives of the project.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
In the course of this project, it is expected that: 
 
·
The credit needs of several tens of thousands of small businesses, the vast majority of 
which have never before had access to bank loans, will be met; 
Page  3
·
Lending partners and newly recruited and trained lending officers will learn and utilize 
new business practices and lending technologies to make loans and other financial 
services available on a mass-market, commercially-sustainable basis to small businesses; 
·
The effort described immediately above will be imbedded within an institutional setting 
that is intended to build a critical mass of domestic capacity for progressive nationwide 
scaling-up;
2
and 
·
The process and results will be documented in a comprehensive manner, including by 
evaluating the outcomes for borrowers who obtain access to bank credit under the project, 
in order to facilitate nationwide scaling-up. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The project will finance a line of credit to the China Development Bank (CDB) (estimated at 
$100 million, $90 million of which will be used for on-lending and $10 million for technical 
assistance).  Under the project, CDB will establish and build a business unit and business line 
designed to achieve the objectives of the program, and will utilize its own financial resources in 
addition to the Bank loan proceeds in order to increase the impact of the project.  CDB’s 
business line will involve lending to partner banks and other financial institutions (“lending 
partners”) for the purpose of on-lending to the target clientele, as well as arranging for technical 
support to lending partners to ensure they have the institutional capacity to make a high volume 
of loans to small businesses on a commercially sustainable basis using the business practices and 
lending technologies to be promoted under the program.
3
Lending partners are envisioned to 
include both existing commercial banks and possibly greenfield microfinance institutions that are 
emerging as a result of recent changes in regulatory policies.
4
Consistent with CDB’s role and 
its financial sector development strategy, under this project CDB does not intend to engage 
directly in small business lending, but rather will launch and nurture the development of this new 
market with the goal that lending partners (commercial financial institutions) will increasingly 
engage in the conduct of the business.   
 
The project has an expected duration of five years at which time the technical assistance funds 
will have been fully utilized and the on-lending component fully disbursed. 
 
2
Nationwide scaling-up is not itself a development objective of this project. 
3
The business practices and lending technologies are characterized by client-responsive loan product design (e.g., 
loan maturities, repayment schedules, collateral requirements), interest rates adequate to cover the costs of lending 
plus a reasonable profit, rigorous loan officer recruitment and training practices, compensation packages that 
provide financial incentives to loan officers to attract new clients and to collect loans, close monitoring of borrowers 
and loan repayment status, rapid response to delinquencies or de
terioration in borrowers’ financial condition, and 
specialized and standardized accounting, risk management and management information systems.  Group lending is 
not envisioned to be employed in the program.   
4
Both the PBC and CBRC have committed to exploring ways to promote specialized greenfield microfinance 
institutions, including reshaping of regulatory framework to encourage private and foreign participation in 
specialized MSE finance institutions. 
Page  4
It is envisioned that the technical support will involve, among other activities, recruiting and 
training new loan officers,
5
strengthening lending policies and procedures, putting in place 
accounting, risk management and management information system prerequisites, supporting loan 
application preparation, screening and decision-making, and supporting loan monitoring and 
collections.   CDB is about to contract for international consulting services to assist it in 
developing the institutional capacity to undertake the proposed business, including a full-time 
resident advisor who begins work in June 2005.  Additional, substantial, international consulting 
services to assist lending partners in developing the institutional capacity to undertake the 
proposed business will be contracted under the project. 
 
The initial focus of the program will be on borrowers characterized as micro and small whose 
credit needs would be consistent with a targeted average loan size under the project of under 
$10,000.  Several reasons lie behind the decision to focus on the smaller end of the potential 
client market, including the desire to provide a better training opportunity for the relatively large 
number of new loan officers that will be required, the likely relatively lower income strata and 
currently limited access to bank credit of the target clientele, and the portfolio diversifications 
benefits of a larger number of smaller loans.  Eventually larger borrowers may be considered in 
those lending partners that have performed well and can demonstrate the capacity to undertake 
such lending on commercially sustainable basis.   
 
There will be no sectoral targeting under the project.  Loans will be for working capital and 
investment.  It is envisioned that the lending partner branches involved in the project initially 
will be those located in urban and peri-urban areas, with roll-out during the project to 
increasingly rural areas.  CDB will assume the full credit risk of its loans to lending partners, and 
lending partners will assume the full credit risk on loans to the target clientele.  No government-
sponsored guarantee programs are envisioned to be utilized under the project.  
 
Measurable project outputs will be: 
 
·
The number of loans made and the number of small businesses that gain access to loans 
under the program (to be measured in the tens of thousands during the four-year life of 
the project); 
·
The number of  new loan officers trained in the lending technologies (to be measured in 
the several thousands); and 
·
The commercial sustainability of the program as measured initially in terms of low 
portfolio past-due and default rates (e.g., <2% and <1%, respectively)  
 
In addition, the business practices and lending technologies propagated under the program are 
intended to serve as a foundation for new business opportunities and financial sustainability 
without the need for government subsidy for a steadily increasing number of banks throughout 
urban and rural China, including by adopting international standard credit risk management and 
other practices. 
 
5
Only in exceptional circumstances will existing loan officers be retrained under the project, though this is 
envisioned under the nationwide scaling-up for which this project is designed to lay the foundations. 
Page  5
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The project is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental or social impacts.  Beyond the 
use of a screening mechanism, no further action is required for this project. 
 
While micro finance projects generally involve no safeguard risks in terms of directly triggering 
the Bank’s policies, it is recommended by the EAP Safeguards Secretariat that some of this 
social development/vulnerable group issues requiring due diligence be covered/guided by a 
social assessment study which could have a TOR to cover such issues including criteria for 
selection of project beneficiaries, eligibility criteria (including the poor, ethinic minorities), 
targeting, gender concerns, etc. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 200 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
300 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Jun Wang 
Title: Sr Financial Sector Spec. 
Tel: 5788+7657 
Fax: 5861 7800 
Email: jwang3@worldbank.org 
Location: Beijing, China (IBRD) 
 
wb176091 
L:\CDB\Lending project\Project Information Document - Concept Stage.doc 
7/8/2005 3:27:00 PM
 
