                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2058



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-74610)



                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                         PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                       FOR A

             MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT



                                 December 19, 2011




Financial and Private Sector Development
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                                Currency Unit = RMB Yuan

                                        Exchange Rate at ICR, December 19, 2011
                                               RMB 1.00 = US$0.15624
                                               US$1.00= RMB 6.35040

                                      Exchange Rate at Loan Closing, June 30, 2011
                                                  RMB 6.46 = US$1

                                        Exchange Rate at Appraisal, May 19, 2007
                                                  RMB 6.50 = US$1

                                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                                 January 1 – December 31

                                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

                         AAA             Analytical and Advisory Activities
                         CAP             Corrective Action Plan
                         CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
                         CBRC            China Banking Regulatory Commission
                         CCB             City Commercial Bank
                         CDB             China Development Bank
                         CNAO            China National Audit Office
                         CPS             Country Partnership Strategy
                         EAF             Environmental Assessment Framework
                         FIL             Financial Intermediation Loan
                         FM              Financial Management
                         FMR             Financial Management Report
                         FPD             Financial and Private Sector Development
                         FSL             Fixed Spread Loan
                         GDP             Gross Domestic Product
                         GOC             Government of China
                         IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                         IPC             Internationale Projekt Consult GmbH
                         ISR             Implementation Status and Results Report
                         KfW             Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
                         LOC             Line of Credit
                         MBU             Microfinance Business Unit
                         MoF             Ministry of Finance
                         MSE             Micro and Small Enterprise
                         MSME            Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise
                         NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
                         NPL             Non-Performing Loan
                         OM              Operational Manual
                         PBC             People’s Bank of China
                         PFI             Participating Financial Institution
                         PIE             Project Implementing Entity
                         PIC             Project Implementation Consultant
                         RCB             Rural Commercial Bank
                         SDR             Special Drawing Rights
                         SCB             State-Owned Commercial Bank
                         SLA             Subsidiary Loan Agreement
                         SME             Small and Medium Enterprise
                         TCA             Technical Cooperation Agreement

                                            Vice President:     James W. Adams
                                          Country Director:     Klaus Rohland
                                           Sector Director:     Tunc Tahsin Uyanik
                                     Project Team Leaders:      Wang Jun, Nancy Chen
                                         ICR Team Leader:       Nancy Chen

Acknowledgements: The ICR was peer reviewed by Aurora Ferrari, and Leyla V. Castillo, Financial Inclusion – Micro & SME
Finance Practice Group
                                   PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
                                Micro and Small Enterprise Finance Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information.....................................................................................................i
   B. Key Dates ………………………………………………………………………….i
   C. Ratings Summary…………………………………………………………………..i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes…………………………………………………………..ii
   E. Bank Staff....……………………………………………………………………….ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis……………………………………………………...iii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs…………………………………………..iv
   H. Restructuring………………………………………………………………………v
   I. Disbursement Graph……………………………………………………………….v

1.    Project Context, Development Objectives And Design .............................................. 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 5
3.    Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 10
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 16
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 16
6.    Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 18
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 20
Annex 2. Outputs By Component ..................................................................................... 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 35

MAP .................................................................................................................................. 36
                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                       Micro and Small
Country:                China                   Project Name:          Enterprise Finance
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P096285                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD 74610
ICR Date:               12/19/2011              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       PEOPLES REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       OF CHINA
Original Total
                        US$100 Million          Disbursed Amount:      US$95 Million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         N/A
Environmental Category: FI
Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agencies:
China Development Bank
No 29 Fuchengmenwai Street
West District
Beijing
China
 Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) provided a
loan of US$50 million and 3 million Euros (US$3.78 million equivalent) for the TA.



B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/29/2005     Effectiveness:          08/30/2007           07/10/2008
Appraisal:            10/30/2006     Restructuring(s):          N/A                   N/A
Approval:             06/19/2007     Mid-term Review:           N/A                   N/A
                                     Closing:                06/30/ 2011             N/A

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                          Low
Bank Performance:                                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                            Satisfactory


                                                i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory        Government:          Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                                     No                                            N/A
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                                     No                                            N/A
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                 Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro and MSE Finance                                                  95                 90
Banking                                                                5                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Support                             67              100
Other Financial and Private Sector Development                         33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:              James W. Adams                      James W. Adams
Country Director:            Klaus Rohland                       David Dollar
Sector Director:             Tunc Tahsin Uyanik                  Tunc Tahsin Uyanik
Project Team Leaders:        Wang Jun, Nancy Chen                Wang Jun
ICR Team Leader:             Nancy Chen
ICR Primary Author:          Hiran Heart




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

To expand credit flows to Micro and Small Enterprise (MSEs) on a mass-market and
commercially sustainable basis by strengthening the institutional and human resources
capacity of Project Implementing Entity (PIE) within the China Development Bank
(CDB) and the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                                                          Formally Revised      Actual Value
                           Baseline   Original Target Values (from approval documents)     Target Values         Achieved at
       Indicator            Value                                                                               Completion or
                            2005                                                                                Target Years
                                      2006      2007    2008         2009   2010   2011

                                                                                                N/A          Growth in the initial
(i) Annual percentage                                                                                        years far exceeded the
increase in number of         0       N/A      305%     146%         67%    65%                              targets. In 2010, 65%
MSE loans                                                                                                    of the anticipated
                                                                                                             target was met.
(ii) Maximum                                                                                                 Average sub-loans
percentage of sub-loans                                                                                      overdue more than
overdue by more than                                                                                         30 days by the end
                              0       <3%       <3%      <3%         <3%    <3%    <3%
30 days (sub-loan                                                                                            of the project was
repayment                                                                                                    less than 0.7%.
performance)
                                                                                                             Comparison was not
(iii) Average                                                                                                carried out.
profitability of MSEs in                                                                                     However, the
the treatment group           0        tbd       tbd     Tbd         tbd    tbd    tbd                       average net profit of
compared with a                                                                                              the PFIs for the
control group.                                                                                               credit component
                                                                                                             was 11%.
Note: At the project appraisal, there was no baseline because very few micro-lending existed.




                                                               iii
   (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target Values (from approval documents)                                   Actual Value
                      Baseline
                                                                                                      Formally Revised     Achieved at
       Indicator       Value
                                                                                                       Target Values      Completion or
                       2005         2006       2007        2008      2009         2010         2011                       Target Years

(i) Number of PIE
staff able to evaluate
and monitor                                                                                                              7 in CDB HQs, and
                        0          6          12         14        16          18            18             N/A
commercial banks                                                                                                          12 in CDB branch
eligibility to engage
in MSE activity.
(ii) Number of MSE
                       None       3360       13200      40100     72300       11960         119600                            175,9081
borrowers.
(iii) Average sub-
                       None      50,000     50,000      50,000    50,000      50,000        50,000                            98,3322
loan size
(iv) Number of PFIs
that adopt and
implement
                                                                                                                               12
institution             0          6          12         14        16          18            18
                                                                                                                             Note (a)
development plans
and project-related
credit technologies.
(v) Number of PIE
in-house advisors
able to advise PFIs               N/A         4           8        10          15            15                                 19
in conducting MSE
lending business.
(vi) Number of
                        0         80         265         398       596         894           894                               1079
trained loan officers.

   (a) From the 18 PFIs identified as possible candidates, CDB determined that 12 were eligible to participate in the
   program. Of the 12 PFIs selected, only 6 borrowed the sub-loan. The other six were able to tap into their own
   resources for MSE lending, due to the fact that the robust and favorable economic environment enabled the banks to
   enjoy a surplus of funding for their own lending purposes.


   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                                  Actual
                   Date ISR
       No.                                         DO                                  IP                     Disbursements
                   Archived
                                                                                                              (US$ million)
        1      04/21/2008                   Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                              US$ 0.00
        2      04/30/2009                   Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                            US$95.00 M
        3      06/23/2010                   Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                            US$95.00 M
                                                                                                           US$95 million have
                                                                                                           been fully disbursed.
                                                                                                           Undisbursed amount of
        4      06/23/2011                   Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                           US$5 million was
                                                                                                           canceled upon project
                                                                                                           closure.




   1
     After June 2008, the data pertains to the six PFIs mentioned above, as information on the other six banks was not
   available since IPC (Internationale Projekt Consult GmbH, the project’s consultant) left those PFIs.
   2
     Average loan was larger than originally envisioned. Please refer to footnote 4 for detail.




                                                                   iv
H. Restructuring (If Any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
     N/A




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       v
1.     PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and Sector Background: Spectacular achievements in China also
brought about a host of challenges to the country, namely maintaining sustainable
economic growth, protecting the natural resources and environment; and addressing the
rising economic, social and regional inequalities. To meet these challenges, China needed
to diversify its sources of economic growth and raise the efficiency of resource
allocation, preferably to those that contributed to employment without exerting undue
pressure on the already strained environment and heavy demand on natural resources.
One potential source for growth was micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs),
which contributed meaningfully to GDP growth, job creation and export earnings. Within
the MSME sector, micro and small enterprises (MSEs) were expected to play an
important role in addressing these challenges. Promoting MSEs, the majority of which
were privately owned, was a Government priority in the drive to build a well-off and
harmonious society. While MSMEs as a whole suffered from constrained credit, it was
the MSEs that had over time became the forgotten segment, the one that bore the brunt of
the lack of access to finance. Banks tended to consider enterprises in the upper end of the
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) as bankable for investment opportunities, and
microfinance (especially in the rural areas) had at least received attention from NGOs and
donors for financial resources.

2.      For MSEs, the reasons behind their lack of access to finance were numerous and
complex. Government officials and banks in China shared an entrenched perception that
lending to MSEs was inherently risky, in part because past attempts by banks at reaching
out to MSEs had resulted in unacceptably high losses in their balance sheets. Another
reason was a longstanding credit culture biased towards collateral and guarantees.
Lacking the ability to process the soft information that is characteristic among MSEs,
banks relied heavily on collateral and credit guarantees. Regulatory policies also
perpetuated this tendency by insisting on collateral and guarantee arrangements while
non-secured lending was discouraged. As most MSEs did not possess the kind of
collateral required by banks and had difficulty arranging for guarantees, banks usually
found that MSE lending became either an impossible or extremely costly proposition.

3.     Commercializing the banking system meant that banks needed to differentiate
themselves strategically. Most banks pursued lending to large and state-affiliated firms
and the intense competition had led to under-pricing of credit risk in general. In the past
when responding to political calls to serve the SMEs, banks tended to apply the same
corporate lending techniques to micro and small lending, only to find their non-
performing loans on the rise, which served to accentuate further the entrenched notion
that MSE lending was risky. The overemphasis on collateral constrained the availability
of credit to MSEs which in turn could not meet banks’ and supervisors’ collateral
requirements, regardless of whether their cash flow was adequate to service bank loans at
commercial rates of interest.



                                            1
4.      However, increased competition resulting from financial liberalization was
expected to push many banks towards the lower end of the market and toward lending to
MSEs. As a result, MSE lending was expected to serve as a key component of new
business strategies for many banks in China. But to be successful in lending to MSEs,
banks needed to adopt lending technologies more suited to MSEs while the entrenched
attitude against lending to MSEs would need to evolve.

5.      Given the above development and in line with the priority the government
attached to MSE development, it was important to launch an MSE lending and bank
capacity building project aimed at providing better access to finance by the MSEs in
China, and at adopting tried and tested techniques. It was also important to imbed these
practices and approach in an institutional framework that could enable eventual
nationwide rollout and scaling up. The project was expected to provide this modality and
to address the above constraints to MSE finance. At the same time, it was expected to
contribute to reinforcing the government’s policy objective of encouraging flows of funds
to emerging private entrepreneurs and small enterprises. The government therefore
attached a high priority to the project.

6.      Rational for Bank Assistance: The project was developed from the Bank’s
financial sector work program, designed to assist China in reform and development of the
financial sector. The Bank’s advocacy for commercially sustainable microfinance had
been an integral part of this program. Furthermore, through intensive engagement and
continued dialogue with the authorities, the Bank had established a substantial credibility
and was ideally placed to play a major role in supporting a specific operation to promote
bank lending to MSEs. The Bank’s involvement in the project was expected to further
advance work in this area. Through the project the Bank was expected to help develop an
appropriate mechanism for channeling funds; ensure access to high quality technical
expertise; continue to engage relevant stakeholders in the policy dialogue necessary to
create an increasingly facilitative regulatory environment; and work with partners to
ensure adequate monitoring, evaluation and propagation of the lessons learned and
experiences inherent in the project.

7.      On the one hand, the proposed project was expected to support the government’s
priority program to catalyze the expansion of commercial lending to the emerging
segment of MSEs that were strongly competitive and privately owned, but in need of
funds for working and investment capital. On the other, the project aimed to strengthen
the capacity of banks to provide lending to MSEs on a mass-market and profitable basis.
The ultimate objective was to promote expansion of private sector MSEs across China,
which would in turn bring about potential increases in job creation, income growth, and
poverty reduction as MSEs prospered and grew. These objectives were fully consistent
with the Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for the Period
2006–2010,? Report No. 35435, discussed by the Board on May 23, 2006.




                                            2
1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
       approved)

8.      The project development objective was to expand credit flows to MSEs on a
mass- market and commercially sustainable basis. It aimed to help China Development
Bank (CDB) develop a new business line involving wholesaling of MSE subsidiary loans
and provision of related technical support to Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs);
and help the PFIs build up a high-quality MSE loan portfolio based on credit technologies
that had been developed and validated under successful micro and small loan programs in
transition economies, introduced through a downscaling approach to microfinance.
Through this support, the project aimed to help introduce into China international best
practices for providing efficient financial services to MSEs. As part of this effort, by
strengthening the institutional and human resource capacity of PFIs, it was expected to
contribute to laying the foundation for progressive, nationwide scaling-up of
commercially sustainable MSE financial services.

9.     Specific outcomes and result indicators for the project were expected to include:

       (i) an increase in the number of loans to MSEs;
       (ii) improvement in the portfolio quality (percentage of overdue repayments on
       loans);
       (iii) profitability of MSEs in a treatment group compared with a control group;
       (iv) the capacity of CDB to appraise and monitor commercial banks’ eligibility to
       engage in MSE lending as PFIs;
       (v) the number of MSE borrowers;
       (vi) the average size of the MSE sub-loans;
       (vii) the number of PFIs that adopt and implement the project-related credit
       technologies; and (viii) the number of CDB in-house experts able to provide
       advisory services to PFIs on MSE lending; and (ix) the number of new loan
       officers trained in the use of the new credit technologies.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
       Indicators, and reasons/justification

10.    The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

11.     The primary target groups under the project were the MSEs. The PFIs also
benefited from the technical assistance provided under the project.

1.5    Original Components (as approved)

12.    The project envisaged a two-tier structure consisting of wholesale and retail
operations. CDB was chosen to be the wholesaler for this project and was expected to
engage in lending to, and arrange technical support for, PFIs that were engaged in MSE



                                            3
lending operations at the retail level. PFIs as retailers were initially to be selected from a
pool of City Commercial Banks (CCBs). This pool was to be subsequently expanded to
include nationwide banks, credit cooperatives, rural cooperative/commercial banks, and
other credit institutions. To this end, the project consisted of two closely linked
components: (i) a Credit Facility for on-lending to eligible PFIs; and (ii) a Technical
Assistance Facility to support capacity-building in the CDB and PFIs.

Component 1: Credit Facility (US$699 million)

13.     This facility was expected to cover the total project costs of US$699 million,
which was to be financed by a loan of US$95 million from the Bank, a loan of US$50
million from Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW), and additional funding of US$554
million by CDB and PFIs. Under this component, CDB was expected to provide medium-
to long-term subsidiary loans, with maturity of up to 10 years including a grace period of
up to 5 years, to PFIs in domestic currency. The PFIs were expected to on-lend the funds
to MSEs, on commercial terms and with a maturity not exceeding three years. The sub-
loans were to be for long-term investments and working capital and were expected to
range from RMB 100 to RMB 500,000. There was not going to be any sectoral targeting
under the project, but an exclusion list was agreed upon between the CDB and the PFIs to
avoid sub-loans going to socially and environmentally dubious activities. CDB was to
assume the full credit risk on the PFIs and the currency risk on the Bank loan. CDB was
not expected to lend directly to MSEs.

14.     CDB had already prepared and reviewed an initial list of potential PFIs. It had
entered into Technical Cooperation Agreements (TCAs) and Subsidiary Loan
Agreements (SLAs) with five (5) PFIs, three of which had embarked on MSE lending
under the project; had selected three (3) more PFIs by the end of 2006 and was expected
to select an additional four (4) by project effectiveness. Additional PFIs were expected to
be added in subsequent years. Selection criteria for the PFIs had been developed and
tested with assistance from the Bank, and the adopted criteria were to form part of the
Operations Manual.

Component 2: Technical Assistance Facility (US$20 million)

15.     The total TA costs were estimated at US$20 million. KfW had provided 3 million
Euros, or US$3.78 million equivalent, to defray the TA cost. The rest of the TA costs
were to be financed by a loan of US$5 million from the Bank and an additional US$11.22
million from CDB, if necessary.3 The actual cost was expected to vary depending on the
duration of engagement of the Project Implementation Consultant (PIC). This component
was to provide specialized and comprehensive technical assistance to the PFIs to
strengthen their institutional capacity and skills to effectively engage in MSE lending. An
internationally recruited PIC had already been contracted for this purpose. Under the
overall management of the CDB, the PIC was assisting in creating MSE lending
departments in each PFI and in the adoption and application of international best

3
    The actual TA cost was US$13.18 million, consisting of US$9.4 million from CDB and US$3.78 million from KfW.




                                                        4
practices and lending technologies/processes that have been successfully deployed in
other countries. The CDB was to provide services from the PIC to the PFIs free of charge
for at least six months, and up to two years during the initial project implementation
period.

16.    This component also included a provision for additional advisory services for
CDB to strengthen its MSE business line, including its skills for commercial bank
appraisal, assessment and monitoring, and building up its in-house advisory capacity for
MSE lending, as well as other purposes relating to the project objectives.

1.6      Revised Components

17.      The original components were not revised.

1.7      Other significant changes

18.      There were no significant changes made to the project.

2.       KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     Lessons learned from lines of credit in China and other countries that have been
taken into account in the design of this project include the following:

      1. Weak borrower accountability and management capacity have contributed to
         unsuccessful projects in China and other countries. In previous lines of credit
         (LOCs) in China, intermediation through government agencies has not been
         successful in part because these entities lack the appropriate institutional and
         operational capacity. Importantly, they did not have the appropriate financial
         sector skills or incentives framework to support lending activities. CDB was
         assigned clear responsibility and full accountability for project implementation. It
         had strong management capacity. The project was also fully in line with CDB’s
         development objectives and overall strategy as a prominent development finance
         institution at the project’s appraisal.

      2. Attention needed to be paid to the use of sound eligibility criteria that met Bank
         guidelines in selecting and monitoring the financial intermediaries to ensure their
         financial and operational quality. Drawing on lessons learned from past LOC
         projects in China, in which the Bank’s diligence tended to stop with the first-tier
         financial intermediaries, in this project, selection of PFIs was to receive special
         attention, because choosing the right PFIs was expected to be critical for the
         success of the project. Sample eligibility criteria and specific support were
         provided to CDB to strengthen its capacity to carry out the screening and
         evaluation of PFIs to ensure that they met requirements satisfactory to the Bank
         and CDB. In addition the Bank provided support to CDB in appraising the initial



                                              5
       PFIs. Monitoring of performance of the PFIs was an integral element of project
       implementation, and TA from the PIC was accepted to reinforce this task.

   3. Chances of success were expected to be enhanced by the incorporation of expert
      services to demonstrate how banks can meet the financial services needs of the
      targeted beneficiaries on a commercially sustainable basis. This was the first
      Bank project in China to directly and broadly target the MSE sector. By design, it
      incorporated the conducting of a rigorously controlled pilot led by industry
      experts and the provision of extensive TA at the PFI level to build capacity, as
      well as to strengthen CDB’s capacity in selecting and advising PFIs in MSE
      lending.

   4. LOC should include clearly defined and transparent indicators for monitoring
      implementation progress and overall impact, and provide for an orderly exit
      mechanism. Clear project indicators were defined for the MSE Finance Project.
      Monitoring was to be an important aspect of the project and was to reinforce PFI
      performance monitoring by CDB. The indicators were expected to help serve as
      an early warning system if remedial actions were deemed appropriate and needed.
      Also, sufficient flexibility was built into the project for an exit mechanism in the
      event that a PFI failed to comply with the project eligibility and implementation
      criteria.

   5. Inadequate demand from ultimate beneficiaries and lack of bankable sub-projects
      had, in the past, led to problems in the implementation of lines of credit in other
      countries. In China, however, the problem was more on the supply side, as MSEs
      had almost no access to formal financial services and products from financial
      institutions. Project funding was expected to satisfy only a portion of the demand
      in China, which was largely underserved. The PIC was to help design a simple
      sub-loan appraisal system that was to be based on intrinsic business viability, risk-
      based lending rates and ability to repay (debt capacity) rather than complex
      financial analysis, guarantees and collateral requirements.

   6. Last but not least, to be successful LOC projects required careful planning and
      preparation. The Bank and the Chinese government devoted substantial resources
      in studying the experiences and lessons from other countries and needed reforms
      for introducing commercial MSE lending. A study on the legal and regulatory
      environment at the outset of the project indicated that no binding constraints
      existed in China that would prohibit commercial MSE lending. The launching of
      the project received broad-based support from all relevant stakeholders, as it was
      preceded by extensive public awareness-building. To test the market and to
      accumulate experience, CDB had started the pilot with two PFIs with the
      assistance of the PIC.

20.     In addition to the above, careful attention was given in the design of the project to
the following features:




                                             6
         PFIs that met the criteria in full were eligible for immediate participation in the
          project. PFIs that needed further operational and financial strengthening were
          expected to be able to participate following agreement to and compliance with a
          time-bound Corrective Action Plan (CAP). The CAP was to be agreed upon
          between the CDB and the PFI and be subject to the Bank’s review.

         Eligible MSEs were expected to be majority private sector owned and operated
          (more than 50 percent private ownership), active primarily in services and trade,
          but also in manufacturing. Sub-loans for working capital and investment were to
          range from RMB 100 to RMB 500,000. The upper limit had a built-in flexibility
          amount to RMB 1 million, subject to prior agreement of the Bank, in selected
          regions where income levels were higher than the national average. The average
          size of the MSE loans were expected to be around RMB 50,000 and consideration
          was to be given to link the average size to the local per capital GNP 4 for it to
          reflect regional differences in loan demands.

         The subsidiary loan interest rates charged to PFIs were to be determined based on
          CDB’s costs of funding and its credit rating of the PFIs. At a minimum, these
          were to be positive in real terms and provide rates of return close to CDB’s
          current return on average loan assets.

         To benefit from the TA facility, the PFIs were required to enter into technical
          cooperation agreements (TCA) with CDB. Under such agreements, CDB, with the
          assistance of the PIC, was to provide TA to the PFIs free of charge for up to two
          years. Thereafter, if continued TA support was needed, CDB and PFIs would
          agree on an appropriate cost sharing arrangement. PFIs were to have access to the
          credit facility only if they entered into such TCA with CDB since the success of
          the credit facility depended on the application of modern MSE lending
          technologies and risk control procedures.

2.2       Implementation
          (Including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk
          status, and actions taken, as applicable)

21.     The major institutional and implementation arrangements of the project were the
responsibility of the CDB, including the selection of PFIs, on-lending to these PFIs,
organization of the TA and project monitoring. As a state-owned policy bank at the outset
of the project, CDB was in a good position to implement the project, given its focus on
SME lending, its policy orientation and its links with city commercial banks in China.
CDB contributed to the successful implementation of the project by contracting the TA
provider, selecting PFIs and providing them with on-lending and conducting project
monitoring and technical support. At the same time, CDB improved its own capacities in

4
 During the project’s implementation, the Chinese economy experienced high GDP growth rates of over 10 percent,
reflecting a high level of economic activities. These fueled large investment and high lending opportunities with large-
size loans. In the MSE sector, the average size of a loan easily exceeded what the project anticipated.




                                                           7
project implementation and in-house technical support. The CDB established a
microfinance business unit (MBU), which had overall responsibility for project
implementation and reporting to the Bank. The director of the MBU was the Bank’s main
counterpart. The MBU had three sections, namely: (i) PFI selection and monitoring unit;
(ii) financial advisory unit; and (iii) project management unit.5

22.      As the project’s implementation progressed, however, one characteristic
pertaining to CDB, in as much as it was a policy bank, hindered the project’s feature on
twinning TA with credit. CDB’s cost of funds is relatively high because it does not take
deposits, but must raise funds through issuing debt instruments in the bond market. Thus
its line of credits (LOCs) are not as competitive and attractive for MSE vis-à-vis those
from PFIs with sources of cheaper funds.

23.     The project was appraised in 2006, approved by the Board in June 2007 and was
closed on June 30, 2011 as scheduled. From a development point of view, the project was
close to achieving its intended target even prior to the declaration of effectiveness. A total
of 35,000 micro loans were disbursed prior to project effectiveness. The funding was
provided by CDB (which was reimbursed for that portion of the funds earmarked under
the Bank loan upon project effectiveness). By the time of project effectiveness, 12 PFIs
had received TA (under component 2) from an international consulting firm, hired for
that purpose by CDB and funded under the project by a grant from KfW and CDB’s own
funds.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24.     An important part of the PIC’s work was to ensure that a robust system was put in
place and implemented to monitor and evaluate progress with the credit facility. This
system was also expected to reflect the results and effectiveness of the TA facility.
However, the TA facility was not drawn down since CDB used its own funds for this
purpose due to the change in CDB’s mandate from a policy bank to a commercial bank
following the Government’s directive during the implementation of the project. By the
time the Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) Number 3 (06/23/2010) was
due, the World Bank’s Financial and Private Sector Development (FPD) Network had
requested a new set of indicators to be collected for all LOC projects managed by FPD
which was expected to enhance the effectiveness of projects implemented. The resulting
changes based on this new set are reflected in Annex 2, Table 3. The data to monitor
project outcomes and results was expected to be generated as an integral part of the day-
to-day business of the PFIs. A set of outcomes and results indicators were developed that
were to be monitored by CDB. Their results are presented in Annex 2, Table 1.



5
  MBU appraised commercial banks and was in charge of monitoring the TA that the consultants were providing to
PFIs. During the implementation of the project, CBD was transformed into a commercial bank and MBU was merged
into a division with broader responsibilities. CDB staff trained under the project continued to perform their
responsibility as called for in the project: monitoring the project implementation, providing training to micro-credit
companies by applying the MSE lending technology and carrying out project management and administration.




                                                          8
2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

25.     The project was classified as Category “FI.? Given the focus of the project on
MSEs, especially in the areas of trade and services, it was expected that the vast majority
of the sub-projects would have minor environmental impact, if at all. However, CDB had
established an Environmental Assessment Framework (EAF) to ensure the environmental
soundness of the project as a whole. CDB undertook environmental due diligence under
the project and put in place relevant policies, procedures and manuals on environmental
assessment satisfactory to the Bank. CDB made a commitment to ensure that the PFIs
built up their capacity to screen and evaluate sub-loan applications to prevent sub-loans
with possible economic activity that would have had a negative environmental impact.
CDB also prepared the section in the Operational Manual (OM) related to the
environment and put in place the Environmental Management Group as described in the
EAF. No environmental issues were encountered under the project.

26.    The fiduciary aspects of the project (financial management (FM) and
procurement) were rated as “Satisfactory? as implementation progressed. FM reports
were submitted on time and no major issues were noted. The financial management
system provided timely and accurate information required to manage and monitor the
implementation of the project. The project audits also were submitted on time and were
unqualified, with no major issues reported. The FM risk rating for the project has been
considered low.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

27.      As a result of the project’s achievements in this area, it creates a strong
momentum whereby more and more banks are getting involved in commercially-oriented
MSE finance. China has achieved a great deal in promoting MSE finance in this project,
which has effectively demonstrated that not only was there no basis for the entrenched
belief in inherent MSE financing risk but the opposite was true, and the principle of
commercial sustainability has successfully taken root among banks. The MSE lending
technology has also been successfully replicated in rural finance. Despite this initial
success however, the Chinese authorities and the donors recognize that the project only
represents a beginning; a great deal of commitment, efforts and actions would be needed
to achieve the desired outreach and sustainability. Lack of capacity at all levels of banks,
including management and credit officers, stands out as the first major target to overcome,
with a systematic approach to training and advisory services. In recognition of the
bottleneck and demand for training and capacity-building, the Bank has launched an
initiative to create an academy for inclusive finance, with the objective of providing
world-class training and advisory services in lending technology, management and
leadership skills to credit officers and managers.




                                             9
3.     ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

28.     The objective, design and implementation of the project remain highly relevant to
China’s and the World Bank’s development objectives. The World Bank Group continues
to play an important role in China with assistance in this area. The Bank has supported
innovation that scaled-up projects provided benefits far beyond the direct benefits of the
original project. Given China’s financial circumstances and its appropriate development
program, the World Bank Group aims to be a client-driven knowledge institution that
uses lending and other operations to pilot reforms and support institutional development.
The 2006-2010 Partnership Strategy focused on five thematic areas of engagement that
build on the World Bank Group’s international expertise, while maximizing the creation
and dissemination of knowledge of China’s development processes inside and outside
China. One of the five thematic areas was to “Deepen financial intermediation, by
expanding access to financial services (especially among SMEs), developing the capital
markets, managing systemic risks, and maintaining financial stability,? which was one of
the core development objectives of this project.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

29.      The project successfully achieved the main objective to provide loans to the MSE
sector on a mass-market and a comercially-sustainable basis and to strengthen the
institutional and human resources capacity of the CDB and the participating PFIs.
Further, all the major objectives for the two components were successfully completed,
namely the targets for loan coverage, the number of borrowers, the number of loan
officials trained, and the amount and number of micro-loans disbursed. In addition, the
project has fulfilled the target for financial viability of the micro-loans, including the loan
quality and financial performance for the operation of the micro-loans. The project has
successfully and convincingly shown that it is possible for the Chinese banks to support
MSEs in a commercially viable way. Overall, the project had a significant impact
throughout the micro-finance industry in China. Before the project, there were virtually
no banks in China that lent to MSEs. However, as its completion, the project has
established a solid and sustainable ground for MSE lending and definitely dispelled the
widespread belief on inherent risk in lending to this sector. The project strengthened the
capacity of banks to provide lending to MSEs on a mass-market and profitable basis, and
served as a key component of new business strategies for them. Most importantly, the
project’s ultimate objective – to promote the expansion of private sector MSEs across
China – was successfully realized, and thereby provides firmer foundations for projected
potential increases in job creation, income growth and poverty reduction as MSE lending
expands. The project helped to successfully mainstream the MSE lending technologies in
a number of PFIs which have in turn built up their high-quality MSE loan portfolio, and
completed the trainning for a teams of cadres of MSE credit officers. 12 PFIs benefitted
from the technical assistance under the project. While all 12 PFIs signed project
cooperation agreements with CDB, 6 PFIs (Baoshang Bank, Taizhou Bank, Jiujiang
Bank, Guiyang Bank, Maanshan RCB and Daqing Bank) signed sub-loan agreements and



                                              10
participated under the LOC until project closure. The others were actually and
successfully able to attract funds more cheaply and under better terms than what was
being offered under the LOC component and therfore could afford to forego the sub-loan
agreements and LOC as provided under the project, given the robust and stable
macroeconomic environment in the country as a whole during the life of the project. The
positive impact of the project went beyond what it intended to accomplish in so far as
MSE lending was concerned.

The achievement of the PDO is considered as Satisfactory.

30.     The project achieved a number of additional objectives above and beyond the
project’s design and expectations: (i) some PFIs have extended the microfinance
technologies learned from the project to other bank operations, mainly financing of
agricultural businesses, households and medium and small size enterprises; (ii) a number
of bank managers have applied the methodologies in the recruitment and management of
micro-loan officials for other bank positions, including corporate and consumer loan
officials; (iii) the inclusion of the micro-loan portfolio has helped the PFIs to diversify
their loan portfolio and mitigate their credit risks; and (iv) last but not least, through the
micro-lending operation the PFIs have attracted more deposits and valuable clients,
which laid a basis for further expansion of these banks. Many city and rural commercial
banks in China have quickly learned the value of the project’s pioneering examples and
started establishing their own micro-lending operations, many with support from the ex-
advisers of the project, or the advisers trained by the project.

31.      The achievements of the components are discussed below.

32.     Component 1. Credit Facility: The Bank loan of US$95 million and the KfW
loan of US$50 million were fully disbursed. In addition, the CDB and PFIs disbursed
US$2,986.8 million equivalent, including CDB on-lending to PFIs US$180.8 million
equivalent and PFIs to MSEs US$2,806 million equivalent of their own funds, for a total
disbursement of US$3,131.8 million equivalent for this component.6 Achievement of the
project indicators agreed at appraisal is highlighted below:

33.     Increase in the number of loans to MSEs. Since the first MSE loan of RMB
15,000 was disbursed in 2005, cumulative disbursement of the project reached RMB 18
billion (as compared to RMB 9.89 billion projected at appraisal) to approximately
175,908 borrowers (as compared to 119,600 projected at appraisal) by the end of the
project.

34.    Improve the portfolio quality (percentage of overdue repayments on loans).
During the implementation of the project, loan portfolio quality at all PFIs remained
excellent. Loans with payments overdue for more than 30 days amounted to a mere 0.2
percent in terms of volume and only 0.3 percent in terms of numbers. The actual level of

6
  The large amount of disbursements of about US$2.8 billion came from the PFIs, which were able to mobilize funding
themselves.




                                                       11
non-performing loans was less than 1 percent, far below the 3 percent projected at
appraisal. The average loan amount outstanding (including micro and small loans)
amounted to RMB 98,332. These figures attested that a client-oriented, individual cash
flow-based lending technology was suitable to the Chinese environment and that
commercially viable MSE lending as regular banking business is positioned well towards
a great future in China.

35.     The profitability of MSEs in a treatment group compared with a control group
was not implemented due to lack of resources from the CDB. However, the commercial
viability and profitability of the PFIs can be demonstrated by the lending rates charged by
the PFIs and the costs for providing the micro-loans. The average lending rate charged by
the PFIs was around 14.6 percent, whereas the average total costs for providing the
micro-loan was around 4.9 percent, a gap of almost 10 per cent of the loan portfolio
existing due to the low cost of funds, a low loan-loss provision due to good loan quality,
and low staff costs.

36.     The capacity of CDB to appraise and monitor commercial banks’ eligibility to
engage in MSE lending as PFIs. Upon the training by the consultants, CDB created a
microfinance business unit, consisting of three special teams on MSE lending, with one
team specializing in evaluation and monitoring of commercial banks, the other team
specializing in the provision of technical support for PFIs, and the third specializing in
project management. In total, 27 CDB staff worked on the project and provided technical
support to the 12 PFIs.

Component 2: Technical Assistance Facility

37.     Under the framework of this component, the MSE lending technologies were
transferred to PFIs via the work of the PIC consultants who provided technical support on
capacity-building for CDB and PFIs. The technical assistance service was to be provided
for up to two years to the PFIs along with the sub-loan agreement. Two manuals were
compiled by CDB: a Project and Monitoring and Evaluation Manual and the MSE
Lending Operational Manual. CDB selected 12 PFIs for project implementation 7 and it
also participated with the PIC in the provision of technical support to the 12 PFIs. The
TA mentioned above was funded by a grant from KfW and CDB’s own funds. The US$5
million allocated for this component under the Bank loan was not utilized. A crucial
factor that had an impact on the utilization of these funds could have been the mandate by
the Government to commercialize the CDB during implementation. With a new mandate,
CDB was in the process of realigning its strategy for a commercial institution and the
provision of free resources to PFIs was not consistent with its new strategy.

38.      The number of PFIs that adopted and implemented project-related credit
technologies. While only 12 (PFIs) were selected for participation under the credit
facility, the micro-loan technologies introduced by the project have effectively been

7
  From the 18 PFIs identified, CDB determined that 12 were eligible to participate in the program in accordance with
the eligibility criteria.




                                                        12
transferred to and adopted by many more financial institutions such as micro-credit
companies, village and township banks and NGO micro-finance institutions in China,
through the work and words of PFIs and the consultants, many of whom have been
trained by IPC through the project. Thus, even though the anticipated (at appraisal)
number of PFIs (18) was not reached, the results of the PFIs that participated far
exceeded all projected targets as credit technologies spread farther and wider in this
sector than the initial PFI numerical target.

39.     The number of new loan officers trained in the use of the new credit technologies.
Over 1,079 personnel were trained under the auspices of the project, versus the target of
894 projected at appraisal. In addition, 148 back-office staff and over 200 middle-level
managers were also trained. It is worth noting that this was the first wave of trained
personnel; once these apply their experience and interact with their colleagues, the effect
will be multifold.

40.    The number of CDB in-house experts able to provide advisory services to PFIs on
MSE lending. In addition to training of PFI staff, CDB selected 20 internal candidates for
in-house training, who received classroom and on-the-job training.

41.    To date, the project was the first (in the MSE sector) to be set up on a
commercially sustainable basis. There have been other projects in China aimed at
microfinance though not on a commercial basis. The project did not depend on subsidies
for funding in the long-term; but it had an effective system of building up the experience
of MSE finance staff, and it applied credit policies and procedures allowing MSEs which
are without access to formal finance up to now to gain access to it. These were clearly
recorded by the results completed, which are key indicators for sustainable institution-
building measures at the PFIs.

42.     Apart from the potential demand of the MSE credit market in China, the PFIs
appreciated a higher degree of acceptance of the MSE clientele under the project as a
strategically important client base. PFIs understood the need for reforms in their
organizational structures, procedures and the approach to personnel to better address the
requirements for a successful MSE lending strategy, and most importantly they were
willing to implement these changes to make them operational. These financial institutions
were truly committed to the project, and this commitment is reflected in the results
discussed above. Furthermore, the PFIs were willing to accept and carry out institution-
building measures aimed at improving their human resources and credit policies as well
as risk control, staff training, marketing and internal audit capacities.

43.     Another key factor was the single focus on one standardized approach and on
implementing one basic product before attempting to expand to other segments of the
MSE market. This approach enabled the concentration of resources in one activity to
bring about tangible lending results and outreach quickly. In addition, training activities
were well-focused with effective and timely results. All these actions contributed to a
faster acceptance of MSE lending operations as a key banking business instruments and
strategy among concerned institutions and to a faster reception and digestion of the new



                                            13
lending technology. A number of the PFIs also adopted elements of the “new approach?
to other operations of their banks.

44.    Finally, regulatory authorities in China were supportive of the PFIs’ MSE credit
operations and strove to simplify procedures in line with the project’s practices and allow
for PFIs to establish MSE credit operations as a sustainable core business.

3.3     Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

45.     The efficiency of project investment is rated Satisfactory. At appraisal, significant
benefits were expected: (i) facilitation of credit expansion to the private sector; (ii)
improvement in credit market efficiency and quality of credit decisions; (iii)
improvement in credit culture and risk management systems in banks while expanding
outreach; (iv) enabling diversification by PFIs away from lending to state-owned
enterprises and other quasi-governmental entities. Based on these expectations, the
project is considered to be efficient.

46.     Further, consideration for a project’s efficiency should take into account resources
allocated to preparation and supervision over the project’s life of four years. The question
to be asked is whether the Bank, given the benefit of hindsight, would have proceeded
with the MSE Finance project. The answer is that it would: the project initiated a new
venue for MSE lending in China that is now well established and clearly sustainable,
catalyzing the expansion of commercial lending to the emerging segment of MSEs
(competitive and privately owned) in need of funds for working and investment capital.
The results also justified the Bank’s advocacy for commercially sustainable microfinance.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

47.      The project development objectives were successfully achieved. The relevance
and sustainability of the project were confirmed with the continuation of the PFIs and
other financial institutions to provide loans to the MSE sector on a mass-market and a
comercially-sustainable basis and to strengthen institutional and human resources
capacity of the CDB and the participating PFIs. The project merits the “Satisfactory?
rating by fulfilling its development objectives of increasing loans to the MSE sector on a
sustainable basis, improving the quality of its loan portfolio and strengthening the
institutional capacity of the CDB and the PFIs.




                                             14
3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impact, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48.     The project’s impact on poverty was positive as it helped MSEs gain access to
affordable credit. As recognized at appraisal, it is very difficult to measure or assess the
benefits to the population in general, but it is recognized that these would accrue
indirectly. The MSEs with access to credit were able to invest, grow and create (direct
and indirect) employment by expanding their production or services. The technical
assistance program to the PFIs has also support the provision of better banking services,
better management and operations of the financial institutions involved under the project.
With well-organized and efficient PFIs, their customers and businesses would ultimately
benefit from these improvements.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.      The project had a profound impact on the PFIs, bringing about fundamental
institutional changes and strengthening management. PFIs were willing to accept
institution-building measures aimed at improving the PFIs’ human resourses and credit
policy as well as risk control, staff training, marketing and internal audit capacities. The
positive aspects brought about by the project which strengthened PFIs’ operations
included: (i) use of new MSE lending technology, as well as a systematic approach to
micro-lending; (ii) application of MSE lending technology to small business and
agricultural lending by a few PFIs; (iii) introduction of a well-structured and efficient
method in recruitment, training and management of loan officials and other MSE lending
staff, with well-trained and experienced loan officials for MSE lending; (iv) achieving a
significant increase in the MSE lending market share and profits from MSE lending (for
some PFIs this was from a zero base), building up a good foundation for increased bank
competitiveness in the local markets; (v) acquiring a diversified loan portfolio with
reduced credit risk for the bank as a whole; (vi) achieving a good MSE client base, for
which the PFIs provided not only MSE loans, but also deposits and other financial
services; and (vii) establishing a reputation and brand name in MSE lending in the local
markets, with the local governments and the bank regulators.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

50.     The project’s impact went beyond the original project’s objective, mainly in two
aspects. One is that it catalyzed a revolution in thinking and practice in banking
operations in the China's banking system. Before the project, MSEs as compared with
SMEs, were not recognized as an integral component of the enterprise sector in the
nomenclature, but it is now explicitly mentioned on a daily basis. The other is the
demonstration effect that has brought quite a number of additional financial institutions
into the area of lending to MSEs. The Postal Savings Bank, for example, has more than 3
million MSE borrowers, an impressive achievement in outreach even by international
standards.




                                            15
3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

51.     The PFI clients interviewed have been very positive about the project. In addition
to the access to micro-loans enabled by the project, they have been deeply impressed by:
(i) the fast response and services provided by the PFIs on micro-lending; and (ii) the
efficient services provided by loan officials, although in some rare cases there was
lengthy field investigation by loan officials. Overall, the clients clearly preferred a pure
commercial relationship between them and their financial institutions than a personal
relationship with loan officials or managers. They were willing to pay a higher
transparent lending rate of interest instead unknown and hidden costs in the form of
kick-backs, offering of gifts, and banquets, etc. to loan officials and managers.

4.     ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Low

52.     The risk for development outcome is considered Low. As noted, under the credit
line component, funds were fully disbursed and the quality of the sub-loan portfolio was
highly satisfactory. In fact, the contributions to the LOC component from the Borrower’s
(both from CDB and PFIs) side far exceeded the amount projected at appraisal. On the
TA aspect, the PFIs were committed and effectively carried out the agreed programs. The
PFIs rated the TA programs as being highly useful in enhancing their daily activities.

5.     ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

53.     The Bank responded in a timely manner to the need of the Chinese economy by
designing an appropriate project to assist the covering a MSE gap in lending operations in
the financial and private sectors. The Bank incorporated lessons learnt in implementing
LOC operations in other countries to streamline the implementation of the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(Including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54.    The project supervision was Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank team had a high
degree of continuity, with strong support from the country office. With the disbursement
of the US$95 million at the beginning of the project, the Bank team concentrated on
monitoring and supervising due diligence of the PFIs, ensured that the funds reached



                                            16
them through system testing, sampling and visiting selected MSE borrowers. All PFIs
which participated in the lending program were audited each year by the China National
Audit Office with clean audit opinion. In 2009 and 20108, the Bank and CDB jointly
hosted two forums to promote commercially sustainable MSE Finance with participation
from the PFIs, People’s Bank of China, China Banking Regulatory Commission and a
number of commercial banks. The forums were an opportunity for various concerned
players in the micro-finance sector to exchange views on MSE lending strategy and
challenges while facilitating cooperation among various stakeholders. In addition to
project supervision missions, on-going dialogue was also facilitated with frequent
missions by the Bank management to CDB to share the Bank’s knowledge and expertise
in MSE Finance, bringing more added values to this project. Through these missions, the
Bank’s management also encouraged the counterpart to continue the activities agreed in
the project documents. However, the rating took into account the cancellation of the TA
component due to the new developments discussed in paragraph 37. The ICR would
argue that had the TA been used, the results would have been even more fruitful in
building PFIs’ capacity for MSE lending.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

55.    The overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory with an appropriately
designed project to meet the needs of the client, timely responses to the need of the
Borrower and with close supervision of the project involving the Bank management team.
In 2011, the project was chosen as one of the case studies by the FPD Global Practice
Group in the Bank for the Financial Inclusion Practice Launch and also in the Bank’s
dialogue with client countries. 9

5.2      Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

56.     The Borrower worked closely with the Bank throughout project preparation, and
negotiations and its performance was rated Satisfactory. The close collaboration
demonstrated by the Borrower with the Bank during implementation was a primary factor
in the overall success of the project. Another important factor leading to the successful
implementation of this project was the willingness of the government to utilize/mobilize
its own funds to procure technical expertise lacking in-country.


8
  Robert B. Zoellick and his management team, during a visit to China in 2010, participated in a forum entitled
Promoting Commercially Sustainable MSE Finance through Innovative Policy Dialogues and Lending Operations.
9
  World Bank and IFC, China: Enhancing Access to Finance for Underserved Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE) –
MSE Finance Project, Financial & Private Sector Development, MSME Finance Service Line, 2011.




                                                     17
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.      The relevant units in the CDB provided efficient monitoring and reporting,
allowing for better management and implementation of the project and facilitating the
Bank’s supervision activities. The participating PFIs successfully carried out project
activities and improved their capacities in MSE lending. The credit facility of the project
was fully disbursed and the project in general exceeded expectations.

58.     However, it should be noted that during the implementation of the project, the
government directed that CBD become a commercial institution, an event not foreseen in
the project’s program. This external factor affected CDB’s interaction with the project in
many ways. As it was now given a new mandate, it was understandable that it could not
complete the strategy and plans as called for in the project, was uncertain about the
notion of providing free TA to the PFIs as a commercial bank (utilizing loan funds), and
therefore was reluctant to draw down the funds under the TA component. For similar
reasons, the TA facility was not fully utilized10 to continue capacity building of the PFIs.
Implementing Agency performance is thus rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

59.     The overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory. The Borrower
concluded the project successfully in a challenging environment, especially in the
financial sector which had weak financial institutions. The participating PFIs also
implemented their activities successfully and effectively.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

60.    A stable economy that would be conducive for business growth is one of the most
important elements for a line of credit operation.

            i.   From the perspective of the PFIs, it was important to learn first and then adopt
                 later with good understanding. A number of interviewed institutions
                 mentioned that they had adopted an attitude of learning from consultants, but
                 did not make rapid changes to the technologies transferred by the consultants
                 before fully comprehending their implications. It is therefore important for the
                 bank’s top management to have direct dialogue with the consultants to
                 facilitate this process on introducing changes.

           ii.   Management was the key to the successful implementation by the PFIs. It is
                 therefore important for the donors and implementing agency to select suitable

10
     Implementation Performance was rated “Moderately Satisfactory? in the ISR dated June 23, 2011 for similar reasons.




                                                           18
           partner institutions. The selection should be based mainly on the
           understanding and commitment from top management on MSE lending and
           overall management of the bank, rather than focusing solely on the current
           performance of a bank.

61.     The selection of IPC as the project consultant also contributed to project success.
Many PFIs were very impressed by the technique and performance of the IPC consultants
and adopted the methodology in their own operations. To ensure the success of a LOC
operation, it is important that the PFIs have access to good TA (if needed) to provide
them with the tools and procedures necessary to make the LOC a success, as shown under
this project.

62.     External factors could play an important role in a MSE project. In this project, the
two factors are (i) the Government’s decision to make the CBD a commercial institution
and (ii) the effects of the macroeconomic environment in which financial institutions
operate. In the first instance, the government decision altered the role of the
implementing agency with the resulting cancellation of US$5 million under Component 2
as well as non-delivery of a strategic plan which was called for in the project. The strong
performance of the country’s economy, while exerting a positive effect, resulted in
funding availability among the PFIs, which did not have the incentive to borrow from
sub-loan with high funding costs of the CBD that hindered its ability to on-lend to these
PFIs. While the first factor may not be anticipated, the second factor could, in hindsight,
be taking into account at the design stage of the project, as one of the scenarios within
which the project would be implemented.

7.  COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

63.    None


(b) Cofinanciers

64.    None


(c) Other partners and stakeholders

65.    None




                                            19
                   ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                           Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate
                                    (US$ million)                                Appraisal
                                                           (US$ million)
   Component 1 - Line of Credit              699                 3,131.80          448%
   Component 2 - TA programs                  20                    13.18           66%

       Total Project Costs                   719                 3,144.98          437%
    Total Financing Required                 719                 3,144.98          437%



(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                        Type of                                    Percentage of
           Source of Funds                               Estimate      Estimate
                                      Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                       (US$ million) (US$ million)
Borrower                                                  565.22       2996.20         531%
IBRD                                     Loan               100           95           95%
KfW                                    Loan/Grant          53.78        53.78          100%




                                             20
                       ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

1.     Component 1: Credit Facility: The facility was in the amount of US$699
million (at appraisal), funded by a World Bank loan of US$95 million, a KfW loan of
US$50 million and additional financing of US$554 million by the CDB and PFIs. Both
the Bank and KfW loans were fully disbursed and the contributions by the CDB and the
PFIs were US$2,986.8 million equivalent, far exceeding the amount projected at
appraisal. Cumulative disbursement of the project reached US$3,131.8 million equivalent
(as compared to US$699 million projected at appraisal) to approximately 175,908
borrowers (as compared to 119,600 projected at appraisal) by the end of the project.
Some of the key indicators are listed below in Table 1.


                                Table 1: Key Project Indicators
                                     Projected at appraisal
        Key Indicators                 at end of project          Actual at end of project
Number of PFIs                                18                             12
Number of Loan Officers                       894                          1,079
Cumulative Number of                        119,600                       175,908
Borrowers
Level of Non-Performing Loans                <3%                          <0. 7%
Average Sub-loan Size (RMB)                 50,000                        98,332


2.     A field visit to review the performance of six selected PFIs was undertaken in
June 2011. Selected project indicators for these PFIs are shown in Table 2.

                        Table 2: Indicators for the 6 Selected PFIs
                       Loan          %
                      Officials             Branch              Cumulative Disbursement
                                                        Number    %         Amount      %
                                                                            (Million)
Baoshang Bank           658          61.0        45       69,667    39.6       7,875.3    43.4
Taizhou Bank            256          23.7        27       82,409    46.8       8,147.2    44.9
Jiujiang Bank            59           5.5         8        8,697     4.9         681.7     3.8
Guiyang Bank             54           5.0         1        6,054     3.4         684.9     3.8
Maanshan RCB             13           1.2         6        3,964     2.3         311.6     1.7
Daqing Bank              39           3.6         6        5,117     2.9         426.8     2.4
Total                 1,079         100.0        93      175,908   100.0      18,127.5   100.0




                                                21
3.      As mentioned in Section 2.3, by the time the Implementation Status and Results
Report (ISR), Number 3 (06/23/2010) was due, the World Bank’s Financial and Private
Sector Development (FPD) Network had requested a new set of indicators to be
collected. This new set was expected to enhance the effectiveness of projects
implemented. These changes are reflected in Table 3 below:

                          Table 3: Additional Intermediate Outcome Indicators

                                Indicator                    Baseline       As of 30 June 2011

                   Volume of Bank Support: Lines                             US$95,000,000.00
                                                                   ---
                   of Credit: Microfinance
                                                                              US$5,000,000.00
                   Volume of Bank Support:
                                                                           US$5 million TA was
                   Institutional Development                       ---
                                                                          cancelled as CDB used
                   Microfinance
                                                                           its own funds for TA.
                   Number of active loan accounts –                                63,540
                                                                   ---
                   Microfinance
                   Percentage of project-supported
                   institutions (PFIs) that are                   0.00             70
                   reporting on these indicators
                   Outstanding Microfinance Loan                             US$5,716,000,000
                                                                  0.00
                   Portfolio

4.      The commercial viability of the six selected PFIs was demonstrated by the
lending rates charged by the PFIs and the associated costs for providing the sub-loans.
Table 4 shows that the average interest rate charged by the PFIs was around 14.6 percent,
whereas the cost of providing the sub-loans was around 4.9 percent; a profit margin of
about 9.7 percent existed, mainly due to the low cost of funds, low loan-loss provisions
due to the quality of the portfolio and low staff costs.

              Table 4: The Lending Interest Rates and Cost Structure for Micro-loans
                    Made by the 6 PFIs (Unit: Percentage of the Loan Portfolio)
               Interest       Fund           Loan           Staff        Other     Management      Total
               Charged        costs          Loss           costs         Cost     Cost shared     Costs
                                          Provision                      shared
                 (%)          (%)             (%)            (%)           (%)          (%)         (%)
BSB              14.6        1.96         0.48            1.02              0.25                    3.71
BT               11.28       1.99         0.32            0.38              0.18        0.5         3.74
JB               16.2                                                                                011
GB               18          0.7          1               2.28             0.3          1.89        6.17
MRCB             13          1.04         1.224           0.131            0.034        0.999      3.428
DB               12-18       2                            2.7              0.1          1            5.8
Mean             14.6        1.5          0.8             1.3              0.2          1.1          4.9
Source: Field visit report by Enjiang Cheng, June 2011.

5.    Component 2: Technical Assistance Facility: The total cost was estimated at
US$20 million. KfW provided a grant of US$3.78 million equivalent to defray the cost.
11
     JB was unable to provide the data.



                                                           22
The rest of the TA was to be financed by a World Bank loan of US$5 million and
additional funds of US$11.22 million to be provided by the CDB. The CDB was able to
utilize the KfW grant and its own funds of US$9.4 million to cover the TA costs, and as
mentioned in paragraph 37 of the main text, the Bank TA component of US$5 million
was cancelled. The CDB engaged an international consulting firm (IPC) to provide TA to
help build the necessary capacity in the PFIs. The IPC worked with the PFIs to develop
and execute plans for absorbing and applying international best practices and credit
technologies. The new MSE financing departments that were set up under the PFIs were
the main focus for the TA. The TA, among other activities, included assisting the PFIs to
recruit and train new loan officers, strengthen lending policies and procedures and putting
in place accounting, risk management and management information systems, supporting
sub-loan application preparation, screening and decision making, and supporting sub-loan
monitoring and collection.

6.      The TA also combined an IT-based sub-loan and portfolio management software
with intensive training of loan officers. The training component of the credit technology
package enabled the loan officers to: (i) assess creditworthiness and credit risks of MSE
borrowers and to structure sub-loans most appropriate to their needs; (ii) build
relationships with borrowers; and (iii) apply the credit management software for due
diligence on a mass-market, low-cost basis while minimizing arrears and implement a
robust monitoring system. In order for the PFIs to access the TA, the PFIs had to sign a
Technical Cooperation Agreement with CDB.

PFIs Performance

7.       Out of the 12 PFIs, Bank of Taizhou (BT) and Baoshang (BSB) were the two
biggest, accounting for about 83 percent of total loans disbursed and including
approximately 54 percent of the loan officers trained. Details of these two banks’
activities and that of the Maanshan Rural Commercial Bank (MRCB) are shown below.


Bank of Taizhou (BT)
8.      Bank of Taizhou (formerly named Taizhou Commercial Bank). Since the signing
of cooperation agreement with CDB in November 2005, the Bank of Taizhou (BT)
granted 82,409 micro-loans, totaling RMB 8,147 million to 23,820 MSE borrowers. The
average loan size was RMB 98,863. The NPL for micro-credit business was below 1
percent. BT has internalized the MSE lending technologies, models, and philosophy, as
well as defining a non-performing loan (NPL) as a loan that is more than 30 days past
due, in line with the experience of successful international micro-credit practices. By
sticking to the principles of market-oriented and commercialized operations, BT has
established an operational system as well as a unique credit culture that fits the
characteristics of the target micro-credit groups in Taizhou. This has served as a solid
foundation for the sustainable business development of its micro-credit business.
Furthermore, the senior management highly valued the MSE lending technology and has
made an effort to replicate the system across the bank. As such, MSE lending technology
is considered the standard lending technology in BT. With 95 percent of MSE loans


                                            23
granted to rural borrowers, MSE lending is more profitable than the traditional lending
business, demonstrating that lending to MSEs can be profitable and sustainable.

9.      BT has scaled up its operations by increasing its branches in its network from 19
in 2009 to 27 as of December 31, 2010. While BT is in the process of planning to
commercially scale-up its micro-credit operation nationwide, it has experienced some
setbacks due to temporary regulatory constraints on expansion outside the province. Over
the last five years since the project started, BT trained 256 micro-credit loan officers. BT
recently established a MSE training institute. New recruits are required to go through a
six month training, three of which are formal training on the MSE lending technology,
including credit risk thinking. A structured and systematic training approach is of great
significance in BT. BT is equipped with 15 in-house specialized trainers, expected to
increase to 30 by the end of 2011, and 93 part-time trainers.

Baoshang Bank (BSB)

10.    Upon the approval of the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC),
Baotou Commercial Bank was renamed Baoshang Bank (BSB) in September 2007. BSB
has been developing rapidly since its establishment with fast-growing business operations,
and consecutive large increases in both its asset size and its operational profit. The NPL
ratio was less than 1 percent.

11.    On November 23, 2005, BSB signed the Agreement on Micro Credit Project
Cooperation (the Project) with China Development Bank (CDB). Based on the
experience of this cooperation in the project, BSB established an operational system and
a unique credit culture that fit the characteristics of the target micro-credit groups of
China, which were expected to serve as a solid foundation for the sustainable business
development of the BSB micro-credit business.

       (i)     Staff training and team building: BSB established credit officer selection
       and training mechanisms, with established standards, procedures and regulations
       jointly developed by experts of BSB and the project. In terms of team building,
       BSB trained a total 658 micro-credit officers.

       (ii)    Business structure and organization development: At early stages of the
       project cooperation and with assistance and guidance provided by experts and the
       consultant, BSB started to build its micro-credit business team and marketing
       team in Baotao. BSB has increased its branch network from 22 in 2009 to 45 as of
       December 31, 2010.

       (iii) Risk pricing and product design: From the beginning of the project, BSB
       developed a standard micro-credit project, with 18 percent annual interest rate,
       monthly constant installation and maximum maturity of two (2) years. The
       introduction of this product, which was different from the commercial loans based
       on the Central Bank’s interest rates and using bullet repayment, caused a stir in
       the market and among banks. As proved through practice, BSB’s risk pricing and
       product design were highly operable and adaptable. The installment repayment


                                            24
       could also be flexible and adjusted to the client’s business cycle and accounting
       cycle.

       (iv)   Efficient approval procedure and risk management: Under the assistance
       and guidance provided by the project, BSB developed and improved its matrix
       management and differentiated delegation management. With regard to risk
       management, an independent risk management committee was established.
       Meanwhile, the full time micro-credit internal auditors of BSB conducted
       independent internal audits of all the lending teams of all branches.

       (v)    Performance evaluation, incentives and restraints: BSB experimented with
       improving the micro-credit performance evaluation mechanism and approaches.
       The current evaluation mechanism and code of conduct follow the principle of
       “people-focused, efficiency first, and encouragement first.?

       (vi)   Independent accounting and profitability analysis: With assistance and
       guidance from the experts, BSB started annual results-based management for
       business development, staff and organizational development, cost and expenses,
       and revenue and profit.

       (vii) Technological research and development, and theoretical researches on
       micro-credit financial models, schools of philosophies, and advanced experiences
       and practices both in China and abroad. Pilots were conducted and publications
       on micro-credit published.

       (viii) Drawdown capacities of micro-credit: Within the targeted clients as
       identified in the Project Agreement, BSB had provided microcredit to almost all
       sectors (merchandise and trade, processing, manufacturing, transportation,
       logistics, food and beverage, information, community service, culture and
       entertainment, leasing, planting and cultivating, etc). The monthly drawdown
       ceiling had increased from maximum 300 loans per month in 2006 to over 1,000
       loans per month.

12.     The project to a large extent improved internal operation efficiency, and helped to
establish a more independent business management system. BSB managed to develop an
independent and standardized line of products and systems, and to be in line with client
demand and market situation. The project also promoted BSB’s own capacity, especially
in areas such as selection and training of BSB’s own professionals, and capacity to train
management staff with expertise.




                                            25
Maanshan Rural Commercial Bank (MRCB)

13.    The rural credit coops in Maanshan were amalgamated to form the Maanshan
Rural Cooperative Bank in 2005 during the Rural Credit Cooperative (RCC) reform
launched by the State Council in 2003. In July 2009 the name was changed to Maanshan
Rural Commercial Bank (MRCB), together with its corporate image and governance.

14.    By the end of 2010, the bank had disbursed 3,964 MSE loans (defined as loans in
the range of RMB 3,000-300,000) totaling RMB 311 million in amount with NPLs at
1.13 percent. MRCB is the first and only PFI that has successfully replicated the MSE
lending technology to rural lending. It had done so with several innovative adaptations
including:

         To pave the way for rural lending at a time when the rural market was still
        unfamiliar with the MRCB product, the bank rated 2,375 rural households and
        the rating was entered in the bank’s credit administration system as well as
        demonstrated in front of the rural house to inspire the rural borrower to remain
        creditworthy.

         To mitigate the credit and operational risks, a credit officer was equipped with
        three electronic devices. One was a laptop with a proprietary program that
        enabled the credit officer to enter and analyze the borrower information
        efficiently and to present it to the credit committee electronically; another was a
        digital camera that could efficiently photo all the essential evidence, including
        the borrowers themselves, which became part of the loan files; and finally a
        fingerprint-collecting device that served to prevent fraudulent applications (it
        used to be a widespread practice in the rural credit market where loan
        applications were made with borrowed IDs, sometimes in collusion with the
        credit officer).

         To better manage credit risks and to raise efficiency, the bank developed an in-
        house agricultural and rural production information system which captured the
        characteristics of various agricultural and rural economic activities, products and
        sectors. The information enabled the credit officers to quickly make judgments
        about the market and sector risks associated with a loan application within a
        reasonable amount of time

         To make optimal use of the scarce MSE credit officers but also to give play to
        the existing and traditional credit officers, MRCB centralized evaluation of rural
        loans by the specially-trained MSE credit officers at the branch level, leaving
        credit administration to the existing cohort of traditional credit officers.
        Productivity of the rural loans almost doubled that of the MSE loans because of
        this arrangement.

15.    Since its participation in the MSE Finance Project as a PFI, MRCB has conducted
8 rounds of recruitments and enrolled 72 credit officers. Around 90 staff have received
the MSE lending business training, and now 13 of them are working in the MSE division


                                           26
in two branches of the bank. The HR manager clearly indicated that the hiring and
training philosophy and methodology had exerted a big impact on the bank’s HR and
training practices in the non-MSE business areas.

16.      The experiences of MRCB shed important light on what stands behind success.
First, the top executives recognized the critical value of the advisory services provided
under the MSE Finance Project. After the IPC consultants withdrew, the bank hired them
back with its own funding to continue the consultancy services, including developing the
Fast and Easy Small Loans product. All the top executives were required from the outset
to participate in the MSE lending program, including recruitment and training of credit
officers and credit committee meetings. As a result, the management team understood the
workings of the MSE lending program, its philosophy, principles, practices and benefits,
and has collectively become dedicated to mainstreaming it in the bank’s operations. The
initial achievements brought the bank visible benefits, including recognition by the bank
regulatory authority, which paved the way for the bank’s conversion to a rural
commercial bank and local governments’ goodwill, including from the provincial RCC
Union. Those favorable developments in turn served to solidify the bank’s commitment
to continuing on the course of focusing on MSE and rural lending. The experience of the
MRCB has once again proven that commitment from the top is essential for the success
of a downscaling program in MSE lending.




                                           27
      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
        (including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                         28
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Wang Jun                  Senior Financial Sector Specialist   EASFP Task Team Leader (TTL)
David Scott               Adviser                               OPD  Adviser
Johannes Zutt             Country Program Coordinator          EACCQ Country Program Coordinator
Carlos Escudero           Lead Counsel                         LEGEA Legal Counsel
Margaret Png              Senior Counsel                       LEGEA Legal Counsel
Arvind Gupta              Lead PSD Specialist                  EASFP Project Preparation
Shi Jinan                 Senior Procurement Specialist        EAPCO Procurement
Li Haixia                 Financial Management Specialist      EAPFM FM Assessment
Yao Songling              Environmental/ Social Specialist     EASSD Project Preparation
Rochelle Hilton           Consultant                                 Project Preparation
Liu Hui                   Consultant                                 Project Preparation
Sun Limei                 Program Assistant                    EACCF Project Management

Supervision/ICR
Wang Jun                  Lead Financial Sector Specialist     EASFP    Sector Coordinator/TTL
Nancy Chen                Senior Financial Sector Specialist   EASFP    TTL
Hiran Herat               Consultant                           EASFP    ICR
Li Haixia                 Financial Management Specialist      EAPFM    FM Assessment
Aira Htenas               Economist                            EASFP    ICR
Thang-Long Ton            Economist                            EASPR    ICR
Michael Figueroa          Information Assistant                EASFP    Project Management Support

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               USD Thousands
     Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of Staff Weeks     (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                            0.00                       0.00
  FY07                                           29.40                 170,735.59
  FY08                                           11.42                  78,505.87
                          Total:                 40.82                 249,241.46
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                           10.63                  77,553.19
  FY10                                            8.16                  45,327.38
  FY11                                            6.01                  40,869.87
  FY12                                            0.45                  10,166.10
                          Total:                 25.25                 173,916.54




                                            29
      Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                      30
      Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                           (if any)
N/A




                            31
          Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1.      In order to provide loans to micro and small enterprises (“MSEs?) on a mass-market and
commercially-sustainable basis and strengthening the institutional and human resource capacity
of Participating Financial Institutions (“PFIs?) through whom those loans were issued to MSEs,
CDB lauched China Development Bank Microfinance Project (CMFP) in China together with
the World Bank from the end of 2004. The CMFP consists of two closely linked components: a
Credit Facility for on-lending to eligible PFIs and a Technical Assistance Facility to support
capacity building in PFIs.

2.      Over the course of the CMFP, 12 city commercial banks received technical assistance
supported by IPC (Internationale Projekt Consult GmbH), the project consultant. While the pilot
banks, Baotou City Commercial Bank (BCB–now Baoshang Bank) and Taizhou City
Commercial Bank (TCB–now Taizhou Bank), benefited from approximately one and a half years
of daily on-location assistance from the end of 2005, subsequent partner financial institutions
received 12 months or less of daily on-location assistance. Although this presented challenges to
CDB in implementation and personnel allocation, and especially more preparation and intensive
involvement were required from the PFI, the fundamental approach stayed the same in principle,
as experience to date and the situation had shown that the approach is suitable for the Chinese
environment. Through serious evaluation, 6 of those 12 PFIs had also received RMB 1,149
million in long-term on-lending credit from CDB.

3.      The project has performed well in terms of the number of MSE borrowers and the loan
officials trained. Over the five years, the PFIs have trained more loan officials (including back-
office and MSE management staff) and provided MSE loans to more borrowers than those
targets set at the project agreement. By the end of 2010, for the 6 PFIs only, who had gotten
long-term on-lending credit from CDB, more than 1,000 loan officials were trained, in addition,
148 back office staff and 203 middle level managers were trained. Over 175,908 MSE loans
were provided in over RMB 18 billion through 85 outlets.

4.      These PFIs have also expressed interest not only in expanding basic micro-lending
operations, but also in receiving support on broadening the product range and in developing the
expertise for other areas, such as “small? and “agro? lending. All results achieved to date clearly
indicate that there is a huge demand for MSE lending in China, that Chinese financial institutions
have recognized the potential of MSE as a commercially viable business, are willing to embrace
necessary change, and that the technology–implementing a cash-flow based lending technology
through intensive capacity and institution building in commercial banks–works in China.

5.     The quality of MSE loans disbursed by the PFIs has been consistently excellent. The
percentage of the loans overdue for over 30 days has been lower than 0.7 per cent of the total
loan portfolio, which is well below 3 per cent of the portfolio set at the PAD stage.

6.      A number of bank leaders pointed out to the mission that what they have gained most
from the project is a change in their understanding and approach to the overall lending operation,
traning and management of loan officials and middle level managers, which has been much more



                                                32
important than introducing a lending methodology alone.

7.     The project has also impacted the micro-finance industry in China. The micro-loan
technologies and management introduced by the project have been transferred to more and more
microfinance instituions in China through the work and words of PFIs and the consultants, many
of whom have been trained through the project.

8.      In addition to the city and rural commercial banks, many MCCs and VTBs have also
received similar technical support in micro-loans closely related to the project. A number of
project consultants have been employed by the banks as high-level or middle-level managers in
charge of MSE lending operation, such as Taizhou Bank and Quanjing Commercial Bank. It is
expected that more city and rural commercial banks and other MFIs will follow suit, following
the deepening of financial reforms in China.

9.      At the national level, the project indicates strongly that micro-loans to urban and semi
rural micro-entrepreneurs and small enterprises in China can be provided in a commercially
sustainable way. By evaluation and in comparison to other downscaling projects, the CMFP has
not only achieved results as stated in the PAD, but also surpassed any other IPC downscaling
project implemented to date within the same time frame. Apart from the immense potential MSE
credit market in China, the success of the project can be attributed to a number of factors.

10.      The project success should be attributed firstly to the timing of the project and market-
oriented reforms in rural finance and microfinance undertaken by the Chinese prior to the
introduction of the project. Since the middle and late 1990s, the government and bank regulators
have initated market-oriented reforms, such as commercialization of state-owned commercial
banks and reforms of urban and rural credit cooperatives, partial interest rate liberalization and
opening up of the market for competition, etc. These reforms made commercial microfinance
possible in China. The major contribution from CDB/World Bank/KfW is that these project
institutions had promoted and initiated the project at the right time, a time when commercial
microfinance was made possible in China and a time when the Chinese Government was anxious
to support the development of small and micro-enterprises in China. Next, the World Bank and
CDB have selected mainly city commercial banks as the partner institutions, based on the
judgement that it is more likely for these banks to support MSEs in China. Thirdly, selection of
IPC as the project consultant has also contributed to the project success. Last but not least, the
regulatory authorities in China, inclduing CBRC and PBC, have been supportive of the PFIs’
MSE lending and willing to accept or tolerate some micro-lending practices by the PFIs which
were not entirely consistent with the current lending regulations.




                                               33
      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                     34
                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Micro and Small Enterprise Finance Project Appraisal Document, Report No: 36170-CN,
   May 2007.

2. Project Aides Memoire, ISRs, FMRs, and various other documents.

3. Financial Reports for Implementing Agencies and PFIs.

4. Financial Management Assessment and Procurement Assessment Reports.

5. Enjiang Cheng, “Micro and Small Enterprise Finance Project (Implemented by China
   Development Bank) Project Completion Evaluation Report (Revised),? September 2011.

6. Operations Manual.

7. The World Bank, “Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for
   the Period 2006 – 2010,? Report No: 35435, The World Bank, Washington, D.C., May
   2006.




                                         35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To Chita
                                                                                     80°E                             90°E                                            100°E                                110°E                                120°E                                 130°E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       He
                                                                                                                     RUSSIAN FEDERATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ilo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J ian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chita

                                                                                 KAZAKHSTAN
                                                      CHINA                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Qiqihar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Harbin
                                                                                                                                                                   MO NGO LIA
                                                                         To
                                                                       Bishkek
                40°                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                   N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Changchun
                                                                                                    Urumqi                                                                                          Ulaanbaatar
                                                              To                                                                                                                                                                                                                J I L I N
                                          To                Bishkek
                       TAJ             Dushanbe
                           IK   IST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Shenyang
                                   A                    Kashi                                                                                                                                                                                                      LIAON IN G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LI AONI NG               DEM.               40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                   OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Anshan       PEOPLE'S
                                      N




                                                                                                                                                                                               NG                                                                                          REP. OF         Sea of
                                                                           X I N J I A N G                                                                                                  MO           Hohhot
                                                                                                                                                                                       NE
                                                                                                                                                                                          I        Baotou                             BEIJING                                              KOREA           Japan
                AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                                    Hua
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ng He                               BEIJING    Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tianjin Hai          Dalian
                                        To
                                       Mardan                                                                                                                                                                                         H E B E I TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yinchuan                              Shijiazhuang                                            REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Taiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Jinan                                           KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                               IA
                           This map was produced by




                                                                                                                                                                                           NINGX
                           the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                       Xining                                    SHANXI                                          Qingdao
                PAKISTAN   World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                               Lanzhou                                                                                    Yellow
                           colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANDONG
                           any other information shown
                                                                                                                             QINGHAI                                                                                                                                             Sea
                           on this map do not imply, on                                                                          To                                                                                                   Zhengzhou                                                            JAPAN
                30°                                                              X I Z A N G                                       ng                                                                                 Luoyang
                   N       the part of The World Bank                                                                                   t                                       G A N SU              Xi'an                                                 JIANGSU

                                                                                                                                    ia n
                           Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                            Huang He                                                  HENAN
                                                                                                                                       n
                           legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                           SHAANXI
                           or any endorsement or
                           acceptance of such
                           boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hefei              Nanjing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shanghai                           30°N
                                                                                                                     Nu                                                                                                                                                    SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AN HU I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANH UI
                       0               300 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                      HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                        Jin
                                                                                                                                                        Jinsha
                                                                                                                                                        Jin       SICHUAN                                         Chang Jiang                                            Hangzhou                 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                             Lhasa                                                                                                                         Wuhan




                                                                                                                                                                                                          IN
                                                                                                                                            La



                                                                                                                                                                                        Chengdu
                                                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                               n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 China




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Q
                                               INDIA
                                                                                                                                             ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                       NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZHEJIANG
                                                                      NEPAL
                                                                                                                                                ng




                       0        100     200       300 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                    CH
                                                   80°E                                                                                                                                             Chongqing                                      Nanchang
                                                                                 To
                                                                                 Nepalganj                                                                                                                                             Changsha
                                                                                                To BHUTAN                                                                                                            HU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HU N AN
                                                                                                Munger                                                                                                                                      IANG XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J IAN GXI
                                                                      C HI N A                                                                                                                   UIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                               G UIZ HOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Guiyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F U J I A N Fuzhou


                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                         Kunming
                                                                                             BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                                                      TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TAIWA
                                                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                              GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                         YUNNAN                                      G U A N G X I
                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                              Xun       Guangzhou
                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                             MYANMAR




                                                                  RIVERS                                              Mandalay                                                                                Nanning                        HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MACAO                                                                20°N
                                                                  MAIN ROADS0°N
                                                                           2                                         MYANMAR                                                     VIETNAM
                                                                  RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                       LAO
NOVEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Haikou
                                                                                                                                                     PEOPLE'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 33387
                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                  DEM.                                                   HAINAN
                                                                                                                                            THAILAND                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHILIPPINES
                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                             REP.                                     Da Nang
                                                                                             90°E                                                      100°E                                                         110°E                                                      120°E
