                                                  Document of
                                               The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                         ReportNo: 36170 CN  -




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                         FOR A PROPOSED LOAN

                                INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$lOOMILLION

                               TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                     FOR A

                     MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT



                                                 May 19,2007




Financial and Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (ExchangeRateEffectiveNovember 21,2006)
              CurrencyUnit RMB 1.OO       = US$O.1
                                  US$l = RMB7.9


                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAP    Correctiveaction plan
CAS    CountryAssistance Strategy
CBRC   ChinaBankingRegulatory Commission
CCB    City CommercialBank
CDB    ChinaDevelopment Bank
CNAO   ChinaNationalAudit Office
CPS    CountryPartnershipStrategy
FMR    FinancialManagement Report
FSL    Fixed Spread Loan
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC    InternationalFinanceCorporation
KfW    Kreditanstaltfuer Wiederaufbau
MBU    MSEBusiness Unit
MCT    MSECore Team
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MSE    Micro and Small Enterprise
MSME   Micro, Small and MediumEnterprise
NGO    Non-GovernmentalOrganization
NPL    Non-PerformingLoans
OM     Operational Manual
PBC    People's Bank of China
PFI    ParticipatingFinancialInstitution
PIC    Project ImplementationConsultant
PSRB   Postal Savings and RemittanceBureau
RCB    RuralCommercialBank
SCB    State-ownedCommercialBank
SA     Special Account
SME    Smalland MediumEnterprise
       Statementof Expenditure
ucc
SOE
       UrbanCredit Cooperative

                         Vice President:       James W. Adams
             Country ManagedDirector:          DavidDollar
                        Sector Manager:        Tunc TahsinUyanik
                     Task Team Leader:         Jun Wang

                                                                                                                           FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                   CHINA
                                 Micro and SmallEnterpriseFinance Project

                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS



  A  .   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             ..................................................................Page1
                                                       ............................................................................................. 1 .
      2.
      1.   COUNTRY AND SECTOR ISSUES
                                                                    ................................................................................. 2
      3.   RATIONALE FOR BANKINVOLVEMENT
           HIGHER  LEVEL OBJECTIVES TO WHICH THE PROJECT CONTRIBUTES                                                ...................................... 3
  B  .   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      ..................................................................................................       3
                                          ......................................................................................................... 3
      2.
      1.   LENDING  INSTRUMENT

        .  PROJECTDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY INDICATORS ...................................................                                             3
           PROJECTCOMPONENTS               .........................................................................................................       4
      4.
      3
                                                                                                          ...............................................
      5.   LESSONS  LEARNED AND REFLECTED INTHE PROJECT DESIGN                                                                                             6
           ALTERNATIVES       CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION                                      ................................................ 8
  C  .   IMPLEMENTATION                 ...........................................................................................................        9

      2.
      1.   PARTNERSHIP ARRANGEMENTS............................................................................................. 9
           INSTITUTIONAL      AND IMPLEMENTATION                      ARRANGEMENTS                 ..................................................... 9
      3 .  MONITORING EVALUATIONOF OUTCOMES/RESULTS ...................................................
                           AND                                                                                                                            10
      4.   SUSTAINABILITY       ................................................................................................................. 11
      5.   CRITICAL RISKS AND POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS                                        ..................................................    12
      6.   LOAN/CREDIT     CONDITIONS AND COVENANTS                           ......................................................................      13
  D  .   APPRAISAL SUMMARY                     ..................................................................................................         14

      2.
      1.   ECONOMICAND FINANCIAL ANALYSES ............................................................................... 14

      3.   TECHNICAL.........................................................................................................................             14
           FIDUCIARY.........................................................................................................................             15
      4 .
      5.   SOCIAL ...............................................................................................................................         15
           ENVIRONMENT                                                                                                                                    15
           SAFEGUARDPOLICIES .........................................................................................................
                              ...................................................................................................................
      6.                                                                                                                                                  16
      7.   POLICYEXCEPTIONS READINESS  AND                         ................................................................................       16


  ANNEX 1: COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND                                                       ......................................................     17
  ANNEX 2: MAJOR RELATED PROJECTSFINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR
  OTHER AGENCIES              ...................................................................................................................         22
  ANNEX 3: RESULTSFRAMEWORK AND MONITORING                                                              ..............................................    24
  ANNEX 4: DETAILED PROJECTDESCRIPTION                                                 ..............................................................     27
  ANNEX 5: PROJECT COSTS                      ...................................................................................................         46
  ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS                                                      ..........................................................     48
  ANNEX 7: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS53




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS                                        ................................................................     62
ANNEX 9: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                            ......................................................    65
ANNEX 10: SAFEGUARD POLICY ISSUES                               .........................................................................     69
ANNEX 11: PROJECT PREPARATION AND SUPERVISION                                                    ...........................................  70
ANNEX 12: DOCUMENTS INTHE PROJECT FILE                                         ...........................................................    72
ANNEX 13: STATEMENT OF LOANSAND CREDITS                                            .......................................................    73
ANNEX 14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                          .................................................................................      78
ANNEX 15: MAP.........................................................................................................................        SO




                                                                                                                                            ..
                                                                                                                                            11

                                                     CHINA
                      MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
                                   PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                                         EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
                                                     EASFP

Date: May 22, 2007                                          Team Leader: Jun Wang
Country Director: David R. Dollar                           Sectors: MSEFinance
Sector ManagedDirector: Tunc Uyanik                          (90"/0); Banking (10%)
                                                            Themes: Small andmediumenterprise support
                                                            (PI
Project ID: PO96285                                        Environmental screening category: Financial
                                                           Intermediary Assessment
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary
Loan
                                           Project FinancingData
[XI Loan       [ ] Credit      [ ] Grant     [ 3 Guarantee        [ 3 Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 100.00
Proposedterms: The loan i s payablein 17years, including 4 years grace period.


Project Cost By Component                    W B              KfW             CDB and PFI         Total
                                             US$million       US$million      US$ million         US$ million

Component 1:
         Credit Facility                         95               50             554                 699
Component2
         TA Facility                              5                3.78           11.22               20
OperatingCosts                                                                     4.75                4.75

Total Project Costs                                                                                  723.75*
Front-end Fee                                   N A                                                  N A
Total Financing Required                                                                             723.75
* This project cost consists two components: a Credit Facility and a TA Facility. The cost o f the Credit Facility i s
projectedbased on the aggregate MSE subloan portfolio by all the PFIs which is estimatedto be RMB5519 million,
or US$699 million, at the end of the project.
Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, West District
Beijing, 100820
Tel: 86-10-6855 1124Fax: 86-10-68551125
jk.w@mof,gov.cn

ResponsibleAgency:
China Development Bank
No29 Fuchengmenwai Street

                                                                                                                      ...
                                                                                                                      111

West District
Beijing
China
100037
Tel: 86-10-6830 7209 Fax: 86-10-68307214
tanbo@Jcdb.corn.cn

                           Estimateddisbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
year                              2006                       2007                    2008
parter                   Q1    Q2     43     Q4     Q1    Q2     Q3    4 4  Q1    4 2    43   Q4
volume of newly
jisbursed loans (in RMB
nillions)                   6   25      68     69   120   140    180   240  300    370    450 550
volume of newly
jisbursed loans (in US$
ni11ions)                   1     3      9      9    15     18    23     30  38     47     57  70
jisbursement of WB
loans (in US$millions)                                                   44         56
          credit                          KfW loan                      42          53
           TA                            KfWgrant                         2          3




Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref: PAD D.7                                                                      [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                       [[ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                     ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref: PAD C.5                                                                      [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref: PAD D.7                                                                      [XIYes [ ] N o

Project developmentobjective Ref: PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The objective o f the MSE Finance Project is to expand credit flows to MSEson a mass-market
and commercially sustainable basis. It aims to do so by strengtheningthe institutional and
human resources capacity o f project implementingentity (CDB) and the PFIs.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref: PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
The project will establish CDB as an MSEfinance wholesaler engaged inlendingto, and
arranging technical support for, PFIs engaged in MSE lending. The project consists of two
closely linked components: (i) a Credit Facility o f US$95 million for on-lending to eligible
PFIs; and (ii)Technical Assistance (TA) Facility o f US$5 million to support capacity building
                 a
and MSE subloan administration inthe PFIs.




                                                                                              iv

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Environment Assessment
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Board presentation:
None
Loadcredit effectiveness:
The Project ImplementingEntity has adopted the OperationalManual inaccordance with
Section I,B.2 o f the Schedule to the Project Agreement and ina manner and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
        The PIE shall maintain, throughout the period o f implementation ofthe Project and with
        terms o f reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, the MSE
        BusinessUnit("Ml31J") headedby a Director-General and assistedby teams responsible
        for: (a) PFI selection and monitoring; (b) MSE finance advisory services; and (c) project
        management and administration. The MBUshall be responsible for the overall
        coordination and implementation o f Project activities.
        The PIE shall adopt an operational manual ("Operational Manual"), satisfactory to the
        Bank, which shall include: (i)criteria and procedures for the selection o f PFIs; (ii)
        samples o f the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Technical CooperationAgreement,
        which agreements will include criteria and procedures for the selection o f MSEsand Sub-
       projects; (iii) procurement procedures inaccordance with the Bank guidelines;
        (iv) monitoring and reporting requirementsand financial management procedures,
        including audit procedures; and (v) the Environmental Assessment Framework;
        The PIE shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part o fthe Operational Manual,
       without the prior approval o fthe Bank.
        For purposes o f carrying out Part 2 o f the Project, the PIE shall enter into a Technical
        CooperationAgreement ("TCA") with each PFI inaccordance with the Operational
        Manual and shall take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, for the effective and
       timely implementation by the PFI o f its obligations under the TCA.
        For purposes o f implementingPart 2 o f the Project, during the period o f implementation
       of the Project and untilthe Bank has confirmed that the PIE has sufficient capacity, the
       PIE shall engage and retain the services o f consultants, under terms o f reference
       satisfactory to the Bank, to provide technical assistanceto strengthen the institutional and
       human resource capacity o f the PIE and PFIs inthe provision o f financial services to
       MSEs.
       The PIE shall take all prudent and timely measures necessary to protect against the risk o f
       loss resulting from either (a) changes inthe exchange and interest rate environment; or
       (b) from developments inPFIs that increase the PIE'Srisk exposure to such PFIs.
       B y January 1, 2008, the PIE shall furnish the following strategy and plans, prepared in
       accordance with terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank and thereafter, implementsaid
       strategy and plans, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon: (a) an updated
       strategy and business plan with respect to Part 1 o f the Project; and (b) an updated
       procurement planthe implementationof Part 2 o f the Project. Said strategy and plans
       may be updatedwith the agreement o f the Bank.




                                                                                                   V


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

1.       Despite spectacular achievements, China is confronted with many challenges in
maintaining sustainable economic growth, protecting the natural resources and
environment; and addressing the rising economic, social and regional inequalities. To
meet these challenges, China needsto diversify the sources o f economic growth andraise
the efficiency of resource allocation, preferablyto those that contribute to employment
without exerting undue pressureon the already strained environment and heavy demands
on natural resources. One potential source for growth i s micro, small and medium
enterprises (MSMEs),which have contributed importantly to GDP growth, job creation
and export earnings.

2.       Within the MSMEsector, micro and small enterprises (MSEs)will play an
indispensable role inmeetingthese challenges. Promoting MSEs, the majority o f which
are privately owned, i s a government priority inthe drive to build a well-off and
harmonious society. While MSMEs as a whole remain credit constrained, it is the MSEs
that have over time become the forgotten segment. Banks have tended to consider
enterprises inthe upper end o f the SMEs as bankable, and microfinance (especially inthe
rural area) has at least receivedattention from NGOs and donors.

3.       The reasonsbehind the lack o f accessto finance by MSEsare numerous and
complex. One i s that Government officials and banks in China share an entrenched
perception that lendingto MSEsi s inherently risky, inpart because past attempts at
reaching out to MSEsresultedinunacceptably highlosses by banks. Another i s a long-
standing credit culture biased towards collateral and guarantees. Lacking the ability to
process the soft information that i s characteristic o f MSEs,banks rely heavily on
collateral and credit guarantees. Regulatory policies also perpetuated this tendency to
insist on collateral and guarantee arrangements as non-secured lendingwas discouraged.
As most MSEsdo not possessthe kindo f collateral requiredby banks and have difficulty
arranging for guarantees, MSE lendingbecame either an impossible or extremely costly
proposition.

4.       Evidence from a number o f countries indicates that a diversifiedportfolio o f MSE
loans can often be less risky than a concentration o f large loans,' The persistence o f the
misperceptions in China risks both underminingappropriate policy decisions and
skewingthe design o f government interventions to promote access by MSEsto the
capital necessary to grow, create newjobs and improve incomes.2




IAs an example, the EBRD small business program, as well as the Procredit Banks in Europeand Central
Asia, have built an impressivetrack record of lendingto small businesseswith low delinquency, default
and loss rates.
2Additional areas that require attention include overhauling and expandingthe existingcredit information
registry system, various loan guarantee schemes and institutions,and various subsidized lendingprograms.


                                                                                                        1

5.       China faces a related challenge to commercialize the banking system.
Commercializing the banking system will also require that banks differentiate themselves
strategically. Most banks pursue lending to large and state-affiliated firms and the
intense competition has led to under-pricing o f credit risk ingeneral. Inthe past in
response to political calls to serve the SMEs, banks tended to apply the same corporate
lending techniques to micro and small lending, only to find their non-performing loans on
the rise, which served to further entrench the notionthat MSElendingwas risky. The
overemphasis on collateral constrains the availability o f credit to MSEswhich cannot
meet banks' and supervisors' collateralrequirements, regardless o f whether their cash-
flow i s adequateto service bank loans at commercial rates o f interest. Increased
competition resultingfrom financial liberalizationis expected to pushmany banks
towards the lower end o f the market. Thus, MSElendingcould serve as a key component
o f new business strategies for many banks in China. But to be successful, they needto
adopt lendingtechnologies more suitedto MSEs.

6.       Inrecent years, financial sector reform has progressed considerably, and banks
have become more commercially oriented. Bank supervision and financial policies have
also improved. Lending interest rates have beenlargely liberalized, and banks are now
encouraged by the authorities to lendto small businesses. Despitethe progress, banks
lendingto MSEsremainunderdeveloped.

7.       Inline with the priority the Government attaches to MSEdevelopment, it is
important to launch an MSE lending and bank capacity buildingproject aimed at
improving access to finance by the MSEs inChina, adopting tried and tested technique^.^
It is also important to imbedthese practices and approach inan institutional framework
that can enable eventual nationwide rollout and scaling up. The proposedproject will
provide this vehicle and attempt to address the above constraints to MSE finance. At the
same time, it will contribute to reinforcing the Government's policy objective of
encouraging flows o f funds to emerging private entrepreneurs and small enterprises. The
Government therefore attaches a highpriority to the project.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

8.       The proposed project has developed from the Bank's financial sector work
program, designed to assist China inreform and development o f the financial sector (See
Box 2, Annex 1). Bank's advocacy for commercially sustainable microfinance has been
an integral part o f this program. Furthermore, through deep engagement and continued
dialogue with the authorities, the Bank has established substantial credibility and i s
ideally placedto play a major role in supporting a specific operation to promote bank
lending to MSEs. The Bank's involvement inthe proposed project will further advance
work inthis area. Through the project the Bank will helpdevelop an appropriate
mechanism for channeling funds; ensure access to highquality technical expertise;


 Over the last decade a large number of multilateraldonors, NGOs and quasi-officialinstitutionshave
been operatingpilotsto promote access to credit, mostlyby poorhouseholdsbut also MSEs. These
programshave experienceda range of outcomesinterms ofrepaymentrates. Few, ifany, haveproven
commerciallysustainable and none is scaleable.


                                                                                                    2

continue to engage relevant stakeholdersinthe policy dialogue necessary to create an
increasingly facilitative regulatory environment; and work with partnersto ensure
adequate monitoring, evaluation and propagation of the learning and experiencesinherent
inthe project.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

9.      The proposedproject will support the Government's priority program to catalyze
the expansion ofcommercial lending to the emerging segment of MSEsthat are strongly
competitive and privately owned, but inneed of funds for working and investment capital.
The project also aims to strengthenthe capacity of banks to provide lending to MSEs on a
mass-marketand profitable basis. The ultimate objective is to promote expansion of
private sector MSEs across China, andthe potential resulting increases injob creation,
income growth, and poverty reduction.

10.     These objectives are fully consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy for
2006-2010, Report No. 35435, discussedby the Board on May 23,2006. The proposed
project will contribute to Pillar 4 o f this strategy:Jinancing sustained and efficient growth.
Specifically it will contribute to deepeningfinancial intermediation by expanding access
to financial services, through the establishment o f a sustainablemechanismof financing
for MSEs. By improvingaccess to financial services for this fast growing segment of the
economy, the project will play a role inhelping the MSEs build assets and increase
incomes, thus contributing to employment generationand hence poverty reduction.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

11.     The Bank financial product chosenfor the project i s a fixed spread loan (FSL),
with a term of 17 years, including a grace period of up to 4 years. The Bank loan will be
passedthrough the MOF to CDB, on the same terms and conditions. CDB will provide
long-term lines of credit to eligibleparticipatingfinancial institutions (PFIs) for on-
lending to MSEs.

12.     MOF's decision to choose this product is basedon CDB's preferences and asset-
liability management strategies.

2. Projectdevelopment objective and key indicators

13.     The project developmentobjective is to expandcreditflows to MSEs on a mass-
market and commercially sustainable basis. It aims to help CDB develop a new business
line involvingwholesaling of MSE subsidiary loans andprovision of related technical
support to PFIs; and helpthe PFIs build up a high quality MSE loan portfolio based on
credit technologiesthat have beendeveloped and validated under successful micro and
small loan programs intransition economies, introduced through a downscaling approach
to microfinance (See Box 4, Annex 4). Through this support, the project aims to help



                                                                                            3

introduce into China international best practices for providing efficient financial services
to MSEs. As part of this effort, by strengtheningthe institutional and humanresource
capacity of PFIs, it will contribute to laying the foundation for progressive, nationwide
scaling-up o f commercially sustainable MSE financial services.

14.     Specific outcome and results indicators for the project are expected to include: (i)
the increase inthe numberof loans to MSEs;(ii) portfolio quality (percentage of
                                                    the
overdue repayments on loans); (iii)   the profitability of MSEsina treatment group
compared with a control group; (iv) the capacity o f CDB to appraise and monitor
commercial banks eligibility to engage inMSE lending as PFIs; (v) the number o f MSE
borrowers; (vi) the average size o f the MSE subloans; (vii) the number o f PFIs that adopt
and implement the project-related credit technologies; and (viii) the number o f CDB in-
house experts able to provide advisory services to PFIs on MSE lending; and (ix) the
numberof new loan officers trained inthe use ofthe new credit technologies (see Annex
3).

3. Projectcomponents

15.     The project envisages a two-tier structure consisting o f wholesale and retail
operations. CDB has beenchosen to be the wholesaler for this project and will engage in
lendingto, and arrangingtechnical support for, PFIs that are engaged inMSElending
operations at the retail level (See Section 5 and Annex 4 for the reasons why CDB was
chosen). PFIs as retailers will initially be selected from a pool o f city commercial banks
(CCBs). This pool could subsequentlybe expanded to include nationwide banks, credit
cooperatives, rural cooperative/commercial banks, and other credit institutions.

16.     To this end, the project consists o f two closely linkedcomponents: (i)      a Credit
Facility for on-lending to eligible PFIs; and (ii)Technical Assistance Facility to support
                                                   a
capacity building inthe CDB and PFIs.

Component 1: Credit Facility (US$699million).

17.     This facility is expected to cover the projectedtotal project costs of US$699
million, which will be financed by a loan o f US$95 million from the Bank, a loan o f US$
50 million from KfW,4and additional funding o f US$ 554 million by CDB and PFIs.
Under this Component, CDB will provide medium-to long-term subsidiary loans, with
maturity up to10 years including a grace period up to 5 years, to PFIs indomestic
currency. The PFIs will on-lend the funds to MSEs, on commercial terms and with a
maturity not exceeding three years. CDB will assume the full credit risk on the PFIs and
the currency risk on the Bank loan. CDB will not lenddirectly to MSEs.

18.     CDB has already prepared andreviewedan initial list o f potential PFIs. It has
enteredtechnical cooperation agreements(TCAs) and subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs)
with 5 PFIs, three o f which have embarked on MSE lendingunder the project, and

4The KfW finding agreements on boththe loan andthe TA grant were signed in September 2006 and have
become effective.


                                                                                                4

selected 3 more PFIs before the end of 2006 and plans to select an additional 4 by the end
of the 2007. Additional PFIs are expectedto be added insubsequent years (for specific
number of PFIs see Annex 3). Selectioncriteria for the PFIs have beendevelopedand
tested with assistance from the Bank, andthe adoptedcriteria will form part of the
OperationsManual. (SeeAnnex 4for more details on selection criteria and eligibility
requirements.) PFIs that meet the criteria in full will be eligible for immediate
participation inthe project. PFIs that need further operational and financial strengthening
may be able to participate following agreementto and compliance with atime-bound
corrective action plan(CAP). The CAP will be agreedupon betweenCDB and the PFI
and will be subjectto the Bank's review.

19.      Eligible MSEswill be majority private sector owned and operated, active
primarily in services and trade, but also inman~facturing.~             Subloans for working capital
and investment will range from RMB 100to RMB 500,000. This upper limit may be
increasedto RMB 1million, subject to the prior agreement of the Bank, inselected
regions where income levels are higher than the national average. The average size of the
MSEloans will be around RMB 50,000, and consideration will be given to link the
average size to the local per capital GNP for it to reflect regional differences inloan
demands.

20.      The subsidiary loan interest rates chargedto PFIs will be determinedbased on
CDB's costs of funding and its credit rating of the PFIs. At a minimum,these will be
positive inreal terms and provide rates of returnclose to CDB's current returnon average
loan assets. At presentthe rates are linked to PBC's base lending rate. The PFIs will
determineMSE subloan interest rates. These rates will cover the PFI's cost of borrowing
and operational expenses, plus a reasonablerisk-adjustedspread and a decent profit
margin. The interest rate will be set as an integral part of product design and will be
determined with the assistance of the project implementationconsultant (PIC). No credit
subsidiesor government-sponsoredguarantee programs are envisagedunder this project.

Component2: TechnicalAssistance Facility (US$20 million).

21,      The total TA costs are estimated at US$ 20 million. KfW has provided 3 million
Euros, or US$ 3.78 million equivalent, to defray the TA cost. The rest TA cost will be
financed by a loan of US$5 million from the Bank and additional US$ 11.22 million
from CDB, ifnecessary.The actual cost may be variable dependingon the duration of
engagement of PIC. This component will provide specializedand comprehensive
technical assistance to the PFIs to strengthentheir institutional capacity and skills to
effectively engage inMSE lending. An internationally recruited PIC has already been
contractedfor this purpose.6 Under the overall management of the CDB, the PIC has
been assisting increating MSE lending departments ineach PFI and inthe adoption and


  Majority private ownership in this project is defined as more than 50% of equity held by private investors.
6 The project implementation consultant, which has an establishedtrack record of developing and growing
MSE institutions and loan portfolios in a number of transition economies, took up their assignment in
February2006. Procurementwas carried out in line with Bank procedures(using the QBS method) and
retroactive financing will be neededto cover these start-up costs.


                                                                                                           5

application o f international best practices and lending technologies/processes that have
beensuccessfully deployed inother countries.

22.     To benefit from the TA Facility, the PFIs will be required to enter into Technical
Cooperation Agreements(TCA) with CDB. Under such agreements, CDB, with the
assistance o f the PIC, provides TA to the PFIs free o f charge for up to two years.
Thereafter, if continued TA support is needed, CDB and the PFIs would agree on
appropriate cost sharing arrangements. The PFIs will have access to the Credit Facility
only ifthey enter into such TCA with CDB since the success o f the Credit Facility
depends on the application o f modern MSElendingtechnologies and risk control
procedures.

23.     This component also includes a provision for additional advisory services for
CDB to strengthen its MSE business line, including its skills for commercial bank
appraisal, assessment and monitoring, and building up its in-house advisory capacity for
MSElending, as well as other purposes relatingto the project objectives.

24.     Unutilized funds inthis component will be usedto augment the Credit Facility for
on-lending to MSEs, vice versa.

4. Lessons learned and reflectedin the projectdesign

25.     Lessons learned from lines o f credit inChina and other countries that have been
taken into account inthe design o f this project include the following:

      Weak borrower accountability and management capacity have contributed to
      unsuccessful projects in China and other countries. Inprevious lines of credit in
      China, intermediation through government agencies has not beensuccessful inpart
      becausethese entities lack the appropriate institutional and operational capacity.
      Importantly, they do not have the appropriate financial sector skills or incentives
      framework to support lendingactivities. CDB has been assigned clear
      responsibility and full accountability for project implementation. It has strong
      management capacity. Furthermore, the project i s fully in line with CDB's
      development objectives and overall strategy as a prominent development finance
      institution.

     Attention needs to bepaid to the use of sound eligibility criteria that meet Bank
     guidelines in selecting and monitoring thefinancial intermediaries to ensure their
     Jinancial and operational quality. Drawing on lessons learned from past LOC
     projects in China, inwhich the Bank's diligence tended to stop with the first-tier
     financial intermediaries, inthe proposed project, selection o f PFIs will receive
      special attention, because choosing the right PFIs can be critical for the success o f
     the project. Sample eligibility criteria and specific support have beenprovided to
     CDB to strengthenits capacity to carry out the screening and evaluation o f PFIs to
     ensure that they meet requirementssatisfactory to the Bank and CDB. Inaddition,




                                                                                            6

       the Bankhas provided support to CDB inappraisingthe initialPFk7 Monitoring
       of performance of the PFIs is an integral element of project implementation and TA
       from the PIC will reinforce this task.

       Chances of success are enhanced by the incorporatioyl of expert services to
       demonstrate how banks can meet thefinancial services needs of the targeted
       beneficiaries on a commercially sustainable basis. This will be the first Bank
       project inChina to directly and broadly target the MSE sector. By design, it
       incorporatesthe conducting of a rigorously controlled pilot led by industry experts
       and the provision of extensiveTA at the PFI level to build capacity, as well as to
       strengthenCDB's capacity inselectingand advising PFIs inMSElending.

       Any line of credit should include clearly defined and transparent indicatorsfor
       monitoring implementationprogress and overall impact, andprovidefor an orderly
       exit mechanism. Clear project indicators have been defined (see section B.2) for the
       MSEFinanceProject. Monitoringwill be an important aspect ofthe project and
       will reinforce PFI performancemonitoring by CDB. The indicators will help serve
       as an early warning system ifremedial actions are appropriate. Also, sufficient
       flexibility i s built into the project with an exit mechanisminthe event that a PFI
       fails to comply with the project eligibility and implementation criteria.

       Inadequate demandfrom ultimate beneficiaries and lack of bankable sub-projects
       has, in thepast, led toproblems in the implementation of lines of credit in other
       countries. InChina the problem lies more on the supply side, as MSEs had almost
       no access to financial services and products from formal financial institutions.
       Project funding will satisfy only a portionof the demand inChina which is largely
       underserved. The PIC will help design a simple subloan appraisal system that will
       be based on intrinsic business viability, risk-basedlending rates and ability to repay
       (debt capacity) rather than complex financial analysis, guarantees and collateral
       requirements.

       Last but not least, to be successful LOCprojects require careful planning and
      preparation. The Bank and Chinese government have devoted substantialresources
       instudying the experiencesand lessons from other countries andneededreforms for
       introducing commercial MSE lending. A study on the legal and regulatory
       environment at the outset of the project indicated that no binding constraintsexist in
       China that would prohibit commercial MSE lending, The launching of the project
       receivesbroad-basedsupport from all relevant stakeholders as it was precededby
       extensiveawareness building. To test the market and to accumulate experience,
       CDB has started the pilot with two PFIs with the assistance of the PIC (for
       summary of the pilot performance, see Box 5, Annex 6).

'In       ~~




    addition to the first group o ftwo pilot PFIs, two more candidatePFIs were appraisedby CDB with
assistancefrom an international consultant. During the appraisalprocess, on-site training was provided to
the CDB staff involved in PFI selection, and a PFI selection report template has also been developed. At
the time of this final PAD, three PFIs have engaged in MSE lending and 5 more banks undergone
evaluationby CDB.


                                                                                                         7

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

26.      Several alternativeswere consideredto findthe most appropriatewholesaler bank
for channeling and institutionalizing MSEfinance inChina. CDB was chosenfor a
number of reasons. First, CDB was judged to be well managedwith a sound balance
sheet. As mentioned in Box 3, at the end of 2005, CDB had a capital adequacy ratio of
over 9 percent and net profits of almost RMB 23 billion and has transparent operations
with an investment grade rating. Second, CDB was strongly supported by the
Government andthus, potentially hadthe clout to both encouragecommercial practices
among PFIs and enforce conditions of the on-lending agreements. Finally, CDB had a
mandate to support economic developmentpolicies, which clearly this project fits within
the broad scope of CDB's mission.

27.     Insum, CDB was assessedto be best placedto function as an MSEfinance
wholesaler, andto work with PFIs. This would not have been an appropriate role for
either of the other two policy banks (Agricultural Development Bank and Exim Bank).
Untillately, the ADB was primarily a funding agency for the state procurement ofgrain,
edible oil and cotton; and the Exim Bank's focus was on export and import financing, as
the name implies. Other alternativesconsideredincluded PostalSavingsandRemittance
Bureau (recently transformed to China Postal Savings Bank) and commercial banks.

28.     Despite the many advantages including a nationwide network, strong deposit base
and state-of-the-artcomputer network, the conversion of PSRB into a lender involves
many additional challenges which would be beyondthe scope of this project. As the
state-ownedbanks (SCBs) are currently involved insubstantialrestructuring that is
expectedto fully commandmanagement attention for the next several years, they were
not consideredas realistic candidates for either wholesale or retail distribution of MSE
finance under this project.

29.     It was recognizedthat NGOs have limitedoutreachpotential and offer few non-
loan financial services (e.g. they are unable to take deposits). Government programs
involved similar constraints, inaddition to problems mentioned above. Urban and rural
credit cooperatives lack the loan interest rate flexibility necessary to appropriately price
MSEsubloans, and as suchwere not consideredviable as PFIs. The possibility of
lending through a large nationwide bank was also explored but a focus on the MSEsector
did not fit its strategy at this time. It will be several years before the de novo banks, such
as the village banks created as a result of recent deregulation by CBRC, could meet the
eligibility of PFIs.

30.     Inearly 2007, the Governmentrequired CDB to pioneer a reform to
"commercialize" policy banking. InChina's current circumstances, there are several
roles policy banks might play, including to pioneer new client, product, and geographic
markets where the commercial potential has not beenrecognizedor tapped by
commercial banks, and/or to distribute non-commercial yet socially desirable financial
services. Inall the above areas, a case can be made for CDB to focus on wholesale



                                                                                             8

operationsto leveragegreater outreachand impactsthroughretail financial institutions.
There is no doubt that MSElendingoperationsdesignedunder this project will provide a
valuable modelfor CDB's future operations.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements

31.     The KfW has decidedto co-finance the MSEproject on a parallelbasis.A
Memorandumo fUnderstandingdatedOctober 12,2005 providesa basis for the
collaborationbetweenthe Bank and KfW. KfW has enteredinto a loanagreement to
provide a loano f US$50 millionto supplementthe CreditFacility and a TA grant o f3
million (fromthe FederalRepublico f Germany) to CDB to defray the TA costs. CDB is
expectedto withdraw from the grant fundingbeforethe Bank loan underthe TA Facility.
Incase additionalgrant fundingbecomes available,funds currently earmarkedfor the TA
Facility couldbe shiftedto the Credit Facility as mentionedabove.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

32.     The Ministry of Financewill representChinainsigningthe Bank loan agreement.
It will pass on the funds to CDB, inaccordance with an on-lendingagreement to be
signedbetweenthe MOF and CDB. As evidenceo f its commitmentto the project, MOF
has indicatedthat the loan will be passed on to CDB on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank loan. CDB will beresponsiblefor implementationof all componentsofthe
project. It will be directly responsiblefor implementationof the TA Facility and will on
lendthe funds under the Credit Facility to eligible PFIsfor further on-lendingto MSEs,
in accordance with the terms and conditions of Subsidiary LoanAgreements (SLAs)
betweenCDB and the PFIs. Critical and generalconditions governingPFI operations in
lendingto MSEsunderthis project will be subject to the prior review ofthe Bank.

33.     The projectwill use a report-baseddisbursementsmethod, inaccordance with the
agreement betweenthe Bank, MOF and CDB. The report format, content and frequency
will be decidedbeforeproject negotiation(also see Annex 7). Thus, there will be no
needfor CDB to open andmaintaina specialaccount as inthe case o ftraditional
disbursementtechniques. The projectwill be implementedover about 5 years and the
mainbeneficiarieswill bethe PFIs and MSEs. CDB will also be a beneficiarythrough
support indevelopingits capacity to appraise commercialbanks and its expertiseas a
wholesale financer of, and adviser for, MSElendingactivities. These appraisal skills, in
particular, will providebroader benefitsto CDB inits other activitiesinvolvinglending
throughcommercialbanks. The capacityto conduct due diligenceon banks is also
relevant to CDB's engagement with other financial institutionsfrom a wholesaler
perspective.

34.     Consistentwith its asset and liability management strategiesand business needs,
CDB expressed a desireto limit the number ofwithdrawals under boththe Credit Facility
andthe TA Facility,preferablywithin two transactions. Accelerateddisbursementwill



                                                                                       9

not result in relaxation of Bank surveillance and supervision ofproject implementation,
as the project closing date is set on June 30,201 1, enabling the Bank to supervise the
project well beyond the withdrawal of loan proceeds. There remains a possibility for
CDB to seek additional funding from the Bank ifthere is a needto do so.

35.       CDB establisheda microfinance business unit (MBU)inJanuary 2005, with
overall responsibility for the project, including reporting to the Bank.' The director of
MBUwill bethe overall counterpart for the project. The MBUhasthree sections: PFI
selection and monitoring, MSEfinance advisory services andproject management. Key
members o f the MBUwere recruited competitively and have gone through rigorous
training inMSE lending. CDB is considering further strengtheningof the MBUby
granting it greater independence, additional resourcesand staffing, as called for by the
rapidly growing business under the project (see Section D.3 and Annex 6 for more details
on implementation arrangements).

36.       As part of project preparation and to preparefor early project start-up, detailed
eligibility criteria for PFIs (with a reporting template) have been developed and agreed
with the Bank. The mechanismhas been tested by performing a due diligence oftwo
initial PFIs (carried outjointly by CDB, KfW andthe Bank). Under the project, advisory
services will be provided to help CDB assess additional PFIs, untilit has sufficient skills
to complete this work independently. Throughout project implementation, CDB will be
responsiblefor monitoring continued compliance with the criteria. PFIs will be
responsiblefor on-lending to MSEs, with the guidance of the PIC.

37.       As no subloan is expectedto exceedRMB 500,000, at least inthe first few years,
there will be no prior review by the Bank or CDB of subloans. Reviews will take place
only during the course of regular project monitoring and supervision.

38.       CDB has prepared an Operational Manual for the project, which also covers
financial management and environmental management matters. The draft manualwas
provided to the Bank for review prior to negotiation and will be agreedwith the Bank
before effectiveness. Adoption by CDB of the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the
Bank,will be a condition of effectivenessofthe proposedproject.

3. Monitoring and evaluationof outcomes/results

39.       An important part ofthe PIC'Swork is to ensure that a robust system is put in
place and implemented to monitor and evaluateprogresswith the Credit Facility. This
system would necessarilyalso reflect the results and effectivenessof the TA Facility.
The datato monitor project outcomes and results will be generatedas an integral part of
the day-to-day businessof the PFIs.



8An international consulting firm, financed through the Bank's Technical Cooperation Credit IV, provided
initial assistanceto CDB, between July 2005 and January 2006, to develop the institutional capacityto
undertake the proposedbusiness. The CDB Microfinance Core Team that led the preparationeffort has
been transformed into this Microfinance Business Unit. .


                                                                                                      10

PFI monitoring and evaluation will be undertakenby the MBUincollaboration with the
PIC, based on clearly identifiedbenchmarks and performance indicators. CDB will, in
addition, monitor and analyze financial statements, audited reports, expenses and other
material information as it relatesto the MSE finance departments. The reports produced
will also serve to evaluate the effectivenessof CDB.

40.     PFIs will be required, under the terms of the SubsidiaryLoanand the Technical
Cooperation Agreements, to submit monthly Operations Reports for each branch with an
MSEfinance department set upunderthe project. CDB will receive more detailed
quarterly reports, containing both quantitative and qualitative information, from the PIC.
Reporting formats have beendevelopedand tested by the PIC.'

41.     CDB will provide project implementation reportsto the Bank on semi-annual
basis for the duration of the project.

42.     Separately, the Bank will work with CDB to set up a monitoring and evaluation
researchprogram that would focus on the effectivenessand efficiency of the MSE
lending technology under the project. The program would compare lending to MSEs
with and without the lending technology as well as on the rate of returnon equity of
MSEsreceiving loansthrough the new technology comparedto those that did not. The
researchprogram is separately funded by the Bank outside the project, and participation
by PFIs will be on voluntary basis.

4. Sustainability

43,     The project's sustainability is ensured by a number of factors, includingthe
Government's commitment to facilitate increasedaccess of MSEsto financing through
the banking sector. This is evidencedby the improvements inthe regulatory and
supervisory framework, especially through recent loan interest rate liberalization
measures and guidelines facilitating small business lending. CDB's commitment to and
ownership of the project i s clearly demonstratedby the steps it has taken to establishand
staff the new MBU, and its objectives to develop its capacity as aprovider of MSE
financing advisory services. Sustainability will be further evidencedby the use of CDB's
own funds for both on-lending and TA to PFIs for MSElending. Likewise, PFIs will first
use their own funding for lending to MSEs before submitting claims for reimbursement
from CDB. It is anticipatedthat PFIs will expand lending to MSEsout of their own
resourcesand mainstreamMSEfinance into their activities. It is also anticipated that the
mechanismsdeveloped could be replicated inother commercial banks. Furtherassistance
from the Bank may be required inthis regard, ifthe demonstrationeffect of the project
pays off. Thus the benefits would continue beyond the life of this project.




9The formats had been discussed with the Bank and were agreed duringappraisal.


                                                                                        11

   5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

              Risks                           RiskMitigationMeasures                RiskRating
                                                                                       with
                                                                                    Mitigation
To project development objective
In its eagernessto establish this Strategy and businessplanoutliningthe            Modest
business line and achieve large- objectives, constraints andprerequisites will be
scale outreach, CDB moves too    agreed upon with CDB managementandMBU
quickly in disbursingfunds        staff;
before the underlying            Close involvementofthe Bank during project
institutional arrangements,      preparation, as well as oversight during
capacity and structures are in    implementation,to ensure capacity is built up,
place in the PFIs                 includingin on-site evaluation of PFIs;
                                 ProvisionofTA from highcaliber international
                                 experts inthe field
An insufficient number of         Selectionto be made from a large pool; pragmatic Modest
commercial banks qualify as       selection criteria includingactionplansto allow
PFIs                             borderlinebanksto meet criteria once agreed steps
                                 are taken

To Component Results
Slow drawdown of CDB line        Ensuringappropriate funds transfer pricingwithin  Modest
of credit because it is viewed asCDB so that the MBUcan offer a competitivebut
too costly by PFIs relativeto    positivereal interestrate;
alternativesource of funds.      Calibrationof on-lendingterms based on periodic
                                 monitoringof credit demandand interest rate
                                 environment;
                                 The subsidiary loans providea source of needed
                                  long-termfundingto PFIs;
                                 The projectteam will continue to work on
                                 regulatoryexemption of on-lendingfunds from
                                  loan to deposit ratio;
                                 Provisionof flexibility to PFIs in determiningthe
                                 final interest rate.
PFIdefault risk                  Carefulselection and monitoringof PFIs basedon    Low
                                 agreedcriteria;
                                 Diversificationof risk by working with multiple
                                 PFIs; close coordinationwith CBRC; close
                                 oversightand monitoringby CDB with assistance
                                 of the PIC.
PFIBoard and Management          Earlycommitment of PFIsand provision of free      Modest
fail to take all necessary steps TA linkedto use ofthe Credit Facility
to establish and implement       Incentivesto be built intothe terms ofthe
appropriate credittechnologies   subsidiary loan agreementsto allow CDB to take
and practices                    correctiveaction, includingan exit mechanism, if


                                                                                           12

                               IPFIs fail to comply with project requirements
MSE default risk                Mechanismsare built inthe subloan underwriting    Low
                                processto ensure that the PFIexposure is well
                                within the debt capacity ofeach MSEborrower,
                                and that MSE borrowershavethe incentivesto
                                repay loans on time.
Overall risk rating                                                               Modest

 6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

     ..
 Thefollowing conditions of appraisal have beenfuplled:

          CDB puts inplace dedicated microfinance business unit with full-timemanagers
          and staff
          CDB develops an environmental assessment framework, satisfactory to the Bank

     .
 Thefollowing conditions of Negotiation have beenfuplled:

          CDB completes the part of the Operational Manual on environmental guidelines,
          policies, procedures and organizations (as described inthe EAF), acceptable to
          the Bank.

     .
 Conditions of Effectiveness:

          Completion and adoption by CDB o f the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the
          Bank, which covers PFI selection and monitoring, financial management,
          procurement and environmental assessmentmatters.

     ..
 Covenants:

          PFI selection framework and eligibility criteria
          CDB on-lending terms and conditions to PFIs

     .
 Other special covenants:

          CDB will maintain, throughout the period of implementation o fthe Project and
        . with terms o f reference, adequate staffing and other resources acceptable to the
          Bank;
          CDB shall not terminate, amend, suspend, or waive any consultants' contract
     .    procured for purposes o f implementingPart 2 of the project, or any provision
          thereof, without the prior concurrence by the bank.
          CDB shall take all prudent and timely steps necessary to protect itself against risk
     .    of loss resulting from either changes inexchange and interest rate environment or
          from developments inthe PFIs that enhance risks inits exposure to PFIs.
          By January 1,2008, CDB shall prepare, with terms ofreference acceptable to the
          Bank, an updated strategy and businessplanwith respect to Part 1o f the Project;


                                                                                            13

         and an updatedprocurement planwith respectto Part 2 of the Project, both
         acceptable to the Bank. Any changes to the strategies and plans mustbe agreed
         by the Bank.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic andfinancialanalyses

44.      Significant benefits are expectedto be derived from the project. It will: (i)
facilitate credit expansionto a rapidly growing private MSE sector; (ii)     improve credit
market efficiency and quality of credit decisions; (iii)  improve credit culture and risk
management systems inbanks while expanding outreach; and (iv)enable the PFIs to
diversify away from lending to state-ownedenterprises and other quasi-governmental
entities. The new market segments to be serviced under this project will enable PFIs to
compete in the emerging market-oriented and competitive financial market with positive
impacts on growth, developmentand employment creation. Finally, the new skills and
credit discipline introduced under this project will have spill-over effects by way of: (i)
enabling banks to apply the same principles and businesspractices across their entire loan
portfolio and businesslines; and (ii)  enhancingCDB's analytical skills infuture dealings
with commercial banks and inprovidinginformation andreference material to the
regulatory and supervisory authority, with whom it is collaborating closely inthe bank
selection process.

45.      The financial analysis, carried out as part of the due diligence of CDB and two
potential PFIs, indicated that these institutions meet the eligibility criteria for the project
inregardsto profitability, capital adequacy, asset quality andriskmanagement. Details
are provided inAnnex 9. The due diligence of the potential PFIs will allow those who
meet the selection criteria infullto be eligible to participate inthe project immediately.
Incases where potential PFIs are assessed to be inneedof further financial and
operational strengthening, they would be eligible to participate inthe project following
their compliancewith a time-bound corrective action plan. The CAP would be agreed
upon between CDB and the PFI and would be subject to the Bank's prior approval.
The project is not expectedto have any negative fiscal impact. No credit subsidies are
envisagedand the project will deliver benefits ina relatively undistorted economic
environment. Consistent with its policy role, CDB will provide counterpart funds from
its own resourcesto cover project implementation costs.

2. Technical

46.     The technical approachtaken inthis project is entirely consistent with
international best practice, with respect to bothwholesaling by CDB to MSEfinance
providers, and provision of financial services to MSEsby PFIs (See Box 4, Annex 4for a
summary of the lending technology under the downscaling approach).




                                                                                             14

3. Fiduciary

47.     FinancialManagement:The FinancialManagement Specialist (FMS) has
conducted an assessment o f the adequacy o f the project financial management system of
the project. The assessment, basedon guidelines issued by the FinancialManagement
Sector Board on November 3,2005, has concluded that the project meets the minimum
Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. Inthe FMS'
opinion, the project will have inplace an adequate financial management systemthat can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the
project in the reporting format agreed with the counterpart and as requiredby the Bank.

48.     Fundingsources for the project include a Bank loan, a loan and a grant from KfW,
and counterpart funds. The Bank loan will be signedbetween the Bank and the People's
Republic o f China through its Ministry o f Finance (MOF), and on-lending arrangements
for the Bank loan will be signed betweenM O F and CDB. The KfW loan and grant
agreements were signedwith CDB on September 20, 2006, and disbursements are
expected to take place soon. Counterpart funds will include internal funding from CDB.

49.     No outstandingaudits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing entities
involved inthe proposed project. The task team however will continue to be attentive to
financial management matters and audit covenants duringproject supervisions.

50.     Procurement:An assessmentofthe capacity o fthe Project Implementing Entity
to implementprocurement actions for the project was carried out inAugust 2006. The.
assessment reviewedits organization structure and functions, past experience, staff skills,
quality and adequacy o f supporting and control systems. The overall risk for
procurement i s low. For details see Annex 8.

4. Social

5 1.    No negative social implications are envisaged as the end borrowers under the
project will be self-employed individuals and small businesses. To ensure environmental
soundness o f the project, especially for loans that fund production activities, CDB will
establish policies, procedures and manuals for PFIs to screen and evaluate subloan
applications to prevent fundingfor economic activities that may exert negative impacts
on human development.

5. Environment

52.     The project i s classified as Category "FI". Given the focus o f the project on
MSEs,especially inthe area oftrade and services, it is expected that the vast majority of
sub-projects will have minor environmental impacts ifat all. Nonetheless, CDB has
established an environmental assessmentframework (EAF)to ensure the environmental
soundness of the project. CDB will undertake environmental due diligence under the
project, and put inplace policies, procedures and manuals, satisfactory to the Bank. CDB
i s committed to make sure that PFIs build up capacity to screen and evaluate subloan



                                                                                         15

applications to prevent subloans for economic activities that may have negative
environmental impacts. CDB has drafted the part inthe Operational Manual relatedto
environmental assessment, and is putting inplacethe Environmental ManagementGroup
described inthe EAF.

6. Safeguard policies

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes              No
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                [x 1              [I
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                            [I              [  X I
 Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                                 [I                 X I
 Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                                              [I              1. X I
 Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)               *                                     [I                 X I
 Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10)                                                             [I              [X   I
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [I              [X   I
 Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                              [I              [X   I
 ProjectsinDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)**                                               [I              [X   I
 Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                       [I              [ X I

* Inthe context of China, IndigenousPeoplesrefers to minority nationalities.
*IBy supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination ofthe parties'
claims on the disputed areas.

53.      The project was classified as a financial intermediary loan (FIL). The proposed
arrangements to ensure that the project is consistent with the Bank's Safeguardspolicies
were reviewed by the EAP Safeguards Secretariaton September 12,2006 and cleared by
the Sector Manager on November 2,2006.

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

54.      No policy exceptions are perceivedfor the project. Detailed arrangements for
project implementation are underway. Pilot lending activities have already beeninitiated
on a test basis intwo PFIs, under the close guidance of the PIC and using the PFI's own
funds. The project was appraisedduring November 10-21,2006 and negotiatedduring
May 9-14,2007,




                                                                                                                16

                         Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
                   China: Micro and Small EnterpriseFinanceProject

Country and Sector Issues

Inthe past two decades, China enjoyed an average GDP growth of over 9 percent per
annum and has become the world's sixth largest economy and the third largest trading
nation. China has also succeeded in lifting 400 million people out o f poverty.

Despitethe spectacular achievements, China continues to be confronted with many
challenges inbuilding a well-off and harmonious society inthe next two decades. The
challenges include the needto maintain sustainable economic growth; to utilize natural
resources more efficiently and protect the environment; to address the rising economic
and social inequalities; and to reduce the sectoral and regional disparities.

To meet these challenges, China needs to diversify the sources o f economic growth and
to allocate resources to the most productive sectors o f the economy, those that contribute
to urban employment (to absorb the 12 million or so labor entrants each year) without
unduepressureto the already strained natural environment and heavy demands on natural
resources. One potential source for growth i s inthe micro, small and mediumenterprises
(MSMEs). According to official statistics, there were approximately 95 millionMSMEs
inChina at endof2004, which inthe past decadeshademployed about 150million
people; contributed about 25% o f GDP.

Inthe broad spectrum of MSMEs,micro and small enterprises, including self-employed
individuals (MSEshereafter), will play an indispensable role inmeetingthese challenges.
Promoting MSEs,the majority o f which are privately owned, i s a government priority in
the drive to build a well-off and harmonious society.lo

Various studies, including those by the Bank, have shown that lack o f access to credit i s a
key constraint to the ability o f MSEs to grow and createjobs." InChina it is also
perceived as perpetuating inefficiencies in, and the informality of, MSEs. MSEs in China
generally lack access to credit from formal financial institutions, including various types
o f deposit-taking banks and credit cooperatives (banks hereafter). While MSMEsas a
whole remain credit constrained, access to formal finance by the subset o f MSEs is even
more difficult inChina, as enterprises inthe upper end o f the SMEs are perceived as
bankable by most banks. Although microfinance (mainly inthe rural area) receives some
attention from NGOs and donors, it i s the MSEsthat have over time become the forgotten
segment,




loState Council Opinion on EncouragingDevelopmentof Individual and Private Enterprises,February 15,
2005; CBRC, the Chairman's Opening Speechat MSE FinanceWorkshopjointly organizedby CBRC,
PBC and WB, April 15,2005 (www.cbrc.gov.cn).
" Forexample:HowImportantAre FinancingConstraints?Theroleoffinanceinbusinessenvironment,
Ayyagari, DemirgtipKunt, Maksimovic May 26, 2005, as well as survey reports by the PBC and CPDF.


                                                                                                 17

Basedon data from the China Investment Climate Assessment of December2003, it is
clear that access to finance i s a serious constraint for firms insupporting operations and
making the investmentsfor start-up, maintenance, and expansion. The constraints are
particularly acute for MSEs, with bank loans financing 27 percent of working capital for
f i r m s with at least 100 employees, which i s already low by international standards, to a
mere 13 percent for firms with 20-99 employees. Those firms with only 20 or fewer
employees finance only 2.3 percent of working capital through bank loans. On average,
these MSEs only obtain 12 percent o f their working capital from bank loans, compared
with 21-28 percent inmany large neighboring countries inAsia (suchas Indonesia, Korea,
Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand), and well-over 30 percent inIndia.

The reasons behind the lack of access to finance by MSEs are numerous and complex.
One o f them is that Government officials and banksinChina share an entrenched
perceptionthat MSEs are inherently risky andthus are not suitable clients for banks, in
part because many experiments inpromoting MSE access to loans have experienced
unacceptably high loan loss rates. Yet these perceptionsand experiencesare at odds with
experience in other countries indicatingthat a diversified portfolio of MSE loans can
often be less risky than a less diversified portfolio of loans to large firms. l2

Another reasonfor persistentdifficulty in access by MSEs i s a long-standing credit
culture inthe banking sector biasedtowards collateral and guarantees. Lackingthe
ability to processthe soft information that is characteristicof MSEs, banks rely heavily
on collateral and credit guarantees. Regulatory policies also perpetuatedthe "collateral
worship" as non-secured lending was discouraged. As most MSEs do not possess the
kind of collateral required by banks and have difficulty arranging for guaranteeby athird
party, MSE lending became either an impossible or extremely costly proposition.

The persistence of these misperceptions inChina risks both undermining appropriate
policy decisionsand skewing the design of government interventions relating to
promoting access by MSEs to the capital necessary to grow, create newjobs and improve
incomes.13

China also faces a related challengeto fully commercialize the banking system (for an
overview of the Chinese banking sector, see Box 1). Three of the state-owned
commercial banks (SCBs), accounting over 50% of the banking sector assets, have
receivedequity participation by foreign strategic investors have undergoneIPOs on the
stock exchange at home and abroad. The second-tier banks, includingjoint-stock
national banks and city commercial banks, together accounting for 20% of the banking
sector assets, are also undergoing extensive restructuring as their ownership i s being
transformed to broad-basedshare-holdingby foreign andprivate investors, resulting in



l2  As an example, the EBRD small business program as well the Procredit Banks inEurope and Central
Asia have built an impressive track record of lendingto small businesses with very low delinquency,
default and loss rates.
I'  There are a range of matters of current interest that are relevant inthis respect, includingoverhauling and
expandingthe existingcredit informationregistry system, various loan guarantee schemes and institutions,
and various subsidized lendingprograms.


                                                                                                             18

improvement incorporate governance and risk management. Inall, deposits inthe
banking sector amounted to RMB 26.27 trillion (about US$3.3 trillion), about 150% o f
GDP, indicating unusual financial depthand a strong capacity for collecting deposits by
the Chinese banks. The challenge lies indeploying the vast savings deposits to most
productive economic activities.

Among banks' most serious and debilitating weaknesses are poor corporate governance,
underdevelopedcredit risk management and pricing capacity. To addressthe deficiencies,
the banking system is engaged ina major structural reformprogram aimed at improving
intermediation efficiency, commercial orientation, financial health and portfolio quality.
Inthe process ofrestructuring, many banks have put inplace the forms of corporate
governance but still have a long way to go to make corporate governance work. Many
banks have strengthened their capital base, but others continue to have low capital
adequacy ratios even in nominal terms. Ifstrict loan classification, accrual norms and
provisioning rules are applied, many banks would be technically insolvent. Most banks,
however, have plans to replenishcapital to comply with the capital regulation rules set by
the ChinaBanking Regulatory Commission (CBRC), to bringtheir CAR to at least 8%
by 2007.

The restructuringprocess is beingfacilitated by strong oversight and guidance from
CBRC, which has introduced newprudential regulations (including the new capital
adequacy requirements) and supervisory practices that will substantially improve the
regulators' ability to accurately assess both the financial health o f banks and the quality of
their management.

Commercializing the banking system also will require that banks differentiate themselves
strategically. Many banks pursue lendingto large and state-affiliated firms and the
intense competition arguably has ledto under-pricing o f credit risk in general. As in
other countries, MSElendingcould serve as a key component o f new, profitable business
strategies for many banks. Inthe past several years, the large banks centralized credit
decisions as a means to reduce NPLs. This not only put a distance betweenbanks'
lendingdecisions and MSEborrowers, majority o f which are located inurban andperi-
urban areas, but also dulled the skills o f credit analysis at the grass-root level o f banks.
Increased competition resulting from financial liberalization i s expected to pushmany
banks towards the lower end o f the market. But to be successful, they needto adopt
lendingtechnologies different from those that more suitedto corporate lending.

Inthe past, banks tended to apply whatever corporate lendingtechniques they hadto
micro and small lending, only to find their non-performing loans rise, which had further
entrenched the notion that MSE lendingwas costly and risky. The overemphasis on
collateral constrains the availability o f credit to MSEswhich cannot meet banks' and
supervisors' collateral requirements,even ifthey could generate adequate cash-flow to
service bank loans at commercial rates o f interest.

Over the last decade a large number of multilateral donors, NGOs and quasi-official
institutions have beenoperating pilots to promote access to credit, mostly by poor



                                                                                              19

households but also MSEs. These programs have experienced a range o f outcomes in
terms o f repayment rates. Few, if any, have proven commercially sustainable and none i s
scaleable. Thus no basis has been laid by these efforts for the nationwide broad-based
expansion o f access to credit by MSEs.

InOctober 2004, the PBC liberalized lendinginterest rates for commercial banks, a
significant milestone. InJuly 2005, the CBRC issuedguidelines for commercial banksto
engage in MSE lending which emphasize the importance o f commercial sustainability
and use o f new lendingand businesspractices appropriate for the MSEmarket, and
which commit to further reduce potential regulatory impedimentsto banks profitably
serving the MSE market.

InDecember 2006, the CBRC launched a pilot infive provinces to open up themral
financial market by creating three types o f licenses. One i s village banks at the county
and municipal levels to be majority heldby incumbent banks; another is credit-only
microjnance companies to be exclusively owned by incumbent banks; and thirdly
member-basedjnancial coops at the village level. It i s recognized that the pilot will put
to test the regulatory capacity o f CBRC, especially at the grass-root level. Inorder for
the pilot to be successful, it is essential for an accompanying regulatory framework to be
inplace and for the CBRC capacity to be built up. At this stage it is too early tojudge
whether the pilot will achieve the intendedresults, and certainly premature to include the
pilot credit institutions inthe Project as PFIs.




                                                                                          20

                                    Box 1: China'sBankingSector at a Glance

The Chinesebankingsystem consists of 3 policy banks and 336 commercialbanks. These include4
state-owned commercialbanks SCBs; 13joint-stock commercialbanks JSCBs; 114 city
                                              -                                           -
commercialbanks           - CCBs;       and 200 foreign bank branches); 30,000 or so credit cooperatives(of
which 28,000 are rural and 2000 urban). Together, the bankingsector has total assets over RMB20
trillion (equivalentto 3.3trillion USdollars).

The SCBs have about 80,000 branches and employ about 1.7 million people. Togetherthey account
for more than half of the bankingsector assets and liabilities (see chart below). Since 1998the
SCBs have withdrawn their presencefrom belowcounty level, in an effort to raise operational
efficiency. The grass-root offices of SCBs that have survivedthe down-sizinghave their lending
authority taken away, as credit decisionshave beencentralizedto higher levels. These moves have
been perceived to have further aggravatedthe funding situationof MSEs. Three ofthe SCBs have
completed financialrestructuring, securedforeign strategic investment, and are inthe processof
operationalrestructuring. The Agricultural Bank of China(ABC) remains an outlier as there has
been no substantivemove to restructureit either financially or operationally.

The JSCBs, with a combined branchnetwork of 5185 offices and staff size of 143,075, are fast
growingand are consideredthe most dynamic group of banks. Nine have foreign participationin
their equities, and several have been listedon the stock exchange. The largest bank in this group,
Bank of Communications(BOCOM) has gone through an IPO on the HongKong stock exchange
(June 2005, raisingUS$l.9billion), with HSBCtaking 19.9 percent of the ownershipstake. HSBC
has a meaningfulpresenceon the boardand assignedsenior executives on the managementteam.

The CCBs have hada short history as they were created inthe late1990's or early 00's by merging
the urban credit cooperatives that mushroomed inthe early 1990's amiddefacto liberalizationin
China's bankingscene. Althoughthey representonly 5 percent of the bankingsector market share,
the CCBs have been rapidly growinginthe past several years (18 percent growth in assets as
comparedwith the industryaverageof 16 percent). The ownershipstructure of the CCBs is diverse,
with municipal governments as the main owners. To a large extent, for the municipal governments,
the CCBs are what the SCBs are to the centralgovernment. Consequently, they are heavily
influencedby the local governments which continue to have a say in senior managerial
appointments.


               Assets and liabilities of Banks and Financial           Market Shares in Assets ofBanks and Financial
                           Institutions, end-2005                                 Insitituiions,end-2005
  IJnii RMHl hi1
                n

      20000                    Io Assets    Liabilities
      18000
      16000
      14000
      12000
      10000
       8000
       6000
       4000
       2000

              SOCRr    Joint-stock      City         Other
                       Commercial Commercial       Financial        Banks, I 5 5%
                          Ranks       Banks      Institutions




                                                                                                                     21

     Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                         China: Micro and Small Enterprise Finance Project

For the past severalyears the Bank has focused on a substantialAAA program that has,
among other things, addressed issues related to broadening access within China to
financial services offered by licensedand regulated financial institutions (See Box 2).

      Box 2: Selected Works of BankFinancialSector AAA Programon China,2001-2005
  Policy Note: InterestRate Liberalization (September 2001). Followed by continued advocacy on further
  liberalization of lending rates

  Policy Note: Credit Reporting and Information Systems (March 2003) and Conference:Credit ReportingSystems and
 China's Economy (May 2004)

  Policy Note: Finance for Small Firms (July 2002)

  Policy Note: RethinkingRural Finance in China (June 2003); Advice to PBC management (through a brainstorming
  workshop) on key issues surrounding a pilot to introduce best practice and competition in rural microfinance market
 (August 2004)

  Policy Note: Observations and Suggestionson RCC Reform Pilot (August 2003) Training: RCC Regulation and
  Supervision (November 2003)

 Report: Corporate Governance of Rural Commercial Banks: Assessment and Recommendations (February 2004)

 Policy Note: Institutional Issues and Prerequisites for Efficient Savings Mobilization and Allocation in Rural and
 Lesser Developed Regions in China (October 2003)

 Policy dialogue with CBRC on promotionof commercial MSE finance (January 2005); conference on MSE finance,
 jointly with CDB, attended by deputy governor of PBC and senior officials of the CBRC (September 2004; assistance
 to CBRC study tour to Kazakhstan Small Business Programto learn first handexperiences and practices in lending to
 small business February-March,2005; and conference on MSE finance, jointly with the PBC and CBRC (May 2005)

 Policy note on PSRB's role in promoting access to finance (June 2005) and ongoing assistanceto PSRB in its
 microfinance pilot and in establishinga postal savings bank



There have beenno Bank loan projects directly targeting the MSE sector, although
components of several other projects were oriented toward rural development and
included lending to small businesses andhouseholds. These projects historically have
not included financial sector developmentobjectives, and have generally involvedon-
lending by government departments ratherthan intermediation through the banking
system.

The last project that incorporateda line of credit that was intermediatedthrough the
banking system was in 1999. The mainpurpose of that project was poverty reduction in
the westernpart ofthe country.

No other international agencies have undertakenlending projects that target micro and
small businesses inChina.

The Asian Development Bank has provided TA to the Chinese government instudying
credit guarantee schemes, incollaboration with the NDRC.




                                                                                                                   22

KJW has a number of lines of credit providingfinancing to SMEsthrough second-tier
banks. The average size of loans is way above that under the project.

                                                        Volur :in millions of EU
                Program
                                                  FC Funds     Market Funds     Total
 SME I                                      1997        24.74            24.74   49.48
  - AgriculturalBank ofChina (ABC)
  - ChinaEximbank
 SME I1
  - Hua                                     1999        12.78              6.39  19.17
        Xia Bank
 SME 111
  -- China MinshengBankingCorp.             2003        25.56             12.78  38.34
           MerchantBank
     China
 SupplementarySME 111Program                2004        30.27             15.14  45.41
 Total                                                  93.35             59.05 152.40




                                                                                     23

                                  Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                              China: Micro and SmallEnterpriseFinanceProject



  Project Development Objectives            Project OutcomeIndicators          .
To expand credit flows to MSEs on a mass-  .
                                             Increase in number of loans to      To assess whether activity is suitable
market and commercially sustainable basis. . MSEsgranted through the new         for scaling-up nationwide.
                                             lending technology compared to      To judge whether MSE lending
                                             a control group.                    outreach is at the expense of portfolio
                                           . Portfolio quality: Maximum          quality and to introduce promptly
                                             percentage of subloans overdue      corrective actions.
                                             by more than 30 days.               To demonstrate the effectiveness ofthe
                                             Indicator of rate of return on      new lendingtechnology.
                                             capital of MSE borrowers in the   .
                                                                                 To demonstrate the efficiency of the
                                             treatment group compared to         new lendingtechnology.
                                             control group.I4
         Intermediate Results

Result 1:
.                                               IntermediateResults
                                           .          Indicators
                                           Result 1:                           Result 1:
   PIE develops skills and capacityto        Number of PIE staff able to         To judge effectiveness of PIE'S
   effectively provide long-term-funding     evaluate and monitor commercial     strategy and business plan and
   and advisory services to banks for MSE    banks eligibility to engage in      determine whether modificationsare
   lending.                                  MSE activity.                       needed.
   MSE lending accepted by PFIs as a       . The number of MSE borrowers         To assess whether there is potential for
   viable line of business.                                                      scaling up nationwide.
                                                                                 To judge whether the TA program is
                                                                                 effective in institution building or
                                                                                 requires modification.
                                                                                 To make sure that PFIs give priority to
                                                                                 the number of MSE loans (or
                                                                                 borrowers) rather than the volume of
                                                                                 portfolio.
                                                                                 To enable PFIs to assess whether the
                                                                                 activity should be mainstreamed into
                                                                                 their regular business activities.
Result2:                                   Result 2:
.                                                                                 .
   PIE develops capacityto advise PFIs in    Number of PFIsthat adopt and               Tojudge whether the TA
   MSE lending.                            .                                   Result 2:


                                             implement institutional                    program is effective or requires
   Newly recruited and trained lending       development plans and MSE                  modification and whether PFIs
   officers in PFIs utilize requisite new    credit technologies.                       are fulfilling their obligations
   businesspractices and lending                                                        under the project.
   technologies.                           . Number of PIE in-houseexperts
                                             able to provide advisory services
                                             to PFIs on MSE lending.
                                             Number of trained loan officers
                                             at PFIs.




     l4 The survey will be conductedby an independent group with separate fimding and participation in the
     survey study will be on voluntary basis.


                                                                                                                  24

       E
       a
       g-    :
             E
             a




U
v)

0

ez;
8
FI
I
c
W


a
eU

             sm
              V    2    2


 2           sm
 0                      2
 N            V    2

 m           sm    U
 0
 0
 N     \o     V    e

 00
 0                 U
 0                      9
 c-4         smV   e

 +
 0   s
 0           sm
       IC,
 N    m
      0       V


 8           s     U
 0           m
 N            V   e


                  0     0




v)


U
0
s3
I
u
8E
Y
6

a
2




z
         x
         cd




d
         c
         0

2   d




         0
         Y




0

                             Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                    China: Micro and SmallEnterpriseFinanceProject

Overview

The project consists o ftwo closely linked components: (i)a Credit Facility to CDB for
on-lending to Participating Financial Institutions        - PFIs   and (ii)TA Facility to support:
                                                                            a
(i)capacitybuildingandMSEloanadministrationinthePFIs; and(ii)                       capacity building
o f CDB. Inparallel, KfW will provide CDB with a loan o f US$50 million inaddition to
the Credit Facility and a grant (from the German Government) o f3 millionto defray the
T A costs.'' CDB i s expected to make use o f the grant funding from KfW to cover TA
cost first, before it withdraws from the TA facility. CDB will provide up to US$300
millionto supplementthe on-lending funds. The amount o f the Bank loan to be allocated
to each component will remain flexible and could be reallocated between the components
duringimplementation as necessary, especially ifadditional grant fundingbecomes
available for TA.

This project will establish CDB as a MSEfinance wholesaler engaged inthe businessof
lendingto and arranging technical support for qualified PFIs. The PFIs will engage inthe
retail distribution o f subloans (and other financial services) to MSE clients. Via this two-
tier institutional framework,20the project will introduce into China international best
practices (and a new approach to lending) inproviding efficient financial services to
MSEs. The institutional capacity of both the CDB and PFIs, andthe expertise of a
critical mass o f domestic Chinese professionals, will be built up by international
consultants with a proven track record. The PIC will identify and transfer MSE lending
platforms and processes that have been successfully deployed inother countries. The
institutional and human resource developmentcomponents of the project are intendedto
lay the foundation for the progressive and nationwide scaling-up o f MSEfinancial
services.




l 9Agreements for this loan and grant were signed on September20,2006 and havebecome effective..
20 A two-tier system has beenrecognizedby microfinanceexperts as part ofthe desirable industry
infrastructurefor building more inclusive, deep and diverse financial systems. See for example UNExpert
Group + 10: Building DomesticFinancialSystems that Work for the Maiority, Women's World Banking,
April 2005.


                                                                                                    27

                                Box 3: ChinaDevelopmentBank

 CDB was established as a state-ownedbank in 1994to take over the policy lendingfunctionsof
 China's SCBs. It reports directly to the State Counciland has the status of a government
 ministry. CDB's primaryrole is to support economic development policiesand programs of the
 government through provisionof long-termfinancing for infrastructure,basic industries and
 regional development. CDB's main line of business is infrastructurefinancing. An SME
 finance initiative was added in 2003, to support the government's policy objectives of promoting
 a dynamic small and mediumenterprise sector. Underthis initiative CDB works with local
 commercialbanks to provide loans to SMEs and improvetheir credit risk managementand loan
 administrationstandards. The current move under this projectto focus on MSEs andthus
 service the needs of micro and small enterprises is consistent with CDB's overarching
 developmental goals.

 CDB is well managedand has a sound balance sheet. At end 2005, CDB hadtotal assets of
 about RMB 1.9trillion, an outstanding loan portfolio of RMB 1.7trillion, a capitaladequacy
 ratio of over 9 percentand net profitsof almost RMB23 billion. The bank publishes financial
 statements based on IAS, audited by a reputable internationalauditingfirm, and enjoys an
 investment grade ratingfrom major ratingagencies.

 At the Third NationalFinanceConference held in February2007, a decision was made by the
 centralgovernment for CDB to pilot commercially orientedreformof policy banking. While
 the decisionhas been subject to various interpretations, includingwhether CDB would become a
 commercialbank or remain a development finance institutionwith the principle of commercial
 sustainability,the dominant view is that CDB will continue to have a developmentalobjective,
 because in China's current circumstancesthere are several major roles for development finance,
 includingto pioneer new client, product and/or geographic marketswhere the commercial
 potentialhas not yet beenrecognizedby commercialbanks. Like other development finance
 institutionselsewhere in the world, such as in Mexico, CDB has a great potentialto leverage
 massive outreach in microfinanceby engagingwith PFIs at the retail level.

The mainproject beneficiaries will be the PFIs and MSEs. CDB will also be a
beneficiary through the support indeveloping its capacity to appraise commercial banks
and its expertise as a wholesale financer of and adviser for MSElending activities.

Component 1: Credit Facility(US$699 million)

This facility i s expectedto cover the projected total project costs of US$ 699 million,
which will be financed by a loan of US$95 millionfrom the Bank, a loan of US$50
million from KfW, and additional funding ofUS$554 million by CDB and PFIs. CDB
will provide medium to long-term funds to eligible PFIs for on-lending to MSEs. The
maturity structureof the CDB subsidiary loans will be up to 10 years, inaccordance with
the terms andconditions of Subsidiary LoanAgreements betweenCDB andthe
individual PFIs. PFIs are expectedto front-load the funding for MSE subloans before
seeking reimbursementfrom CDB.

It is envisioned that the PFIbranchesinvolved inthe project initially will be located in
urban and peri-urban areas, with roll-out during the project to increasingly rural areas.
CDB will assume the full credit risk on the PFIs and the currency risk on the Bank loan.


                                                                                              28

Provisions will also be made with the PFIs to the effect that subloan repayments by MSE
borrowerswill flow directly to CDB inthe event of failure o f PFIs. The PFIs will take
the credit risk onthe borrowing MSEs.

Selection ofPFls. The PFIs will be selected in accordance with criteria agreed with the
Bank. The main target group under this project will initially be CCBs because they are
best suitedto reach a critical mass of commercially viable MSEs inthe major
metropolitan areas. Although the financial condition o f individual CCBs varies
considerably, CDB has prepared a long list o f 20 CCBs that are potential PFIs, based on a
review o f their compliance with CBRC regulations and a preliminaryreviewo f the
financial and operating performance. To further ensure that the project supports only
viable PFIs, CDB has formulated selection criteria and risk mitigation measures. The
selection criteria (see Annex 4, Attachment 1)will take into account PFI ownership and
financial situation, institutional and management capacity, interest in and commitment to
servicing the MSEmarket, quality of financial reporting and governance, willingness to
strictly adopt and adhere to prescribed policies and procedures, commitment to hire and
train new loan officers, and to utilize the TA facility.

These criteria include, inter alia, evidence of the willingness o f commercial bank
management to accept and implementthe credit discipline and standards called for by the
credit technologies to be adopted under the project, as well as beingincompliance with
CBRC regulations, to ensure that only financially viable and reforming PFIs are selected
(see Annex 4, Attachment 1).

Inaddition, it is expected that the ongoing bankingreforms being implementedwithin the
Chinese banking system will strengthenthe financial and operational capabilities o f the
CCBs and other potential PFIs and further reduce risks under this project. Financial
institutions that meet the criteria infull will be eligible for immediate participation inthe
project. Financial institutions that need further financial and operational strengthening
may be able to participate following agreement to, and compliance with, a time-bound
corrective action plan. The CAP will be agreed upon betweenCDB and the potential PFI
and will be subject to the Bank's prior approval.

CDB has also established prudential single PFI exposure limits, based on credit risk
evaluation. Inthis regard, its approach i s to achieve the right balance between the
objectives of: (i)lendingmainly to PFIs that are reforming and strengthening their
financial and operational capabilities and view this project as a means o f doing so; (ii)
achieving reasonable widespread dissemination o f credit technologies within China; and
(iii)ensuringearlydemonstrationeffectsunderthisproject.

MSE Selection and Focus: MSEborrowerswill bemajority private sector owned and
operated, mainly inthe production, service and trade sectors. The initial focus o f the
program will be on the smaller end of this potential client market, which has been
targeted for several reasons. These reasons include: (i)offering a good opportunity to
provide training for a relatively large number o f new loan officers; (ii) group i s likely
                                                                          this
to representa relatively lower income strata that currently has limitedaccess to bank



                                                                                           29

credit; and (iii)large number of smaller subloans would provide benefitsinrespect to
                    a
portfolio diversification. It i s anticipated that eventually the PFIs will integratemany of
the MSElending practices into their mainstreamcredit administration, so as to enable
them to better lendto small as well as largeborrowers on commercially sustainablebasis.

Termsof Subsidiary Loan Agreements with PFIs (seeAnnex 4 attachment 3). CDB will
on-lend funds to PFIs as RMB denominated lines of credit with a maturity not exceeding
10 years, including a grace period of up to 5 years. CDB will price the loans on
commercial basis using PBC's base lending rate as the benchmark.The interest rate
chargedto PFIs will vary depending on (i)CDB's assessment of the credit quality o f the
PFI and (ii)the market conditions of funding. At a minimumCDB will charge an interest
rate that ensures a positive real interest rate and a rate of returnclose to CDB's current
returnon average assets. The pricingarrangementshavebeendiscussedwith the Bank
during appraisal and agreedduring negotiations. The arrangements will be reviewedfrom
time to time during implementationto ensure that they remainsatisfactory to the Bank.

PFIs will pay back the loans to CDB for reallocation to existing or additional PFIs. If
desired, a PFI may apply for a follow-up loan from CDB for on-lending to MSEs, with
the same objectives and principles. Provision will also be incorporated inthe SLA to
give CDB the right to halt or slow lending operations by PFIs under this project inthe
event of poor performance and/or deterioration inthe financial condition of the PFI.

Termsand conditionsof MSE subloans. Subloans will be for working capital and
investment. MSE subloans made by PFIs will have a maximum maturity of 3 years and
will range from RMB 100 to RMB 500,000. The average subloan is expectedto be
around RMB 50,000, while considerationi s being given to link the average size to local
income levels. The upper limit for subloansmay be increasedto RMB 1 million, subject
to the prior agreement of the Bank, inselectedregions where income levels are higher
than the national average. There will be no sectoraltargeting underthe project, but an
exclusion list2' will be agreedwith CDB and PFIs to avoid subloans going to socially and
environmentally dubious activities.22 As designed, the project will finance very small
businesses, which does not involve any landacquisition and house demolition. Ifneeding
small pieces of land, the borrowers could use their own land, or rent from others who
would voluntarily rent out. PFIs will determine the interest rate on the MSE subloans.
This rate will be adequateto cover their costs of borrowing from CDB plus a reasonable
risk-adjusted spread and a decent profit margin. The interest rates will be positive inreal
terms andwill be set as an integral part of product design with the assistance ofthe PIC.
PFIs will assumethe full credit risk on the subloans. No government-sponsored
guaranteeprograms are envisioned.




2'The list is an integralpart of the Environment Assessment Framework and will be includedin the
Operational Manual.
22The full Negative List will be incorporatedinthe OperationalManualthat is under preparationby CDB.


                                                                                                  30

Component2: TA Facility (US20 million)

The total TA costs are estimated at US$ 20 million. KfW has provided 3 million Euros,
or US$3.78 million equivalent, to defray the TA cost. The rest TA cost will be financed
by a loan o fUS$5 million from the Bank and additional US$11.22million from CDB, if
necessary. The actual cost may be variable depending on the duration of engagement of
the PIC. A critical success factor and a key goal ofthe project is to buildthe institutional
and human resource capacity o f PFIs to effectively service the MSE client market.
Features that will be incorporated inthe credit technology include, inter alia, a simple,
client-responsive, standardized loan product design, fixed monthly repayments to enforce
credit discipline, underwriting decisions based on loan officer analysis o fthe potential
sub-borrowers ability to repay (focusing on combined businessand household cash flow
and debt service capacity), use o f collateral taken mainly as an incentive device, loan
officer incentive compensation that encourages number o f new clients reached (rather
than the size o f subloans) and high rates o f subloan repayment, close monitoring and
immediate response to signs o f repayment problems, and the use o f specialized and
standardized accounting, risk management and management information systems (see
Box 4 for detailed description o f the credit technology and the downscaling approach to
microfinance).

To this end, under this component, CDB has engagedan international consulting firm to
serve as PIC to provide TA to help build the necessary capacity inthe P F I s . ~The PIC     ~
will work with the PFIs indeveloping and executing a plan for absorbing and applying
international best practices and credit technologies. New MSE finance departments that
will be set up by PFIs as a condition of their participationinthe project will be the main
focus o f this TA. The TA will involve, among other activities, recruiting and training new
loan officers, strengthening lendingpolicies and procedures, putting inplace the
prerequisitesfor the accounting, risk management and management information systems,
supporting subloan application preparation, screening and decision-making, and
supporting subloan monitoring and collections.

This assistancewill combine an IT-basedsubloan and portfolio management software
with intensive training of loanofficers. The training component ofthe credit technology
package will enable loan officers to: (i)       assess creditworthiness and credit risks of MSE
borrowers and to structure subloans most appropriate to their needs; (ii)          build
relationships with borrowers and (iii) the credit management software for due
                                             apply
diligence on a mass-market, low cost basis while keepingarrears low and implement
robust monitoring systems.

Since the success o f the credit facility depends on application o f this technology, PFIs
will have accessto funds under the credit facility only ifthey enter into a Technical
CooperationAgreement with CDB. To helppromote the attractiveness o f the TA and
maximize CDB influence over its scope and effectiveness, the TCA will include an

23The consultingfirm, InternationalProject Consult (IPC) has already been selectedand appointed for an
initial periodof two years, in accordance with procedures acceptableto the Bank. Additional needs will be
assessed duringproject implementation.


                                                                                                       31

undertaking for CDB to provide TA services to the PFIs. Underthis component, CDB
will provide services from the PIC to the PFIs free of charge for at least six months, and
up to two years during the initial project implementation period. Thereafter, CDB and
the PFIs will arrive at a mutually satisfactory cost sharing arrangement. CDB has
indicated an interest inexploring a TA-only approachfor those PFIs that are motivated in
acquiring the MSE lending technology and institution building but are not inneedof
funding, outside this project, and this model holds the potential of expanding outreachto
MSEsinaddition to in-project arrangements.

This component will also include a provision for additional advisory servicesfor CDB,
including for building up its skills for commercial bank appraisal, assessment and
monitoring, building up CDB's in-house advisory capacity for MSElending and other
purposesrelating to the project objectives. This would also be beneficial for CDB's
future dealings with commercial banks inChina inits role as awholesale development
finance institution, as mentioned above.

CDB is inthe processof further strengtheningthe capacity of the MBU,options
including providing it with greater independence, adequate resourcesand staffing, to
enable it to effectively and efficiently manage the MSEfinance project. The decision
was prompted by the growing needs for project management, PFI selection and
monitoring work, and anticipated demand for MSElending advisory services.

             Box 4: Credit Technology and Its PotentialImpactson MSE Lending

The credit technology beingintroducedinthis project is preciselytailoredto the specific
conditionsof MSEs, who are considered risky by commercial banks becausethey do not havethe
financial statements and collateralrequiredby both lenders and bank regulators.Apart from this
issue of "informality", banks are doubtful about the profitability becauseofthe small average
loan sizes versus a block of fixed costs which is not too different from other lendingoperations.
Unit costs for producinga MSE loan are similar to those of a bigger loan.The MSE lending
technology being propagatedunder this project is an amalgamation of "best practices"developed
and established in successhlMSE loan programs around the world, includingthose intransition
economies.The technology in essence managesto deal with the informality of the target group, to
reducetransaction costs in lending, to allow for simple and highly efficient lendingprocedures
and to provideeffective internalcontrol mechanisms.Main features ofthis technologyincludes
the analysis ofthe borrowers ability and willingness(incentives)to repay:
7
  1
        Credit analysis focuses on the borrower's ability to repay, primarily by makinga realistic
        calculationofthe cash flows ofthe business.The loan officer obtains the data neededto
        carry out a comprehensive cash flow analysis first-handby visiting the loan applicant's
        businesspremises. In order to gain a realisticassessment ofthe applicant's business, loan
        officers insist on inspectingthe borrower's parallel internalbookkeepingand obtain
        undocumentedbusinessdata through interviews.Loan officers are given special training
        in usinga company's internalaccountstogether with their own calculationsof sales
        figures to arrive at a realisticassessmentofthe enterprise's capacity to repay the loan it
        has applied for. Loan officers are also trained to cross-checkthe client's (informal)
        financial informationon consistency and plausibility.In essence, this constitutes the
        major differenceto common bank lendingpractices indeveloped markets or corporate
        lending, where the collectionof informationis easier (e.g. due to the presenceof audited


                                                                                                 32

       financial statements, credit bureaus, ratings, credit histories,account information,etc.).
I--
       The credit assessmentgives due considerationto the specific characteristics ofthe
       applicant's business.When applications are filed by relatively large-scaleclients, the loan
       officer not only analyses the firm's balance sheet andprofit and loss account, but also
       performs cash-flowanalyses and sensitivity analyses. Incases where the applications
       involve very small businesses most of which are not formalized
                                       -                                   - theemphasis of
       analysis shifts from the above formal analysis to the borrower'shousehold and his or her
       social environmentwhen makingthe credit decision. For such clients cash-flowsbetween
       the businessandthe social environment are impossibleto separate. Therefore, the
       businessandthe social environment o fthe applicantare analyzed as one economic unit.

       For the purpose of analyzingthe borrower's willingnessto repay the loan, loan officers
       will examine the social environment and reputationofthe borrowers.The pure fact that
       the borrowers receives ongoing access to finance from a formal financial institution
       (bank) represents a positive repayment incentive: Clients are offered longer term loans
       and bigger amounts on better terms in case they repay their first loan(s) duly andwithout
       any delays.

       Collateralis not insisted upon in micro loans. Ifcollateralor third party guarantees are
       requested(bigger amounts, first time borrowers, businesseswith very short track record)
       its main function is  - again -to providerepayment incentives.Therefore, the subjective
       value o f collateral items (from the viewpoint of the borrower) is more importantthan the
       market value or liquidity. This is particularthe case for specific businessassets. Other
       assets frequently used in micro lending(such as householdassets) are valued at
       replacement value.

       Each loan officer bearsfull responsibilityfor the institution'srelationshipto the client
       throughout the entire life ofthe loan, includinganalysis, disbursement, monitoringand
       enforcement, again addinganother factor to the chain of incentivesfor both, effective
       loan processingand repayment.

       A low default rate is vitally importantfor the sustainabilityofthe program. Inadditionto
       high-quality credit analysis, intensive monitoringby individually responsible loan
       officers is a key factor in ensuringgood repayment performance. Successfulmicrocredit
       providersneedto practice a very highdegree of discipline and clearly and quickly
       communicateto the target group that late payments are not accepted.

     m Loan officers are paid performance-basedsalaries; their compensation is a functiono f
       their productivityand the quality oftheir work. To ensure outreach ofthe program, the
       compensation scheme gives emphasisto the number of disbursementsratherthanthe
       volume of loans.

       MISis also critical to projectmanagementandrisk controls. A powerfulsoftware
       package is utilized to support credit decision-making, managethe loanportfolio and
       supply informationto middleand senior management.The MIS also drastically reduces
       transaction costs in lending, since almost the complete loan documentation is
       electronicallyprocessed.All analyticaltools are highly standardized and supportedby IT.

       Ifthe mainelements ofthetechnology are appliedconsistently, loandelinquencycanbe
       kept at a very low leveland MSE lendingcan be profitable.


                                                                                                33

     .  Product design aims at the right mix of standardization and flexibility, as reflectedinthe
        maturity structure and lendinginterest rates, to ensure efficiency inunderwritingand
        disbursement and creditrisk controls. Fixedmonthly repayment serves as a usefultool of
     .  monitoringborrower's repayment capacity.

        Buildinglong-termrelationshipwith the clientsto bothreducetransaction cost of lending
        andto provide incentives for borrowers to repay loans on time.

Bankingis a people's business.To be successhlinMSE lending, it is most importantthat banks
build institutional and humancapacity and make necessary changes in policies, proceduresand
compensation schemes. Thus technicalassistance is essential to get a PFIstarted and remain on
track.

The downscalingapproach is designedto provide existingcommercialbanks with the funding
and the technical know-howthey need in order to be able to grant loansto MSEs on a mass-
market and commercially sustainablebasis. A downscalingprojecttypically consists oftwo
components: a technicalassistance (TA) component and a credit line.InprovidingTA, the task of
the long-terminstitutionbuildingexperts is to set up specializedMSE loan departments in
commercialbanks, and build up a loan portfolio that promisesto generate a stable flow of income
for the PFI.Experienceshows that if lendingto MSEs is conducted on a commercially viable
basis, PFIs have a clear incentiveto continue this lendingafter the project implementation
consultants leave.

Although conceived as an integralwhole, the downscalinginstitution-buildingprocesscan be
divided into discrete components.Successfulimplementationof a MSE loan department at a PFI
     .
dependson ensuring that the TA program covers all of the relevant areas, including:

        The success of an MSE loan department depends crucially on the quality oftraining
        given to local loan officers.Most of the loan officers are recruitedafresh from
        universitiesand outside the PFI. Examsand selection criteria havebeen developedto
        identify the right candidates. The loan officer trainingconsists oftheoreticalseminars
        and practicaltraining.Duringthe practicaltraining, the trainees gather experience in a
        real working environment, but do not normally deal with credit cases unsupervised. After
        loan officershave worked for 9-12 months under the supervision of the long-termexpert
        or a senior loan officer, they should be able to process loan applications on their own.
        Throughout the trainingperiod, lastingabout a year altogether, additionalseminars are

    .   held on specifictopics of relevanceto the loanofficers' work. Senior loan officers are
        trained at special seminars.

        Management retraining;developingtrainingcapabilities;implementinga management
        informationsystem; draftingguidelines for MSE lendingand implementinginternal
    .   audit.

        When setting up specialized credit departments, the credit advisers must ensurethat they
        are well integratedinto the businessprocessesof the PFI.The requisite"interface
        management", i.e. the management of the MSE loan department's interactionwith the
        various departments ofthe bank, includingthe bank's management, is a task that requires
        the advisers' and the local subcontractors' constant attention.This is the only way to
        ensurethat the bank increasinglycomes to regardMSE lendingas a legitimateproduct
        rankingequally with the other products in its range of services, andthat MSE loans are


                                                                                                34

    .   disbursedmore and more rapidly and inan increasinglycustomer-friendlymanner.

        At branch level, the new type of MSE loan departmenttypically consists of betweentwo
        and six loan officers, depending on the levelof demand, and a senior loan officer to
        oversee their activities.The senior loan officer is also responsiblefor trainingnew loan
        officers.Thejob ofthe ordinary loan officers is not only to process loan applications, but
        also to handle every step of the lendingprocesses. In each case, the decisionwhether or
        not to lend is taken by a creditcommittee, which for micro creditsbelowcertain
        threshold should consist of no morethan three membersand for small loans no morethan
        five members.The meetings of the credit committee are initially attendedby a long-term
        credit adviser. However, when the technicalco-operation project has come to an end, this
        committee will be capable of carrying on its work without externalassistance.The head
        of the credit department is responsiblefor monitoringthe loan portfolio, supportedby a
    .   purpose-designedmanagementinformationsystem (MIS), installedby the consultants.

        The newly established special MSE loan departments operate as profit centers, competing
        with other profit centers within the same bank. The task of MSE loan department is to
        attract suitable clients andprocesstheir applications as quickly as possible, and
        subsequently to monitorthe repaymentof each loan, while maintainingrequisiteportfolio
        quality standards.

The differencebetween the technology and practices in China can be illustratedinthe
following table.

 Lending practicesamong Chinese banks              Practices promoted by the MSEcredit
                                                   technology
 Loan approval mainly based on collateral or       Loanapproval basedon cash flow analysis
 guarantee                                         and debt capacity of client
 Credit analysis based on official                 Financialinformationis retrievedby loan
 documentation(financial statements)               officers by "auditing" and interviewingthe
                                                   borrowers and checkingthe information
                                                   gathered on consistency and plausibility.
 Excessivedocumentationrequirementsthat            Only core documents requiredand MSEs
 leadto hightransaction costs-and processing       have no difficulty presentingthem
 time
 Low interest rates without fees but with high     Market-basedlendingrateswhich tend to be
 hidden costs                                      higher than those to large borrowersbut
                                                   typically lower than those chargedby
                                                   informalmoney lenders
 Large loans usuallyover RMB 1 million             Micro and small loans with average loan size
                                                   of RMB 50,000
 Business plans and feasibility studies required Never request businessplans or feasibility
 which tend to turn MSEborrowers off as they       studies as they are not essential for the very
 usuallydo not have them                           small borrowers
 Loan procedures are complex, involvemany          "Time to cash" is crucialto successfully
 departments and hierarchy levels, leadingto       competewith informalfinance providersand
 processingtimes of 3 monthsand more.              to reachsufficient lendingefficiency.
                                                   Typically, loans are disbursed in 1-3 days
                                                   after application.
 Short loan maturitieswith frequent rollover of Loanmaturitymatchedwith cash flow and



                                                                                                 35

loans                                          Idebt capacity and finance needs; norollover    I
                                                of debt
Loanofficers have incentives to go after large  Loanofficers are motivatedto lendto MSEs
corporate borrowers to disburse large loans     with small loans, and incentives are built in
                                                their compensation schemes accordinglyto
                                                disburse loans and ensurerepayment
                                                Flexibility in collateralrequirements allows
                                                items of emotionalvalue tb qualify as
                                                collateralwhose evaluationis conductedby
                                                loan officers
Bullet repayment of loansmakingit difficult     Equalmonthly installmentloans serve as a
for the lender to incentiviseand monitor the    monitoringas well as an incentivedevice
borrowers




                                                                                             36

                                                                    Attachment 1to Annex 4

                    EligibilityCriteria for Selection of PFIs (by CDB)

To participate inthe project, and qualify as a PFI, a financial institutionwill needto meet
a set o f operational and financial criteria that have been agreed with the Bank, and to
have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement and a Technical CooperationAgreement with
CDB. The Technical Cooperation Agreement will, inter alia, reflect the PFI's
management interest in and commitment to servicing the MSEmarket, willingness to
strictly adopt and adhere to prescribed policies and procedures, commitment to hire and
train new loan officers, and to utilize the TA Facility o f the project.

CDB will monitor the performance o f the PFIs to ensure continued eligibility throughout
the project implementation. Inits initial screening of PFIs, CDB has identified banks that
have been accorded the top two ratings by CBRC to individual CCBs. CBRC's rating
system is based on a comprehensive review o f financial condition, management
capabilities, portfolio quality and internal control systems. As CBRC's rating system
could be changed, this criterion may be revisedas appropriate to ensure that the same
requirementsare met. The other criteria that mustbe met by a potential PFI include the
following:

General

         Be insubstantial compliance with all the prudential and regulatory requirements
         o f CBRC, acceptable to the Bank;
         Be registeredAicensed in China to undertake banking operations;
         Have an appropriate governance structure with independence and capacity to
        provide adequate supervision to management and control over the bank's lending
        decisions to shareholders;
        Have financial reports for the past two years, audited by a reputable auditing firm
        that i s acceptable to the Bank, inaccordance with Chinese auditing standards;
        Agree to establish a separate MSEfinance department, with the necessary staff,
        physical and other resources, to manage and implementlendingoperations under
        this project.

Financial

        Be incompliance with CBRC regulations, including:
    .
    ..  Have and maintain an IAS calculated risk weighted capital adequacy ratio o f not
        less than 8 percent;
        Be fully compliant with loan loss provisioning requirementsaccordingto the
    .   CBRC prudential regulations, including an NPL ratio (as a percentage o f total
        assets) not exceeding 8 percent;
        Be in full compliance with PBC's statutory reserve requirements;
        Limit exposure to a single, related or connected borrower to apercentage of the
        PFI's total capital, as definedby the CBRC and inline with international best
        practices.


                                                                                          37

.Have a positive net income for the current andprevious fiscal years, as reflected
 inthe audited financial statements




                                                                                 38

                                                                 Attachment 2 to Annex 4

                                  Terms and Conditionsof
                         AgreementbetweenCDB and the Bank

Initial and ongoing compliance with applicable laws and regulations issuedby the
Chinese authorities, as well as compliance with the prudential eligibility criteria.

For the duration o f the project implementationperiod, beginningwith year end 2007,
submissiono f an audit report, that is: (i) prepared inaccordance with International
Standards o f Auditing and InternationalFinancial Reporting Standards; and (ii)    has an
unqualified audit opinion from a reputable international auditing firm, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree.

CDB will on-lend the funds under the MSE Finance Project,Credit Facility to PFIs
(selected according to eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank) using Subsidiary Loan
Agreements (SLAs). All critical conditions o fthe SLAs are subject to prior review by
the Bank.

For the duration o f the project implementation period, CDB will maintain the MBU, with
appropriately qualified staff, led by a full-timemanager, capable to satisfactorily
implementall aspects of the project.

CDB will monitor the performance o f the project on a quarterly basis, usingperformance
indicators agreed with the Bank and will provide the Bank with semi-annual progress
reports, in a format agreed with the Bank

CDB will also carefully monitor the performance o f PFIs to ensure that they do not have
excessive NPLs. CDB will also ensure that the average size o f MSE loan portfolio o f
PFIs is maintained within RMB 50,000, except otherwise agreed by the Bank. Provisions
will be built into the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to allow CDB to apply penalties, such
as imposing a moratorium on processing new subloans (ifNPLs exceed 3 percent for
more than two successive quarters) until a remedial plan has been approved by CDB, or,
inextremis, cancelling the line of credit to the PFI and demand immediate full repayment
o f the outstanding balance.

CDB will undertaketo maintain and oversee the services o f the PIC and not make any
changes without the prior agreement o f the Bank

CDB will assume overall responsibility to ensure the environmental soundness o f the
project. For that purpose, CDB will put inplace policies, procedures and guidelinesas
well as organizational capacity as necessaryto implement the framework at the PFI level.




                                                                                         39

                                                                   Attachment 3 to Annex 4

                Terms and Conditionsof Subsidiary LoanAgreements
                                 (Between CDB and PFIs)

The following terms and conditionswill be reflectedinthe SubsidiaryLoanAgreements
to be entered into betweenCDB and the PFIs:

   I   All Subsidiary Loan Agreements will be subject to prior review by the Bank
   8    The PFIwill enter into a technical cooperationagreement with CDB
   8   The PFIis and will remainincompliance with applicablelaws and regulations
       issuedby the Chinese authorities as well as incompliancewith prudential
       eligibility criteria
   I   Subsidiary loanwill be denominatedin RMB,except under circumstanceswhere
       foreign currency loans are demanded by MSEs
   8   Interestrates from CDB to PFIswill be set inaccordance with marketprinciples
       to ensure profitability of PFIs
   8   Maturity of subsidiary loanof upto 10 years, inclusiveof a grace periodof up to
       5 years
   8   The PFIwill keep MSE subloans fundedunder the credit facility separate and
       distinct from the rest of their loanportfolios
   8   The PFIwill establishnew MSE finance departmentsat headquartersand
       designatedbranches to manage the MSE subloans under this facility
   I   The PFIwill establishcredit committeesto approve subloans underthis program
   I   The PFIwill ensure that non-performingsubloans (NPLs) under the line of credit
       do not exceed 3%
   I   MSE lendingperformancewill be subject to evaluationby CDB (usingcredit
       evaluationguidelines as agreed with the Bank) reflectedinCDB's Operational
       Manual
   I   The funds availableto PFIwill dependon the availabilityo f funds to CDB from
       the Bank and KfW
   I   Subloans to MSEswill be made inRMB, except incircumstanceswhere foreign
       currency loans are demanded
   8   Subloans to MSEs will be evaluatedusingthe credit technology designedfor the
       project
   I   Minimum subloansize of RMB 100; maximumRMB 500,000, except as the
       Bank may otherwiseagree
   I   Maximummaturityof subloanof up to 3 years
       The PFIwill charge interest rates adequate to cover its cost of borrowingfrom
       CDB plus a reasonable risk-adjustedspread andprofit margin. The interestrate
       will be positive inrealterms and will be set as an integralpart ofproductdesign
       with the assistance o fthe PIC.
   8   PFIwill be responsiblefor ensuringthat MSEsub-borrowerscomply with
       applicableWorld Bankprocurementrules; applicableChinese environmental
       legislatiodregulations,as well as the Bank policy on environmentalassessment
   8   PFIs will be responsiblefor environmentaldue diligenceto mitigatenegative
       environmentalimpacts.


                                                                                       40

...Remedies and penaltiesto be applied by CDB inthe event that a PFI fails to
   comply with requirements.
   PFI will retain all documentation relating to subloans, provide regular reports to
   CDB
   Inthe event a PFI is unableto repaythe subsidiary loans, the MSEborrowers will
   repay their subloans directly to CDB




                                                                                     41

                                                                  Attachment 4 to Annex 4

     Compliancewith BankPolicyon FinancialIntermediaryLending(OP 8.30)

The project design is fully compliant with the Bank operations policy on financial
intermediary lending, as contained in OP 8.30.

Macroeconomicpolicies and sectoral conditions. China has beencommendedby outside
observers including the Bank and the Fund as having maintained balanced
macroeconomic policies and conditions, with fast GDP growth, low inflation, as well as
sustainable fiscal and external accounts. Exchange rates are increasingly flexible and
lending interest rates are liberalized, except for RCCs and UCCs. WTO commitments
are beinghonored and foreign participation inChinese financial institutions has made fast
inroads inrecent years. Overall there i s no macroeconomic or sectoral policies that
constrain commercial microfinance inChina.

PFI selection and eligibility criteria. CDB is committed to working with only safe and
sound financial intermediaries under the project. Selection criteria consistent with the
requirementsofthe Bank and prudentialregulations have beenintroduced and tested
duringon-site evaluation o f the first group o f PFIs. These criteria consist o f explicit
quantitative requirements(capital adequacy, profitability, portfolio quality, liquidity) and
qualitative requirements(corporate governance, risk management, internal controls and
quality o f management), satisfactory to the Bank. Standardized report templates have
beendeveloped to aid the work o f PFI evaluation.

Inaddition, commendable efforts have beenmade to ensure enforcement and
implementation o f the criteria. A special unit has been created within the MBUto take
charge o f PFI selection and monitoring, Staff o f the unit have gone through intensive
on-site training by international consultants during the evaluation o f several PFIs. Inthe
event a candidate PFI does not meet the criteria in full, a time-bound corrective action
plan (CAP) will be agreed upon betweenthe CDB and the PFI, subject to Bank clearance.
Already, the first two pilot banks, BCB and TCB, have undergone the process of
intensiveevaluation and the formulation o f CAPS.

CDB will seek Bank approval before entering into TCAs and subsidiary loan agreements
with PFIs.

Subsidies, interest rates, and on-lending terms. Consistent with the PDO, the project
does not envision subsidiesthrough lending interest rates. The lending interest rates
charge to PFIs by CDB will be based on credit and risk rating o f the PFIs. At a minimum,
these will be positive inreal terms and provide a rate o f return close to CDB's current
returnon average loan assets. The PFIs will determineMSEsubloan interest rates. These
rates will cover the PFI's cost o f borrowing and operational expenses, plus a reasonable
risk-adjusted spread and a decent profit margin. The interest rate will be set as an integral
part of product design and will be determinedwith the assistanceof the PIC. No credit
subsidiesor government-sponsored guarantee programs are envisaged underthis project.



                                                                                           42

Under the TA component, CDB will provide technical assistance to PFIs for institution
capacity building free of charge up to two years, beyond which cost-sharing
arrangements will be agreedbetweenthe PFI and CDB, ifneeded. CDB plans to recover
the TA costs through the Credit Facility inabout 5 years. Therefore overall and inthe
medium- to long-term, CDB will not incur losses under this project.

Monitoring arrangements. Provisions have beenmade for effective monitoring of
institution performance at both CDB and PFI levels, through regular supervision reports.
A PFIwill be declared ineligible to continue underthe project ifit deviates from the
performancebenchmarksprovided inthe TCA and subsidiary loan agreements, as well as
the CAP.

Directed credit. The root causes that prevent MSEs from accessing formal credit in
China are multiple and complex, one of which was banks' continued reluctance and
inability to lend to micro and small borrowers, which are perceived as risky. One of the
objectives of this project i s to provide clear incentives and free TA to banks to help them
divert from traditional lending methods, by adopting a modern lending "philosophy" and
methods. The project hopes to demonstratethe commercial sustainability o f lending to
MSEs, with the ultimate goal of nationwide outreachandupscaling. Inthis sense, the
element of directed credit and free TA have clear and strong economicjustifications in
view of the economic importance and potential of MSEs, being constrainedby
insufficientaccess to finance.

Consultation with the IFC. The project has received IFC support from the very outset, as
a key member of the IFC team in China has acted as a Peer Reviewer of the PCN and
PAD. While IFC has been active in working with banks in China, it is recognizedthat it
i s not positioned to lend to a policy bank as a wholesaler as envisioned under this project.




                                                                                           43

                                                                 Attachment 5 to Annex 4

How Micro and Small EnterprisesAre DefinedUnder this Project?

China's banking industryand the regulatory authority define micro and small businesses
usingthe same standard set by the National Bureau o f Statistics. The definition o f small
businesses i s based on industry,number o f employees, annual sales and total assets. In
general, it defines firms with annual sales less than RMB30 million as small businesses,
with numberof employees ranging from as low as 100 (inwholesale industry)to as high
as 600 (inconstruction industry). This definition i s comparable with the definition used
by the United States Small BusinessAdministration (SBA).

There is no official definition of micro businesses inChina. But most o f the individual
commercial and industrial enterprises tend to be micro and small, with less than 100
employees and sales o f less than RMBl00 million. It should be pointed out that under
the MSEfinance project, the loanproducts developed by the PFIs will have a self-
selection function, inthe sense that large borrowers will not be attracted by the lower end
o f the MSE loans, with the average o f RMB 50,000. This is consistent with international
practice. Inaddition to classify businesses by their size, banks around the world often
use loan size to define small business loan market as well. While recognizing that large
firms may apply and receive small loans occasionally, this method provides a good proxy
to track small business credit supply and demand ina given market.For example, banks
inthe UnitedStates are requiredby regulationto report their business loans under US
$100,000 and loans between US $100,000 and US $1 millioninseparate categories.
Banks, regulators, and government agencies often use this information to evaluate micro
and small businessaccess to bank credit.

The Bank has a more refineddefinition o fmicro and small businesses (see the table
below) where the threshold points are much lower than the official government definition.

The Bank Definition of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises(MSMEs)

      Enterprise             Employees                                    Annual Sales
        Micro                    1-10             <TotalAssets
                                                    US $1 Million        <US $1 Million
        Small                   11-50             US $1-$3 Million      US $1-$3Million
        Medium                 5 1-300           US$3-$15 Million

The project has the following qualifying conditions for MSEborrowers:

      (a)   Borrowers must be micro or small enterprises, firms, businesses, self-
            employed people, or other legal entities formed, which meet the following
            criteria:

          (i) Havemajority privateownershipandcontrol.Thetotalpercentage ofState
               ownership in a borrower cannot be greater than forty-nine percent (49%)
               and the State cannot be directly or indirectly involved in day-to-day



                                                                                         44

    management and cannot have any majority authority in directing the
     Borrower's affairs.

(ii)Start-upBorrowersmusthaveatleastthirtypercent(30%)contributionsin
     cash or inkindfor the project to be financed and/or the loan purpose.

  In addition, a Borrower receiving a subloan shall typically not employ more
  than 100 staff, including fill time management. Inexceptional circumstances
  in which a Borrower's business is particularly labour intensive or in which
  the Borrower is arepeat client which has grown duringthe Project. Borrowers
  employing more than 100 staff may be considered for financing subject to
  closer scrutiny by the lendingPFI.

  Micro and Small Enterprises may be in the production, service and trade
  sectors. Use o f funds may include investmentprojects; service sector projects;
  working capital requirements; purchase o f cars, vans, trucks or equipment for
  the conduct of business intrade, production, or service.

  Subloans cannot be used to finance any o f the following: production or trade
  o f arms or military equipment; production or trade involving endangered
  species; production o f tobacco; casinos or other gambling facilities;
  speculation in currencies; speculation in real estate; or investments in
  securities o f any kind; or activities that harm the environment, in accordance
  with the applicable national and municipal legislationregulating environment
  and the Environmental Assessment Framework under this project.




                                                                              45

                                               Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                             China: Micro and Small EnterpriseFinanceProject

                                                   WB             KfW         CDB and PFI           Total
                   Cost By Component          US$ million      US$million       US$ million      US$ million

         Component 1:
                   Credit Facility                        95              50             554               699
         Component 2
                   TA Facility                             5            3.78           11.22                20
         OperatingCosts                                                                  4.75             4.15

                      Total Project Costs                                                             723.75*
                             Front-endFee                NA                                                NA
              Total Financing Required                                                                 723.75

     * This project cost consists o f three components:credit facility,TA facility andoperating costs, but only
     credit facility and TA facility are eligible for usingthe funds from WB and KfW.CDB will cover the
     operatingcosts with its own funds. The amount of credit facility is calculatedbasedon the projectedMSE
     subloan portfolioof all the PFIs(takingthe reuseof the loanhnds into consideration,we use the volume of
     outstandingloans at the end of year 5, which is estimatedto be RMB5519million, or US$699million, as
     the total credit facility.

                                       Projectionof MSE BusinessGrowth

                                             2006        2007        2008         2009        2010          June 2011
Number of PFIs                                        6         12          14          16             18           18
Number of branches                                  13          44          66          99           149           149
Number of LOs                                       80        265          398         596           894           894
Productivity (the numberof loans                      7          8           9          10             11           11
disbursedper LO per month)
number of loans disbursed during                 3360       13600       33390        55650       91823          91823
each year
volume o f loans disbursed during                  168        680         1670        2783         459 1         4591
each year (in RMB millions)
Percentage increase inthe number                   N A      305%         146%         67%           65%            0%
of loans disbursed
Cumulative number of loans                      3360        16960       50350       106000      197823         197823
disbursed
Cumulative volume of loans                         168        848         2518        5300         9891          9891
disbursed(in RMB millions)
Number of loans outstanding                                             37923                                  110373
Volume of loans outstanding(in
RMB millions)                                                                   I           I             I
Cumulative number of borrowers                              13200       40100   I    72300  I   119600    I    119600




                                                                                                               46

                       Projection of MSE Subloans and EstimatedDisbursements

Year                                 2006                       2007                        2008
Quarter                     Q1    Q2      43    4 4    Q1    4 2    43     4 4   Q1       Q2     Q3   Q4
Volume of disbursed
subloans (in millions of
RMB)                          6     25      68   69    120    140   180    240    300     370    450  550
Volume of disbursed
subloans (in millions of
USdollars)                     1     3       9    9     15     18    23     30     38      47     57   70
Disbursementof IBRD
loan (in millions of US
dollars)                                                                    44             56
      Credit facility                         KfW loan                     (42)           (53)
       TA facility                            KfW grant                     (2)            (3)

    Note: The estimated disbursement schedule is basedon the assumptionthat the KfW finding will
    be fully utilized by the second quarter of 2007 under both the Credit and TA facilities, and that
    the Bank loan proceedswill be disbursed in the ensuing4 quarters from July 2007 to June 2008,
    in two installments. It is assumedthat undrawnamount from the Bank loan underthe TA facility

    faci1ity.
    will be transferredto the Credit facility. CDB will cover the remaining costs under the TA




                                                                                                     47

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                     China: Micro and SmallEnterpriseFinanceProject


The Ministry o f Finance (MOF), as the representative o fthe People's Republic o f China
(PBC), will be the Borrower o f the Bank loan. M O F will pass the funds on to CDB on the
same terms and conditions, and with the same maturity, as the Bank loan. The CDB will
be responsible for implementation of all components o f the project. It will be directly
responsible for implementation o f the TA Facility and will pass on funds for lendingto
MSEsthrough eligible PFIs. The project will be implementedover about 5 years.

A Memorandum of Understanding dated October 12,2005 has beenenteredinto as a
basis for the collaboration betweenthe Bank and KfW for this project. To facilitate
implementation, and avoid any duplication o f efforts, it has been agreedthat, to the extent
possible, KfW will rely on the same project implementationprocedures and practices as
the Bank.

CDB has beenselected as the wholesaling institution based on its management's strong
commitment to the project, nationwide reach and financial capacity (see Annex 9 for
further details on CDB). To carry out the project, CDB has already established a MBU
and business linethat involves lendingand arranging for technical support to PFIs for the
purpose o f on-lending to the target MSE clientele. It has also undertaken extensive
awareness raising and marketing programs. The MBUi s staffed by CDB professionals
recruited competitively and received rigorous training inMSE lending, and has
established close working relationship with relevant government agencies including the
CBRC.

The MBUis headed by a senior official of CDB with the rank o f Director General who
reports to a CDB Deputy Governor. The MBUhas three sections: project management,
PFI selection and monitoring, and MSEfinance advisory services. The project
management section i s responsible for day-to-day project management and
administration matters (including environmental management and financial management,
procurement and r e ~ o r t i n g ) .The PFI section i s incharge o f PFI screening, evaluation,
                                       ~ ~
selection and monitoring. The MSE lending advisory services section i s expected to help
future PFIs in institution building and MSEcredit administration, similar to the PIC.
Fifteen staff members from within CDB have already been recruited into the MBUand
addition staff members are being selected based on well-definedcriteria. The staff has
undergone international training inmanagement o f MSE lending operations. CDB
received assistance (as part o f project preparation) from international consultants in
developing the institutional capacity to undertake the proposed bu~iness.~'




24Currently, this section has 3 staff and actions are inprocess to appoint additional personnel.
25Both resident and short-termconsultants, financed through the Bank's Technical CooperationCredit IV
((TCP IV (CR.3212iLN.4473-CHA) SubprojectNo. B3), provided assistanceto CDB in project
preparation.


                                                                                                    48

The functions ofthe MBUinclude the following:
         Evaluate commercial banks' potential to engage effectively and commercially as
         MSE finance retailers,
         Carry out the due diligence o f potential PFIs to assess their eligibility to
         participate inthe project and monitor their continued compliance with the criteria,
         Enter into contractual relationships with PFIs to provide financing to support
         MSE loandemand,
         Arrange for the provision o f TA to PFIs to provide incentives and support
         establishment of MSE finance business lines inthe PFIs to help them perform
         effectively as MSE finance retailers,
         Monitor PFI institutional development progress and MSElendingperformance,
         Take appropriate action where progress/performance does not meet expectations,
         Manage the overall portfolio o f subsidiary loans to PFIs for MSE finance
         Carry out project management, coordination and administration activities,
         including procurement, environmental assessment and financial management
         Disseminationo f project information and reporting to the Bank

To maintain the momentum that has been achieved during project preparation, CDB has
already started project activities on a pilot basis (see Box 5 for summary o f the pilot
development). It has entered into a contract with international consultants who are
responsible for the development and adoption o f the credit technology to be implemented
underthe project. The PIC will have a major role inputting into place a monitoring
system for all aspects of PFI MSE lendingperformance. A model Technical Cooperation
Agreement betweenCDB and the PFIs has also beenprepared and agreed with the Bank.
Agreements have already beenconcluded with 5 CCBs, three o f which have participated
inthe project as PFIs and, with the helpofthe PIC, pilot lending to MSEsis beingtested.

As part o fproject preparation and to prepare for early project start-up, detailed criteria
(with a reporting template) have beendeveloped and agreed with the Bank for the due
diligence that CDB will conduct to appraise potential PFIs. The assessment will be based
upon a review o f documentation, including audited financial statements, and meetings
with PFI senior management as well as key managers and staff. The mechanismhas
been tested by performing a due diligence o f two potential PFIs (carried out jointly by
CDB, the Bank and KfW). Under the project, advisory services have beenprovided to
help CDB appraise additional PFIs, and the goal is to keepbuildingup CDB capacity in
this critical areauntilit has sufficient skills to conduct PFI selection and monitoring
independently. Throughout project implementation, CDB will be responsible for
monitoring continued compliance with the financial and operational criteria and
benchmarks agreed with the Bank.

PFIs will be responsible for on-lending to MSEs (with the guidance o f the PIC) in local
currency. As no subloan i s expected to exceed RMB 500,000, there will be no prior
review by the Bank or CDB of subloans. Reviewswill take place only duringthe course
o f regular project monitoring and supervision. All the critical conditions inthe




                                                                                           49

Subsidiary Loan Agreement between CDB and the PFIs are subject to prior review by the
Bank.
CDB has prepared an Operational Manual, incorporating financial management, PFI
selection and environment assessmentfor the project, as well as details on PFI selection
and monitoring. The draft Operational Manual was provided to the Bank for reviewprior
to Negotiations and will be agreed with the Bank before effectiveness. Approval and
adoption by CDB of the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition
o f effectiveness.


                        Box 5: Summary of Developmentsunder the Pilot

    The pilot started intwo PFIs, BaotouCommercialBank and TaizhouCommercialBank,
    at about the start of 2006, when the projectimplementationconsultantswere deployedto
    assist the PFIs in institutional development and HR capacity building. The third PFI,
    JiujiangCommercialBankjoined in late 2006. Intensiverecruitmentefforts ledto over
    150 trainees hired from graduating universitystudents, who lateron were put through a
    series of basic trainingcourses, bothin classrooms and on-the-job,before engaging in
    MSE lendingunder the supervision of seasoned microfinanceexperts.

    Duringthe initial stage of implementation, separate MSE lendingdepartments at boththe
    headoffice and branch levels were set up inthe respectivepilot banks. Standardized
    micro and small loan productswere developed, marketed, and proceduresand policiesput
    in placeto implementthe project. Incentives were introducedfor bothcredit officers and
    clients. Overall, implementationhas been satisfactory in all three PFIs. By the end of
    April, 2007, about 7,953 micro and small loans were disbursed, amountingto over RMB
    453 million, and 6,753 loans were outstanding. In all, 125 credit officers activelyengaged
    in lendingactivities. The outstandingvolume of arrears over 30 days were less than 0.2
    percent, involving only 3 loans which were overdue for less than 15 days.

    The monitoringreports show development ofMSE business in TCB, BCB, andJCB. And
    the performanceof MSE lendingin TCB, BCB and JCB is summarized in the following
    table.




    * Loan officers excludetrainees with  3 months experience

    The total 7953 loans disbursed benefited over 7000 MSEcustomers (and 6626 ofthem are
    now still outstanding). About 70% of the borrowers haveno borrowingexperiences from
    banks before, and 54% never borrowed at all. 61.2% of the loans were usedfor working
    capital andthe rests for fixed assets or for mixedpurposes. The lendinginterest rates were
    about 15% in TCB and 18% in BCB and JCB, and the variation reflectedlocal market




                                                                                              50

Monitoringand Evaluation

PFI monitoring will be undertakenby the MBUincollaboration with the PIC, based on
clearly identified benchmarksand performance indicators. Indicators to be reported
include, inter alia, the increase inthe number of subloans disbursed,the portfolio quality
(as measuredby the ratio o f arrears over thirty days), the profitability of MSEs ina
treatment group comparedwith those ina control group, the capacity of CDB to appraise
and monitor eligibility of participating financial institutions to engage inMSElending
under the project, the number of MSEborrowers, the number of CDB in-house experts
able to provide advisory servicesto PFIs on MSE lending, the average size of the MSE
loan portfolio, the number of PFIs that adopt the MSElending technology, andthe
number of new loan officers trained. CDB will also monitor financial statements, audit
reports, expenses and other material information as it relatesto the MSE finance
departments. Further, CDB will develop screening and monitoring procedures and
criteria for safeguardspurposes.

An important part of the PIC'Swork will be to ensure that a robust system is put inplace
and implemented to monitor and evaluateprogress of the Credit Facility. This would
necessarily also reflect the results and effectivenessof the TA Facility. For this purpose,
an IT-based credit management system will be introduced under this project. Data to
monitor project outcomes and results will thus be generatedas an integral part of the day-
to-day business of the PFIs. This system has beenvalidated inother countries and has
proven effective in(i)lowering the cost and time of credit decision-making and
monitoring; (ii)   enabling risk basedpricing; (iii)     managing an MSE loan book consisting
of a large number of MSE subloans; (iv) quantifying subloan portfolio assessments; and
(iv) enhancing the quality, timeliness and consistencyof information supplied to
management.

PFIs will be required under the terms of the Subsidiary Loan andthe Technical
Cooperation Agreements to submit to CDB monthly Operations Reports for each branch
with an MSE finance department set up under the project. CDB will receive more
detailed uarterly reports, containing both quantitative and qualitative information, from
the PIC.2' Inaddition, CDB will provide regular quarterly reportsto the Bank on overall
project progress.

The Bank is working with CDB to set up a monitoring and evaluation researchprogram
that would measure the impact of the MSE lending program on the welfare of MSE
borrowers, through a survey study. The researchprogram envisions monitor and evaluate
the results on the MSEsinthe treatment group with those ina control group. The
research program will be separately funded by the Bank, andparticipation of PFIs inthe
survey study will be on voluntary basis. It is hopedthat this study could serve to
evaluate the efficiency of the credit technology adopted, economic and financial benefits


26Reporting formats, developedwith the assistance of the PIC, have been agreed with the Bank and will be
incorporated in the OperationalManual.


                                                                                                     51

derivedby MSEs andprovide an assessment o f whether this approachto MSEfinance is
what is needed by the MSEs and whether it is commercially sustainable.




                                                                                52

          Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                  China: Micro and Small EnterpriseFinanceProject

Summary of the FinancialManagementAssessment

1.      The Financial Management Specialist (FMS) has conducted an assessment o fthe
adequacy o f the project financial management system o f the Micro and Small Enterprise
(MSE)Finance Project. The assessment, basedon guidelinesissued by the Financial
Management Sector Board on November 3,2005, has concludedthat the project meets
the minimumBank financial management requirements,as stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. In
the FMS' opinion, the project will maintainthe financial management arrangements
acceptable to the Bank and, as part o f the overall arrangements that the borrower has in
place adequate mechanisms that can provide reasonable assurance that the proceeds o f
the loan will be usedfor the purpose for which the loan is granted. Financial
management risk i s the risk that World Bank loan proceeds will not be usedfor the
purposes intendedand i s a combination o f country, sector and project specific risk factors.
Taking into account the risk mitigationmeasures proposed under the project, the FMrisk
rating proposed for this project during the appraisal stage i s modest.

2.      Funding sources for the project include Bank loan, KfW bank loan and grant, and
counterpart funds. The Bank loan will be signed betweenthe Bank and the People's
Republic o f China through its Ministryo f Finance (MOF), and on-lending arrangements
for the Bank loan will be signedbetweenM O F and China Development Bank (CDB).
Counterpart funds will include internal funding from CDB and KfW bank loan and grant.

Audit Arrangement

1.      3.     The Bank requiresthat project financial statements be audited in
        accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank. Inline with other Bank
        financed projects in China, the project will be audited inaccordance with
        International Auditing Standards and the Government Auditing Standards o f the
        People's Republic o f China. The Audit Service Center o f CNAO for Foreign
        Loan and Assistance Projects has been identified as auditors for the project.
        Annual audit reports will be issuedinthe name of Audit Service Center o f CNAO
        for Foreign Loan and Assistance Projects. The Bank currently accepts audit
        reports issued by CNAO or its provincial/regional audit bureaus/offices for which
        CNAO i s ultimately responsible.
2.
3.      4.     The annual audit reports o f project financial statements will be due to the
        Bank within 6 months o f the end o f each calendar year as summarized below.
4.
       5.      Component           6.     Submittedby              7.     Duedate
 8.      Project Financial            9.      CDB               10.    June 30 o f each
          Statements                                                    calendar year




                                                                                          53

12. Inaddition, annual audit reports on financial position andoperating results of
    CDB will be due to the Bank within 6 months o f the end o f each calendar year.
    The financial statements for CDB are not fiduciary requirements, but rather for
    sustainability purposes. The requirementsfor these audits will not be included as
    part o f the loan covenant but rather included inthe Project Agreement.




                                                                                   54

                 FUNDS   FLOW DISBURSEMENT
                                AND                        ARRANGEMENTS



5.      The projectwill only use the reimbursementdisbursementmethod. The Bank
will reimburseexpenditureseligible for finance by the Bankpursuantto LoanAgreement
that CDB has pre-financedfrom its own bank accounts. The funds flow for the 2 project
componentsare as follows:
Chart 1 TechnicalAssistance Component FundsFlow and Procedures
        -

                                        World Bank

  ____,              Step 5
  Funds Flow

  ----+
                                                                          I
 Document Flow       Step 3                                               I
                                                                          I
                                                           Step 1         I

                    Contractors/Suppliers    - - - , - - - - - - - - - J




                                                                                   55

Chart 2 Credit FacilitiesFunds Flow and Procedures
         -

                                            World Bank

                                                                             tI
                            Step *    I                                      I       Step 7




                                            I
                                            I
                            Step 5          I   Step4
                                            I
                                            I
                                            I




                                                              -
                                            4
                            Step 5          I   Step 3



                                                                             Funds Flow
                            Step 2

                                    MSEs



                            Procedures for Credit FacilitiesComponent
          MSEs submit their loan requests to eligible PFIs.
          Eligible PFIs will approve and make loans to MSEs basedon verificationof
          repayment capacity of and loan requestsfrom MSEs.
          Eligible PFIs submit their loan requeststo CDB provincialbrancheswith proper
          supportingdocumentationaccording to the requirement of MSEFinanceAdvisory
          Service team.
          CDB provincialbrancheswill submit supportingdocumentation and make cash
          requestfrom CDB Operation Center.
          CDB Operation Center will remit funds to provincialbranchesfrom its own bank
          accountsafter verifying and approvingthe requests from provincialbranches. The
          provincialbranches will then transfer the funds to eligible PFIsafter verifying and
          approvingthe requests from PFIs.
          After CDB Operation Center remitsfunds to provincialbranches, CDB Operation
          Center will then informthe CDB MBUaboutthese payments.
          CDB MBUwill submit the WASto the Bank with requiredsupportingdocuments
          (e.g un-audited interim financialreports).
          The Bank will reimburseCDB andtransfer the money into a CDB bank account.

6.     The project will be disbursingusingreport-baseddisbursements,inaccordance
with the agreement betweenthe Bank, CDB and MOF. The disbursementof credit



                                                                                             56

facilities from the Bank will be based on the micro and small loans made from PFIsto the
end users rather thanfrom CDB to PFIs. The report format, content and frequency will be
decidedbefore project negotiation.




                                               Amount of the Loan         Percentageof
                                                     Allocated            Expenditures
                 Category                            (in USD)             to be financed
  15.      (1) Credit facility              16.    95,000,000              17.     80%
  18.      (2) Consulting services,          19.     5,000,000            20.      100%
           training and workshops
           Total                                   100,000,000

The sequence of disbursement of TA funds inrespect of their sources will be KfW, WB,
and finally CDB.

8.       The MBUand accounting department of CDB will be directly responsiblefor the
management, monitoring, maintenanceproject accounts. Un-audited interim financial
reports required for Bank disbursementswill be prepared, verified and approved by MBU
of CDB before sendingto the Bank for further disbursementprocessing.

Financial Management and Reporting Arrangements

21.      RiskAssessment and Mitigation

22.      9.      The following risks with correspondingmitigating measures have been
         identified luring the ssessment:
        Risk           Risk                 Incorporated Risk               Conditions of
                     Rating                Mitigating Measures              Negotiations,
                                                                              Board or
                                                                            Effectiveness
Inherent Risk
0   Country level   Moderate See the following mitigatingmeasures
                               utilized inthe project.
0   Entity Level    Moderate CDB financial staffs are new to Bank
                               financed projects, a well designedtraining
                               session shouldbe providedto them during
                               launchworkshop.

                               Detailfinancial managementand               Yes. Completed
                               disbursement procedures should be          FM Manualwill be
                               documented inthe project financial          an effectiveness
                               managementmanual, which can be the part        condition
                               o f Proiect oDeration manual.
0   ProiectLevel Moderate See the mitigatingmeasuresaddressedin



                                                                                         57

0                              control risk area below.
Control Risk
   Budgeting       Moderate The FMS will work with CDB on their
                               budgeting, execution and monitoring.
0  Accounting      Low         Accountingpoliciesand proceduresare
                               already in place. Checkingby the task
                               team at the initial implementationstage to
                               ensurethe accounting informationsystem
                               has beencorrectly set up. This should be
                               followedup by regular supervision
                               missions.
0  Internal        Low         Although not specificallyfocused on
   Control                     projectactivities, there are existing internal
                               controlsat CDB. A financial management
                               manualwill be preparedand issuedto
                               uniformly alignthe financial management
                               arrangement and disbursement
                               requirements.
0  FundsFlow       Moderate The task team will ensurethat mechanisms
                               will be in placeto ascertainBank loan and
                               counterpartfunds will be releasedto the
                               ultimatebeneficiaries on a timely basis and
                               avoid bottleneck in disbursements.
0  Financial       Moderate The format and content of project financial
   Reporting                   statements have beenstipulated by MOF
                               and the projectwill use them for project
                               financial reporting. The project financial
                               managementmanualwill also establish
                               such financialreportingrequirements
                               consistent with MOF's regulations and
                               guidance.
0  Auditing        Low         The external auditor, China National Audit
                               Office, has extensive experience with
                               Drevious Bank Droiects.
23.
Therefore, the overall F M risk-rating of this project at the appraisal stage is Moderate.
The FMS will monitor the project FMrisks during project implementation.

Implementing Entity

10.     The project will be managedby CDB. CDB has establisheda MBU,which is
responsiblefor management of this project and reportingto the Bank. MBUis comprised
of a director and 3 functional teams: PFI selection and monitoring, MSEfinance advisory
services and project management. The project managementteam will be responsible for
day-to-day project managementand administration matters includingfinancial
management, procurement and
reporting.




                                                                                          58

                             '   Director o f MBUat CDB




       PFI selection and            Project management            MSEfinance advisory
          monitoring



Budgeting

11.    The cost table has beenprepared for the project. The project will prepare its
annual implementation plan and the project's budgeting systemseems appropriate. The
FMS will will continuously work with the MBUon their budgetingsystem duringproject
implemenation.

Accounting and Reporting

12.    The administration, accounting and reporting o f the project will be set up in
accordance with the Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed
Projects" issued inJanuary 2000 by MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructions of
accounting treatment o f project activities and covers the following:


    0  Chart o f account
    0  Detailed accounting instructions for each project account
    0  Standard set o f project financial statements
    0  Instructions on the preparation o f project financial statements

The standard set ofproject financial statements mentioned above has beenagreed to betweenthe
Bank and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the
following:


    0  Project Balance sheet
    0  Statement o f source and use o f fund
    0  Statement o f implementation o f loan agreement
       Statement o f designated account, ifapplicable

13.    CDB will be responsible for:

    0  maintaining proper internal controls procedures for the project;
    0  managing, monitoring and maintaining project accounting records;
    0  retaining original supporting documents for all project activities; and
    0  preparingproject financial statements and submittingthem to the Bank for review
       and commentson a regular basis.



                                                                                      59

14.     Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work
experience commensurate with the work they are expected to perform i s one o f the
factors critical to successful implementation o f project financial management. Based on
review o f educational backgroundand work experience o fthe financial staff inCDB, the
FMS notes that their background and experience are appropriate to the work they are
expected to assume.

15.     To strengthenfinancial management capacity and achieve consistent quality o f
accounting work, the task team has suggestedthat a project financial management
manual (the Manual) be prepared, which can be the part o f project operation manual.
The Manual will provide detailed guidelines on financial management, internal controls,
accounting procedures, fund and asset management and withdrawal application
procedures. A draft o f the Manual will be submittedto the Bank for review once it i s
available. The Manual should be finalized and distributedto all the financial staff before
project effectiveness.

16.     As most of the financial staff are new to the Bank's project, a well-designedand
focused training program on project financial management should be provided prior to
project effectiveness to all financial and accounting staff to ensure a good understanding
and knowledge o f the following:

     0  Bank's financial management policy and disbursementprocedures
     0  Fund/asset/contract management
     0  Format and content of project financial statements
     0  Audit requirement

Internal Controls and Internal Auditing

17.     The related accounting policy, procedures and regulations were issuedby MOF
and a financial management manual will be prepared and issuedby CDB. The project
will followed these documents.

18.     We have not and will not assess the competency of the internal audit function in
CDB due to the codbenefit of doing such work although there i s an internal audit
department at CDB. As such, reliance will not be placed on work performed by them.
However, we would at least review internal audit reports as part o f our normal
supervision, ifnecessary; this could identify issues for our consideration and also provide
some support for the development o f the internal audit function.

Information System

19.     Computerized accounting software, which was developed and customized by a
professional software company for CDB, will be utilized for this project accounting. The
task team will closely monitor the processing o f its accounting work especially inthe
initial stage to ensure complete and accurate financial information could be timely
provided.



                                                                                         60

                  Action                     Responsible Entity     CompletionDate

 1. Interimfinancialreports format             CDB and WB           Beforenegotiation


 2. Finalisedfinancial management mannual            CDB           Beforeeffectiveness


Supervision Plan

21.     The supervision strategy for this project is based on its FMrisk rating, which will
be evaluated on regular basis by the FMS and inconsulation with relevant task team
leader.




                                                                                        61

                          Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                   China: Micro and Small EnterpriseFinance Project


A. General

The procurement for the project would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Loan Agreement. The procurement
arrangements are described below.

Credit Facility Component: Procurement under Credit Facility Component would be
carried out in accordance with Paragraph 3.12 (Procurement inLoan to Financial
Intermediaries) o f the Procurement Guidelines. Credit facility would be provided to PFIs
through CDB for on-lending to MSEs (micro and small enterprises including self-
employed individuals) as sub-loans on commercial lendingterms. The sub-loans will
range from RMB 100 to RMB 500,000, for working capital or/and investment.
Procurement under Sub-loans including selection o f consultants would be undertaken by
the respective beneficiary MSEsinaccordance with established private sector or
commercial practices. The procedures o f private sector or commercial practices have
beendescribed inthe Operational Manual.

Technical Assistance Facility Component: A large consulting services contract for Micro
and Small BusinessFinance and Institutional BuildingAdvisors to Commercial
BankdInstruments and CDB was signed on February 8, 2006. International Projekt
Consul GmbH, a Germany firm, was selected and contracted with total contract amount
o f about US$7.8 million with two-year contract duration through the Quality Based
Selection (QBS). The expenditures o f this Contract are expected to be covered under the
Bank retroactive financing. It i s not anticipated that any other major contracts for
consulting services would be required.However, ifany consultant services are required
duringproject implementation, inadditionto QCBS or QBS, the Selection Based on
Consultants Qualifications (CQ) would be used for the consulting contracts which are
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract. Chinese university,
design and research institutesas source o f consultants may be included inthe shortlist. In
such case, QBS or CQ will be used instead o f QCBS. Short lists o f consultants for
services estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described inparagraph 3.10 of
the Consultants guidelines, consultants may be selected and awarded on a sole-source
basis, subject to the Bank's prior approval. Individual consultants ifrequiredwould be
selected and awarded in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of
the Consultants Guidelines. Underthe circumstances describedinparagraph 5.4 ofthe
Consultants Guidelines, individual consultants may be selected and awarded on a sole-
source basis, subject to the Bank's prior approval.



                                                                                         62

Training and workshops: Training and workshops would be required under the project.
Detailedprograms would be developed by CDB during project implementationand
included inproject annual work plan for Bank's review. Actual expenditures incurred in
accordance with the approved detailed programs would be used as the basis for
reimbursement.

B. Assessment of theAgency's Capacity toImplement Procurement

The MSEBusiness Unitestablished inCDB would beresponsible for overall
management and supervisionof the project. The MSE Business Unit has three sections:
PFI selection and monitoring, MSE finance advisory services and project management.
The project Management Section will be responsible for day-to-day project management
and administration matters including financial management, procurement and reporting.
Fifteen staff members from within CDB have already beenrecruited into the MSE
BusinessUnitand addition staffwould be appointed ifrequiredduringproject
implementation.

An assessmentofthe capacity ofthe ImplementingAgency to implement procurement of
the project was carried out by the World Bank Beijing Office inAugust 2006. The
assessmentreviewedits organization structure and functions, past experience, staff skills,
quality and adequacy o f supporting and control systems. The overall risk for
procurement i s low.

C. Procurement Plan

At the appraisal stage or evenduringthe implementation ofproject, it is not possible to
determine either beneficiary MSEs or their procurement requirements.Therefore, it is not
feasible for CDB to develop a Procurement Plan for Credit Facility Component which
provides the basis for procurement methods. Instead, an overall implementation
arrangement including number o f PFIs, number o f new MSE departments in PFIs, and
number of loanto be disbursedand number oftarget MSEswould be prepared by CDB
for result monitoring. As for Technical Assistance Facility Component, CDB would
prepare a procurement plan for consultant services. Such Planwould be agreed between
the CDB and the project Team before negotiation and would be available at CDB and
Bank's external website.

D. Review Procedures and Frequency of Procurement Supervision

Prior Review: The large consulting contract for Micro and Small Business Finance and
InstitutionalBuildingAdvisors to Commercial Banks/Instruments and CDB was prior
reviewed by the Bank. Due to the nature o f the project and small size o f each piece o f
sub-loan, all contracts under Credit Facility Component are not subject to prior review,
but subject to the Bank's post reviewon a random basis. Under Technical Assistance
Facility Component, all consultant services contracts inexcess o f US$lOO,OOO for firms



                                                                                         63

and US$50,000 for individual consultants would be subject to the Bank's prior review,
and the rest o f contracts are subject to the Bank's post review.

Frequency of ProcurementSupervision:The Bank will conduct procurement
supervision at least once for the first year and every other year for the remaining project
implementation. Duringprocurement supervision, CDB and FPIs should provide all
consolidated information on number o f loans, names o f beneficiary MSEs, loan
applications, on-lending agreements and purpose o f use o f the loans, and implementation
o f the loans.




                                                                                         64

                       Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
                  China: Micro and Small EnterpriseFinanceProject

Economic Analysis

Significanteconomic benefitsare expectedto be derived from this project. Firstthis
projectwill facilitate credit expansionto a rapidly growingprivate MSE sector by
establishinga lendingplatformdesignedto demonstratethe profitability of suchlending.
Second, the projectwill improvecredit market efficiency and quality of credit decisions.
Under the project, PFIs, mainly CCBs, will have an opportunityto deploy tried and tested
credit technologiesthat, inother countries, have enabledlendersto effectively, efficiently
and yet prudentlyprocess credit needs o f MSEswith low transactions costs. The project
i s expected to improvethe credit culture and risk management systems inbanks while
expandingoutreach. Third, the projectwill enable the PFIsto diversify away from their
lendingto SOEs and other quasi-governmentalentities. The newmarketsegments
proposedto be servicedunder this projectwill enable PFIsto compete ina market
orientedand competitivefinancial system that is emerginginChina, with positive
impactson growth, development and employment creation. Finally,the new skills and
credit disciplineintroducedunder this projectwill have spill-overeffects by way of
enablingbanks to apply the same principlesand businesspracticesacrosstheir entire
subloanportfolio and business lines.

Thus, in summary the projectwill deliver benefits ina relativelyundistortedeconomic
environment.

FinancialAnalysis of ChinaDevelopmentBank(CDB)

     ...
The financial and operationalreview of CDB indicatesthat CDB has:

        Adequate profitability, capitaladequacy, asset quality and liquidity inaccordance
        with accountingand auditingprinciples acceptableto the Bank.
        Acceptable levels of subloancollections.
        Appropriate capacity includingstaffingfor sub-projectappraisaland
        implementation.
     1  Appropriate prudentialpolicies, administrativestructure and business procedures.

Overview. CDB is one ofthe three policy banksinChina.Its primaryrole is to support
economic developmentpolicies and programsof the government throughprovisionof
long-termfinancing for infrastructure, basic industriesand regionaldevelopment. CDB
has the status of a government ministryand enjoys investmentgrade ratings with the
internationalratingagencies that are inline with China's sovereignrating. The day to day
management o f operationsis overseen by a Governorassisted by four vice governors. In
addition, a Boardof Supervisors appointedby the State Counciland consistingo f
representativesfrom the Ministry of Financeand the CBRC, and a designatedpublic
accountingfirm, providesadvice and guidanceon strategyand operations.




                                                                                       65

Business Lines. Currently, CDB's main line o f business i s infrastructure financing. Some
95% o f outstanding loans are inthe infrastructure sector, with the energy, road and water
sectors accounting, respectively, for 26%, 22% and 22% o fthe total. In2003, inorder to
support the government's policy objectives o fpromoting a dynamic small and medium
enterprise (SME) sector; CDB launched an SME finance initiative. Under this initiative
CDB works with local commercial banks to provide loans to mostly small and medium
enterprises. Inaddition to providing funds, CDB assists local commercial banks in
improving their credit risk management and loan administration standards. At the end o f
2004, CDB had an SME loan portfolio of about RMB 4.5 billion. CDB recognizes that
micro and small enterprises have needs and risk characteristics distinct from SMEs and
must be serviced ina different manner.

Review of Financial and Operational Performance. Summary Balance Sheet, Income
Statement and key Performance Ratios for the past three years are presented inTables 1,
2 and 3 below. The key findings o f the review are as follows:

        CDB has a sound balance sheet with a reasonable level o f profitability and good
        asset quality ratios. (Since 2002 CDB has beenpublishingits financial statements
        based on IAS and has beenaudited by Price Waterhouse and Coopers).
        The financial and operational status o f CDB is periodically reviewedby
        international credit rating agencies and it enjoys an investment grade rating.
        Although as a policy bank CDB's operations are not exclusively motivated by
        profit considerations, CDB nonetheless has maintaineda reasonable level o f
        profitability.
        CDB's Capital Adequacy Ratio at 8.05% meets international norms.
        CDB has a low level o f NPLs and these are fully covered by loan loss reserves.
        This low level was achieved inpart by a one-time sale o fNPLs to Cinda Asset
        Management Company in2000. Most o f these NPLs had beeninherited from bad
        loans originated before 1998.
        New NPLs are kept low becauseCDB has implementeda strict and rigorous
        multi-tiercredit approval and risk control system that ensuresthat origination,
        appraisal, rating and monitoring are performed by independentdepartments. It
        has also investedintraining staff inmodern credit appraisal techniques and i s
        currently engaged inbringingits risk control systems inline with international
        practices.
        CDB has a concentrated loan portfolio both interms of sectors and borrowers.
        This i s inpart by design because it is mandated with a mission to finance
        infrastructure investmentsand support regional development.

                  Table 1: Summary Balance Sheet (in billions of RMB)

                                   2006            2005            2004            2003
 ASSETS
 Cash & Bank Balances            46.22           25.54           28.58             16.14
 Loans (Net)                    1,995.13        1,711.24        1,389.19        1,120.89
 Investments                     145.36          50.88           44.07            29.89
 FixedAssets                      2.67            2.67            2.69             2.41


                                                                                        66

       Long-Term
       Bonds Issues and
       Outstanding                  1,863.74       1,501.19     1,254.83        1,064.4 1

       Subordinate Debt              40.31          40.30         20.0 1
       Total Owner's Equity of
       which                         158.18        130.51         107.47         89.43
       Paid-in capital (memo)        50.00          50.00         50.00          50.00
       Reserves (memo)               34.99           7.27          6.33           5.16
       RetainedEarnings(memo)        73.06          73.24         51.14          34.27
       TOTAL LIABILITIES            2,3 14.27      1,897.94     1,574.48        1,279.17

                      Table 2: Summary IncomeStatement(in billions of RMB)




INet Profit                                      I 27.65     I 22.78      I17.41     I  13.21

                               Table 3: Key PerformanceRatios(in YO)




 Asset Quality
 ImpairedLoandGross Loans                    0.75        0.96      1.31       1.88        2.54
 Loan Loss Reserves /Impaired Loans          190.60     177.06    142.23     140.42      136.46




                                                                                         67

ParticipatingFinancialInstitutions

Although as a group, CCBs have weak balance sheets and some are eventechnically
insolvent, CDB has beenable to preparea long list of 20 or so CCBs that are potential
PFIs. The Bank, together with KfW and CDB, has conducteda financial and operational
review of two CCBs included on CDB's list: Taizhou Commercial Bank and Baotou
Commercial Bank. Inaddition, CDB, with the assistance of international consultants,
appraisedtwo more candidatebanks (Lanzhou Commercial Bank and Guiyang
Commercial Bank). Thereafter, CDB conductedevaluation of several more candidate
banks (Jiujiang Commercial Bank, Daqing Commercial Bank, M a Anshan Rural
Commercial Bank, Chongqing Commercial Bank and Jingzhou Commercial Bank) and
signed SLAs and TCAs with two of them (Lanzhou Commercial Bank and Guiyang
Commercial Bank), while negotiations are on-going with others.

The analysis of these candidatebanks included a review of their background and strategy,
an assessment of their capital strength, portfolio quality, management quality, governance,
quality of earnings and profitability. Inaddition, attention was paid to risk management
and controls, and existing MSE lending activities. To complete the analysis, meetings
were heldwith relevant bank management and staff. Financial data and other information
provided by the banks, as well as the auditor's report for 2005, were an integral part of
the review. Consultationswere heldwith the CBRC bothprior to andduring the
evaluations.

For example, the evaluations find that both TCB and BCB are amongthe fastest growing
CCBs and have made enormousprogress since their establishment about a decade ago.
Inparticular, NPLs from the past havebeendrastically reducedthrough rigorous
collection efforts and more stringent underwriting of loans, and capital replenishmentis
either completed or underway, which will raise the CAR to above regulatory requirement.
These PFIs are expected to further improve their corporategovernance, strategies and
planning, as well as risk management. It is anticipated that through the MSE finance
project, the TA, evaluation and monitoring provided by CDB will further helpthese
banks improve their performance inthe future.

Fiscal Impact and Sustainability

The project will have no or negligible fiscal impact. A fundamental objective of the
project is that the Credit Facility (95 percent of the proposed loan) will finance profit-
making lending by PFIs. The resourcesprovided for TA to CDB and PFIs will be repaid
from CDB's own funds. CDB is willing to absorb the TA costs, consistent with its role
as a development finance institution. Ifadditional grant funding i s mobilized, funds from
the Bank loan currently earmarkedfor TA can be redirectedto the Credit Facility.




                                                                                          68

                             Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                   China: Micro and SmallEnterpriseFinanceProject

The project was classified a financial intermediary loan (FIL). CDB has developed an
environmental assessment framework (EAF), and has submitted it for review by the Bank.
CDB commits to assuming overall responsibility to ensure the environmental soundness
o f the MSE finance project by puttinginplace guidelines, policies, procedures and
organizational capacity at its own and PFI levels. The Operational Manual will contain a
specific section to enable the stakeholders to implementthe EAF.

A safeguards review meetingwas heldon September 12, 2006, and it was agreed that for
a project o f this nature, a positive approach to environmental and social safeguards would
be desirable. It was the view o f the meetingparticipants that the environmental
protection measures formulated underthe project were adequate inensuring
environmental soundness o f the MSE lendingbusiness. Minutes o f the review meeting
drafted by the EAP Safeguards Secretariat was approved by Mr.Tunc Uyanik, the Sector
Manager.




                                                                                        69

                     Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                   China: Micro and Small EnterpriseFinanceProject

                                                 Planned                     Actual
PCN review                                     06/30/2005                   6/30/2005
Initial PID to PIC                             0710812005                   0710812005
Initial ISDS to PIC                            0710812005                   0710812005
Appraisal                                      10/09/2006                   11/21/2006
Negotiations                                   01/09/2007                   05/14/2007
Board/RVP approval                             06/19/2007
Planned date of effectiveness                  08/30/2007
Planneddate of mid-term review                 03115l2009
Planned closing date                           0313112011

Key InstitutionsResponsible for Preparation of the Project

The China Development Bank, with support from the Bank

No project preparation grants were usedinthis project. Support was provided from the
Technical Cooperation Credit IV

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the projectincluded:

          Name                                   Title                              Unit
Wang Jun                   Task Team Leader, Sr. Financial Sector Specialist      EASFP
Tunc Tahsin Uyanik         Sector Manager                                         EASFP
David Scott                Adviser                                                OPD
Johannes Zutt              Country Program Coordinator                            EACCQ
Carlos Escudero            Lead Counsel                                           LEGEA
Margaret Png               Sr. Counsel                                            LEGEA
Arvind Gupta               Lead PSD Specialist                                    EASFP
Shi Jinan                  Sr. Procurement Specialist                             EAPCO
LiHaixia                   Financial Management Specialist                        EAPFM
Yao Songling               Environmental/Social Specialist                        EASSD
Rochelle Hilton            Consultant
Liu Hui                    Consultant
Sun Limei                  Program Assistant                                      EACCF

Peer Reviewers:
Carlos Cuevas           Advisor, OPD
JianshengWang           Lead Investment Officer, IFC
Robert P. Christen      Consultant

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$309,043.02
    2. Total: US$309,043.02




                                                                                        70

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval:
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost:




                                             71

                   Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
              China:Micro and SmallEnterpriseFinanceProject

1. Memorandum o f Understandingbetweenthe International Bank for
    Reconstruction & Development and KfW to Co-Finance Commercially
    Sustainable Micro and Small Business Finance inthe People's Republic of China
    inCollaboration with the China DevelopmentBank (CDB)
2. Sample o f Technical CooperationAgreements betweenCDB and PFI
3. Template o f PFI evaluation report
4. Environmental assessment framework (EAF) by CDB
5. Aide Memoire by Bank mission
6. Micro and Small EnterpriseFinance Program Memorandumon the Meeting
    betweenKfW and the Bank
7. Micro And Small EnterpriseLendingProgram - Taizhou Commercial Bank -
    Joint Evaluation Report
8. Micro and Small EnterpriseLendingProgram - Baotou Commercial Bank -
    Joint EvaluationReport
9. Credit reviewreports of Baotou, Taizhou, and Changzhou City Commercial
    Banks
10. Due diligence reports o f Baotou, Taizhou, and Changzhou City Commercial
    Banks
11. Due Diligence - China Development Bank
12. Project Concept Note (PCN) reviewpackage
13. Minuteso f PCN review meeting
14. Draft Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet at Appraisal Stage
15. Project Information Document at Appraisal Stage
16. Aide Memoire on Outstanding Issues
17. Decision Meeting Package




                                                                               72

                                        Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                 China: Micro and SmallEnterpriseFinanceProject
                                                                                                                Difference between
                                                                                                                expected and actual
                                                          Original Amount in US$ Millions                          disbursements

Project ID  FY  Purpose                                IBRD        IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Fm. Rev'd
PO68752    2005 CN-Inner Mongolia Highway & Trade     100.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00  100.00    0.00         0.00
                Corrid
PO75730    2005 CN-HUNAN URBAN DEV                    172.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00  172.00    7.00         0.00
PO67828    2005 CN-Renewable Energy Scale-up           87.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00   87.00    0.00         0.00
                Program
PO69862    2005 CN - AgriculturalTechnology Transfer  100.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00  100.00    2.20         0.00
PO71094    2005 CN Poor Rural Communities
                   -                                  100.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00  100.00    0.00         0.00
                Development
PO81161    2005 CN-CHONGQING SMALL CITIES IIP         180.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00  180.00    0.00         0.00
PO81346    2005 CN-LIUZHOU ENVIRONMENT                100.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00  100.00    0.00         0.00
                MGMT
PO57933    2005 CN-TAI BASIN URBAN ENVMT               61.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00   55.77    3.32         0.00
PO86505    2005 CN-NINGBO WATER & ENVMT               130.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00  130.00    0.00         0.00
PO69852    2004 CN-Wuhan Urban Transport              200.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    1.00  188.00  154.20         0.00
PO66955    2004 CN-ZHEJIANG URBAN ENVMT               133.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00  121.82   -4.43         0.00
PO65463    2004 CN - JiangxiIntegratedAgric. Modern   100.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   93.96   13.36         0.00
PO65035    2004 CN-Gansu & Xinjiang Pastoral           66.27        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   55.26   10.62         0.00
                Development
PO84003    2004 CN-GEF GUANGDONG PRD URB                0.00        0.00      0.00       10.00   0.00   10.00    0.40         0.00
                ENV
PO81749    2004 CN-Hubei Shiman Highway               200.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    1.00  167.41   28.41         0.00
PO77615    2004 CN-GEF-Gansu & Xinjiang Pastoral        0.00        0.00      0.00       10.50   0.00    9.50    3.30         0.00
                Develop
PO77137    2004 CN-4th Inland Waterways                91.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.46   90.09    6.55         6.04
PO75728    2004 CN-GUANGDONGIPRD UR ENVMT             128.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.64  120.72    1.26         0.00
PO75602    2004 CN-2nd National Railways (Zhe-Gan     200.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    1.00  186.00   17.00       17.00
                Line)
PO75035    2004 CN - GEF-Hai  Basin Integr. Wat.        0.00        0.00      0.00      17.00    0.00   15.41    2.88         0.00
                Env.Man.
PO73002    2004 CN-Basic Education in Western Areas   100.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   86.30   36.87         0.00
PO40599    2003 CN-TIANJIN URB DEV II                 150.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00  139.51   13.28         0.00
PO70191    2003 CN-SHANGHAI URB ENVMT APLl            200.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00  177.29   28.29         0.00
PO70441    2003 CN-Hubei Xiaogan Xiangfan Hwy         250.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   89.49  -10.51         0.00
PO67337    2003 CN-2nd GEF Energy Conservation          0.00        0.00      0.00      26.00    0.00   14.40   25.10         0.00
PO68058    2003 CN-Yixing Pumped Storage Project      145.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00  129.16    1.86         0.00
PO58847    2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project           150.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   80.16   30.16         0.00
PO76714    2003 CN-2nd Anhui Hwy                      250.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00  207.79   35.79         0.00
PO71147    2002 CN-Tuberculosis Control Project       104.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   65.37   23.57         0.00
PO68049    2002 CN-Hubei Hydropower Dev in Poor       105.00        0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    60.47   27.47         0.00
                Areas
PO58846    2002 CN-Natl Railway Project               160.00        0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    24.55   19.55         0.00
PO70459    2002 CN-Inner Mongolia Hwy Project         100.00        0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    56.32   9.32          0.00
PO60029    2002 CN-Sustain. Forestry Devwatural         0.00        0.00      0.00      16.00   0.00    11.45   9.40          0.00
                Forest)
PO64729    2002 CN-SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEV.          93.90         0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    52.06   14.90         0.00
                PROJECT



                                                                                                                    73

PO58845  2001 CN-Jiangxi IIHwy                     200.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   54.77  30.05  27.82       0.00
PO56596  2001 CN-Shijiazhuang Urban Transport      100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   77.15   68.75      0.00
PO56516  2001 CN - WATER   CONSERVATION             74.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   21.97   13.47      0.00
PO56199  2001 CN-3rd Inland Waterways              100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   54.99   16.49      0.00
PO5I859  2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                  100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   40.70   28.10      0.00
PO45915  2001 CN-Urumqi Urban Transport            100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   34.47   34.47      0.00
PO47345  2001 CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION              105.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   67.54  -37.96      0.00
              CONTROL
PO459I O 2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT           150.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   83.94   50.94      0.00
PO45264  2000 CN-SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV               93.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.91    0.01      0.00
PO49436  2000 CN-CHONGQMG URBAN ENVMT              200.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.70  125.81  100.51      0.00
PO58844  2000 jrd ProvHwy
                 Henan                             150.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   34.36   29.36      0.00
PO58843  2000 CN-Guangxi Highway                   200.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  19.70  31.45   37.15       0.00
PO64730  2000 CN - Yangtze Dike Strengthening      210.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   93.30   93.30     -0.00
              Project
PO42109  2000 CN-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II            349.00    0.00  0.00   25.00  0.00  256.06  214.18       0.00
PO64924  2000 CN-GEF-BEIJING ENVMT II                0.00    0.00  0.00   25.00   0.00  22.67   23.01     13.44
PO56424  2000 CN-TONGBAI PUMPED STORA              320.00    0.00  0.00    0.00 100.00  66.97  120.37       0.00
PO4I268  I999 CN-Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan              350.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   32.81   32.81       0.00
PO36953  I999 CN-HEALTH IX (Shiyong Wang, Back-     10.00   50.00  0.00    0.00   0.40  25.77   24.88       6.43
              UP)
PO41890  I999 CN-Liaoning Urban Transport          150.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   5.57    5.57     -2.11
PO42299  I999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                    10.00   35.00  0.00    0.00   0.00  28.63  -18.23       0.00
PO43933  I999 CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVMT               150.00   2.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  65.20   97.22    38.72
PO4605I  1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                20.00   50.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   3.81    5.41       0.00
PO46564  I999 CN - Gansu & Inner Mongolia Poverty   60.00  100.00  0.00    0.00  13.30  11.21   20.80  -12.42
              Red.
PO46829  1999 CN-RENEWABLE ENERGY                  100.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   2.62   89.62      2.62
              DEVELOPMENT
PO49665  I999 CN-ANNMG VALLEY AG.DEV                90.00   30.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   7.36    8.49   - 1 1 . 5 1
PO50036  I999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                 200.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  9.60    5.53   15.13       0.00
PO5I705  1999 CN-Fujian IIHighway                  200.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  39.24   39.24       0.00
PO51856  1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM &                   27.40    5.60   0.00   0.00   0.00  14.38   14.29       0.00
              DEVELOPMENT
PO51888  1999 CN  - GUANZHONG    IRRIGATION         80.00   20.00  0.00    0.00   0.00  14.56   14.93       0.00
Po38I21  1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLE ENERGY                0.00    0.00   0.00  35.00   0.00  18.93   34.38     17.50
              DEVELOPMENT
PO58308  1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                  0.00    5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.52    0.50       0.00
PO57352  1999 CN-RURAL WATER IV                     16.00   30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  11.19   10.93     10.93
PO35698  1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                 300.00    0.00   0.00   0.00 161.90   4.62  166.52       3.51
PO03619  1998 CN-2nd InlandWaterways               123.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  37.00   7.80   44.80       7.80
PO03614  1998 CN-Guangzhou City Transport          200.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  20.00  86.45  106.45     86.45
PO03606  I998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                   63.00    0.00   0.00  22.00   0.00  19.65   15.85       0.00
PO03566  1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTHI)                0.00   85.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  23.09   20.29       0.00
PO03539  1998 CN  - SUSTAINABLE    COASTAL         IOO.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  2.06   38.52   40.58       3.38
              RESOURCES DEV.
PO46952  I998 CN  - FOREST. DEV. POOR AR           100.00  100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.42  -92.01       7.99
PO51736  1998 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                  250.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  86.00  21.06  107.06     17.97
PO45788  1998 CN-Tri-Provincial Hwy                230.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  15.14   15.14       0.00
PO40185  1998 CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT               95.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   1.40  10.18   11.58       0.5 1
PO36414  I998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVMT                72.00   20.00  0.00    0.00  13.48  50.29   63.17      4.75




                                                                                                    74

PO03637    1997  CN-NAT'L RURAL WATER 3                 0.00     70.00    0.00     0.00      0.00       0.41      3.62         3.20
PO03650    1997  TUOKETUO POWEWINNER                 400.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     102.50     22.56    125.06        22.56
PO44485    1997  SHANGHAI WAlGAOQlAO                 400.00       0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      50.10     50.10        49.65
PO36405    1997  CN WANJlAZHAl WATER TRA
                    -                                400.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     75.00      10.57     85.57        10.57
PO34618    I996  CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                  10.00     20.00    0.00     0.00      0.00       3.40      5.49         0.00
PO03594    1996  CN GANSU HEX1CORRIDOR
                    -                                  60.00     90.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      68.25     67.43         2.05
PO03639    1995  CN-SOUTHWEST POVERTY                  47.50    200.00    0.00     0.00      0.01       0.15     24.21        24.21
                 REDUCTION PROJECT
PO03596    1995  CN-YangtzeBasin Water Resources      100.00    110.00    0.00     0.00      1.92       0.08      4.47        4.47
                 Project
PO03540    1994  CN-LOESS PLATEAU                       0.00    150.00    0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00     -0.68         0.00
PO03632    1993  CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                0.00     50.00    0.00     0.00      0.00       0.38      0.95         0.63

                                              Total: 10,822.07 1,222.60   0.00    186.50   706.84    5,046.05  2,592.71      336.34




                                                              CHINA
                                    STATEMENT OF IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                    In Millions of US Dollars


                                                            Committed                               Disbursed
      FY Approval   Company                   Loan       Equity    Quasi   Partic.  Loan        Equity      Quasi      Partic.
      2002          ASIMCO                    0.00        10.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      10.00       0.00        0.00
      2003          Anjia                     0.00         2.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       2.00       0.00        0.00
      2004          Antai                     40.00        0.00     0.00    30.00     30.86       0.00       0.00      23.14
      2003          BClB                      0.00         0.00     11.60    0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
      2005          Babei                      I1.00       5.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       5.00       0.00        0.00
      I999/00/02    Bank of Shanghai          0.00        24.67     0.00     0.00      0.00      24.67       0.00        0.00
      2002         CDH ChinaFund              0.00         7.15     0.00     0.00      0.00       2.03       0.00        0.00
      2003         CSMC                       0.00         8.92     0.00     0.00      0.00       8.92       0.00        0.00
      2004         CUNA Mutual                0.00        12.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       1.47       0.00       0.00
      1998         Chengdu Huarong            5.16         3.20     0.00     5.47      5.16       3.20       0.00        5.47
      I992         China Bicycles             4.50         0.00     0.00     0.00      4.50       0.00       0.00       0.00
      2004         China GreenEner            20.00        0.00     0.00     0.00      11.50      0.00       0.00       0.00
      2004         China I1                   28.00        0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
      2004         China Re Life              0.00         1.54     0.00     0.00      0.00       1.54       0.00       0.00
      I994         China Walden Mgt           0.00         0.01     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.01       0.00       0.00
      2004         Colony China               0.00        16.07     0.00     0.00      0.00       3.47       0.00       0.00
      2002         Darong                      10.00       1.50     0.00     8.00      6.67       1 .50      0.00       5.33
      I994         Dynamic Fund               0.00         5.64     0.00     0.00      0.00       3.99       0.00       0.00
      2005         FangXin SHMT               6.00         0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
      2005         FangXin Limited            0.00         5.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       5.00       0.00       0.00
      2005         FangXin SHDX               3.00         0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
      2005         FangXin SHPM               3.00         0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
     2005          FangXin SZFX               3.00         0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
     2004          Fenglin                    19.00        0.00     6.00    18.00     12.45       0.00       6.00      1 1.62
     2003          Great lnfotech             0.00         3.22     0.00     0.00      0.00       2.52       0.00       0.00
     2005          HiSoft Tech                0.00         4.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       3.00       0.00       0.00
     2002          HuarongAMC                 9.00         2.51     0.00     0.00      9.00       0.49       0.00       0.00
     2004          IB                         0.00        52.18     0.00     0.00      0.00      52.18       0.00       0.00



                                                                                                                     75

2002      1EC                          0.00      0.00  20.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2004      Jiangxi Chenming             60.00    12.90   0.00   0.00    30.00   12.90   0.00   0.00
1998      Leshan Scana                 2.92      0.00   0.00   0.00     2.92    0.00   0.00   0.00
2001105   MaanshanCarbon               11.00     1.oo   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2001105   Minsheng Bank                0.00      2.80   0.00   0.00     0.00    2.79   0.00   0.00
2001      NCCB                         0.00     26.58   0.00   0.00     0.00   26.46   0.00   0.00
1996104   Nanjing Kumho                34.00     2.23   0.00   0.00    34.00    2.23   0.00   0.00
200I      New China Life               0.00     13.21   0.00   0.00     0.00    5.83   0.00   0.00
2005      New Hope                     0.00      0.00  45.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1995      Newbridge Inv.               0.00      0.39   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.39   0.00   0.00
2005      North Andre                  15.00     0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1997      Orient Finance               0.00      0.00   4.76   5.95     0.00    0.00   4.76   5.95
2003       PSAM                        0.00      1.93   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003      SAlC                         12.00     0.00   0.00   0.00     5.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2000      SEAF SSlF                    0.00      3.95   0.00   0.00     0.00    1.29   0.00   0.00
2004      SIBFl                        0.00      0.08   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.08   0.00   0.00
I998      Shanghai Krupp               24.50     0.00   0.00  52.49    24.50    0.00   0.00  52.49
I999      Shanxi                       12.61     0.00   0.00   0.00    12.61    0.00   0.00   0.00
2002      Sino Gold                    0.00      4.00   0.00   0.00     0.00    4.00   0.00   0.00
I995      Suzhou PVC                   0.00      2.48   0.00   0.00     0.00    2.48   0.00   0.00
          Wanjie High-Tech             12.19     0.00   0.00   0.00    12.19    0.00   0.00   0.00
2004      Wumart                       0.00      3.90   0.00   0.00     0.00    3.90   0.00   0.00
2004      X Colony China               0.00      0.84   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.17   0.00   0.00
2003      XACB                         0.00     19.94   0.00   0.00     0.00    3.25   0.00   0.00
2004      Xinao Gas                    25.00    10.00   0.00   0.00    25.00   10.00   0.00   0.00
1993      Yantai Cement                1.53      0.00   0.00   0.00     1.53    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003      Zhengye-ADC                  15.00     0.00   0.00   7.00    11.59    0.00   0.00   5.41
2002      Zhong Chen                   0.00      5.00   0.00   0.00     0.00    5.00   0.00   0.00

                      Total oortfolio: 387.41  275.84  87.36  126.91  239.48  211.76  10.76  109.41




                                                                                           76

                                             Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval Company                      Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic
2005        BCCB                       0.00         0.06       0.00      0.00
2005        Babei Silk Tie             0.00         0.00       0.00      0.01
2005        BioChina                   0.00         0.01       0.00      0.00
2004        CCB-MS NPL                 0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00
2005        ChangyuGroup               0.00         0.02       0.00      0.00
2004        ChenmingLWC                0.00         0.00       0.00      0.16
2004        China Green                0.00         0.00       0.01      0.00
2005        Fang Xin SHDX              0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00
2005        Fang Xin SHMT              0.01         0.00       0.00      0.00
2005        FangXin SZFX               0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00
2005        Five Star                  0.00         0.00       0.01      0.00
2002        HuarongAMC                 0.02         0.00       0.00      0.00
2002        IEC                        0.00         0.00       0.01      0.00
2005        MS Shipping                0.02         0.01       0.00      0.00
2004        NCFL                       0.00         0.00       0.02      0.00
2003        Peak Pacific 2             0.00         0.01       0.00      0.00
2004        SlBFl                      0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00
2002        SML                        0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00
2002        Sino Mining                0.01         0.00       0.00      0.01
2005        Vetroarredo                0.01         0.00       0.00      0.00
2002        Zhong Chen                 0.00         0.00       0.00      0.03
            Total pendingcommitment:      0.07      0.11       0.05      0.21




                                                                                 77

                                             Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
                             China:Micro and SmallEnterpriseFinanceProject

                                                                 East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asia 8 middie-
                                                       China   Pacific  Income        Development diamond'
                                                                                     ~



2003
Population. mid-year (miiiio ns)                       1,286.4   1,855     2,655                      Life eqectancy
GNI per capita (Atias method, US%)                       1 0 0   1,080     1.480
GNI (Atias method, US$ billions)                        1,4116    2,011    3,934                             T

Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population (%)                                            0.6       10       0.9
Laborforce (%)                                            0.9        11       12      GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                      per                                  primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1997.03)                              capita                            enrollment
Poverty (%of population beiownationaipovertyline)           5
Urban population (%of totaipopuiation)                     39       40        50
Life eqectancyat birth (years)                             71       69        69
Infant mortality(per 1000iive births)                      30       32        32
Child malnutrition (%of chiidrenunder5)                    0         15        n     1       Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (%of population)        75       76        61
Illiteracy(%ofpopuiationage 159                             9        0        0
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)        114       111      la         -China
   Male                                                    114      10        113                Lo wr-middle-income group
   Female                                                  1Y        111      in

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                1983    1993    2002      2003
                                                                                       E c o n o m i c ratios.
GDP (US$ biiiions)                              227.4   4318     1266.1   14a.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    33.6    43.3     40.4      44A
Eqorts of goods and serviceslGDP                  8.3     li.1    28.9      34.3                           Trade

Gross domestic savings1GDP                       34.5     416     43.4      47.0
Gross national savings/GDP                        35.1    416     43.2      41.6                              T
Current account balance/GDP                        1.7    -2.1      2.8      3.2       Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                             0.2     0.6      0.3       0.3      savings                          Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    4.2     8.9      13.3      Q.7
Total debt service/eworts                         0.1     9.4      7.9       7.2                              i
Present value of debt1GDP                                          a.6
Present value of debtleqorts                                       416                                  Indebtedness
                                     1983-93 1993-03   2002     2003 2003-07
(average annuaigrohih)                                                                    -
GDP                                       9.5     6.6     8.3       9.1      7.7                   China

GDP per capita                            7.9     7.6     7.6      8.4       7.o           __Lo       her-middle-incomegroup


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1983    1993    2002      2003        Growth o f Investment and GDP (Oh)
(% o f GDP)
                                                                                    i j
Agriculture                                      33.0     8.9      15.4      Y.6      30T

Industry                                         44.6    47.4      511      52.3
  Manufacturing                                  36.5    34.5     35.4      39.3
Services                                         22.4    32.7     33.5       33.1

Private consumption                               51.3   45.2     43.4      40.4                        99    00    0,   02
General government consumption                    14.1    13.0     13.2      P.e
Imports of goods and services                     7.5     18.6    25.9       31.8                   -GDI           -GDP


                                             1983-93 199 -03    2002      2003     I  Growth o f exports and Imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                            )
Agriculture                                       4.2     3.4      2.9       2.5   40
industry                                          11.9    0.4      9.8       P.6   30
  Manufacturing                                   11.5    0.3      0.0       TI.O  20
Services                                          0.7     6.2      7.5       6.6      10
Private consumption                               11.0     7.1     6.3       6.6      0
General government consumption                    9.7     6.5      7.o       5.5               98       99    00    01   02   03
Gross domestic investment                         9.2     9.3      13.7      B.8
Imports of goods and services                     9.9     a.4     27.5      24.8




                                                                                                                                  78

                                                                                                                                  China

PRICES and G O V E R N M E N T F I N A N C E
                                              1983    1993     2002     2003
D o m e s t i c prices                                                                 Inflation (Oh)                                  I
(%change)                                                                              4 r
Consumer prices                                  4.5    14.7      -0.8       1.2       2
Implicit GDP deflator                             11    14.6      -0.6       2.2
                                                                                       0
Government finance
(%of GDP,includes curmnt grants)                                                      -2
Current revenue                                23.0     13.7      18.3      8.7
Current budget balance                                   2.2       10        1.3
Overall surplusldeficit                         -0.7    -0.7      -3.3      -2.5               -GDPddiator             -CPI


T R A D E
                                              1983    1993     2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                          Export and i m p o r t levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                          22,226   91,744 325,565   436.228
 Food                                         2,653   8,399    14,623   7,533         500,0007

 Fuel                                         4,666    4,109    8,372      11,110     400 000

 Manufactures                                9,606   75.078  297,085   403,560        300 DO0
Total imports (cif)                          21,390  103,959 295,203   49,760
 Food                                         3,92    2.206     5,237    5,959        200 000

 Fuel and energy                                 111   5.69    8.285    29,214        100 000
                                                                                                                                       I
 Capital goods                                3,968  45,023   137,030  82,669                0

Export price index(995=00)                       41       61       78        82                 97   98    99     00    01     02    03

Import price index(995=00)                       69      88        86        95                      mExports           oimports
Terms of trade (S95=rOO)                         60      93        90        66


B A L A N C E o f P A Y M E N T S
                                             1983     1993     2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                         Current account balance t o G D P (Oh)

Exports of goods and services                24,604  102,643 365,395   465,003
Imports of goods and services                22,545  111,776  326,OQ   446,924        5 T
Resource balance                              2,259   -9.133   37,383   36,079

Net income                                    1.158   -1,284  -14,945   -7.638
Net current transfers                            511   1.72    9,964    17,634

Current account balance                       3,928  -9,245    35,422   45.875

Financing items (net)                        -1,233    1109    40,085    71,146
Changes in net reserves                      -2,695   -1,767  -75,507  -1li,023      1      97   98   99     00       01     02        I
M erno:                                                                                                                             O3

Reserves including gold (US$ millions)               27,336  297,735   416,206
Conversion rate (DEC,locaWUS$)                  2.6      8.0      8.3       6.3

E X T E R N A L D E B T and RESOURCE FLCIWS
                                             1983     I993     2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                        composition      o f 2003 debt (US$ m1ll.j
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          9,609  85,926   168.337  83.567
  IBRD                                            4   4,549    11,254   x),657                             A: W.657
  IDA                                            67    5,160    9,423    10,314                                        B: t3.314

Total debt service                            2,691   10.166  30,596    37,064
  IBRD                                            3     544     2,981    2,690
  IDA                                              1     38       180       219

Composition of net resourceflows
 Official grants                                 73     272       311
 Officialcreditors                             623    4,615    -1,206   -3,092
 Private creditors                             363    8,217    -4,550   -1,769
 Foreign direct investment                      9 s  27,515   53,074    55,507
 Portfolio equity                                 0   3.816

World Bank program
 Commitments                                   438    2,315     1.058     1.250       A. iBRD                            E - Bilateral
 Disbursements                                   71    1,845   2,020      1,616       B IDA
                                                                                        .         D. Other multilateral  F. Private
 Principalrepayments                              0    248     2,502     2,459        C - I M F                          G- Short-term




                                                                                                                                       79


MAP SECTION


                                                                             80E                    90E                                           100E                      110E                             120E To Chita                   130E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Heilong

                                                                                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                                        Jiang

                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Chita
                                                                        KAZAKHSTAN

                                                  CHINA                                                                                                                                                                                      H E I L O N G J I A N G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Qiqihar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Harbin
                                                                                                                                                 MONGOLIA
                                                                 To
              40N                                             Bishkek
                                                                                                                                                                             To                                                 Changchun
                                                         To                          Urumqi                                                                              Ulaanbaatar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               J I L I N
                                        To            Bishkek
                   TAJIKISTAN      Dushanbe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Shenyang
                                                    Kashi                                                                                                                                                                       LIAONING                DEM.             40N
                                                                                                                                                                                      L                                                  Anshan       PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                             N G   O                                                                                Sea of
                                                                    X I N J I A N G                                                                                   M   O             Hohhot                                                         REP. OF
             AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                      N E I                Baotou               BEIJING                                                      Japan
                                                                                                                                                                             Hua                                                                       KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                               ann g He                          BEIJING      Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dalian
                                       To
                                       To                                                                                                                                                                           Tianjin   Hai
                                    Mardan                                                                                                                                                              H E B E I   TIANJIN

                                                                                                                                                                         Yinchuan                          Shijiazhuang
                                                                                                                                                                                       Taiyuan                                                             REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KOREA
                      This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                    Jinan
                      the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                      Xining                                                                      Qingdao
             PAKISTAN World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                           Lanzhou                                               SHANDONG                   Yellow
                      colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sea
                      any other information shown                                                        Q I N G H A I                                             NINGXIA                 SHANXI



                      on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                      Zhengzhou                                                    JAPAN
              30N                                                                                                                                                                        Luoyang
                      the part of The World Bank                         X I Z A N G                                                                      G A N S U         Xi'an                                          JIANGSU
                      Group, any judgment on the                                                             Tongtian                          Huang
                      legal status of any territory,                                                                                                He                    S H A A N X I         H E N A N
                      or any endorsement or
                      a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                      boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                Hefei         Nanjing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Shanghai                   30N
                                                                                                    Nu                                                                                                                                       SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                     Jinsha                                                                       ANHUI
                    0               300 Kilometers                                                                                                                                         Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                              H U B E I                              Hangzhou                  East
                                                                                            Lhasa
                                           INDIA                                                                      Lancang                   S I C H U A N                        Chang
                                                                                                                                                               Chengdu                                       Wuhan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            China
                                                              NEPAL                                                                                                                                                             ZHEJIANG
                    0    100         200     300 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea
                                              80E                                                                                                                       Chongqing
                                                                                                                                                                           CHONGQING                                Nanchang
                                                                        To
                                                                        Nepalganj                                                                                                                        Changsha
                                                                                    To
                                                                                    ToBHUTAN                                                                                             HUNAN
                                                                                    Munger                                                                                                                   JIANGXI
                                                             CHINA                                                                                                 GUIZHOU                                              F U J I A N
                                                                                                                                                                           Guiyang                                                  Fuzhou


                                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                             Kunming
                                                                                 BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                              TAIWAN
                                                            PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                          Y U N N A N                         G U A N G X I              G U A N G D O N G
                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                         Xun     Guangzhou
                                                                                                          To
                                                            RIVERS                                   Mandalay                                                                      Nanning                       HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                            MACAO                                                       20N
                                                            MAIN ROADS N
                                                                        20                       MYANMAR                     ANMAR                         VIETNAM
NOVEMBER
                                                            RAILROADS                                                             MY                 LAO                                                                                                                      IBRD
                                                                                                                                                  PEOPLE'S                                    Haikou

                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                      THAILAND                      DEM.             To             HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PHILIPPINES                          33387
        2004                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                 REP.            Da Nang

                                                                                 90E                                               100E                                                110E                                               120E

