Document of
The World Bank  FILE COPY
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
Rqpot No. P-2372-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR THE
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 22, 1979
ITh dgct ba a _roud iliistim s_d my be sod by nedplet osy in th puformee of
their 1d1si isl  he cuskat my mt drwe be dbcomed wi*h* Wrld Bk aldwrdatlo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                       January 1979
Unit       =        Malagasy Francs (FMG) -  Malagasy franc (FMG)
US$1.00    =        FMG 225.64              -  FMG 212.06
FMG 1      =        US$0.004               -  US$0.005
FMG 1,O00  =        US$4.43                -  US$4.72
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1 = FMG 225)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BTM               Bankin'Ny Tantsahe Mpamokatra (Banque nationale pour le
developpement rural) - National Bank for Rural Development
CFDT              Compagnie Francaise pour le developpement des fibres
textiles - French Textile Company
FAC               Fonds d'aide et de cooperation of the French Government
FAFIFAMA          Livestock Development Unit in Ministry of Rural Development
FED               Fonds europeen de developpement - European Development Fund
IFAD              International Fund for Agricultural Development
SAMANGOKY         Society pour l'amenagement et la mise en valeur de la Vallee
du Bas Mangoky - Development and Production Agency for the
Lower Mangoky Valley
SODEMO            Societe pour le developpement economique de la region de
Morondava - Agency for the Economic Development of the
Morondava Region
FISCAL YEAR
Government - January 1 - December 31
SAMANGOKY - October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:   Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform, SAMANGOKY
Amount:           US$12.0 million
Terms:            Standard
Project       (i) Objectives:  The Project would support the development of
Description:    3,700 ha of new land for the production of rice and cotton.
It would complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000
ha in the lower Mangoky Valley.
(ii) Components: The Project represents the final tranche of the
first phase of a long-term master plan for the development
of the Mangoky delta. It would include: (a) development of
irrigation and drainage networks for 3,700 ha and road infra-
structure; <b) development of about 3,300 ha of new land
and production of concrete canal segments for tertiary and
quaternary irrigation networks; (c) detailed design studies
and supervision of civil works; (d) incremental agricultural
production costs; (e) applied agricultural research for the
Mangoky scheme; (f) social infrastructure; (g) investigational
research and trials on operating problems, overseas study trips
and training courses, monitoring and evaluation, and studies
to prepare future projects for the Mangoky region; and (h)
project preparation activities for agriculture and new
development projects.
(iii) Benefits: Increased production of rice and cotton by about
13,000 and 2,000 tons, respectively, with a total value of
about US$3.9 million annually. About 3,200 families or
19,000 persons would benefit directly from the Project. The
average farm income would be nearly US$800 as compared with
a farm income of about US$220 on traditional farms in the
area. The project would create new employment for about
8,500 people.
(iv) Risks: The success of Project implementation will depend
on (i) the quality of SAMANGOKY management in executing
land development works and in organizing agricultural produc-
tion, (ii) the degree of support and control of SAMANGOKY's
activities by the Ministry of Rural Development (iii) farmer
cooperation and (iv) the introduction of good irrigation and
soil management practices on actual or potentially saline or
alkaline soils.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
----US$ Million----
Local Foreign Total
(a) Major Civil Works                      1.5    3.6    5.1
(b) Land Development                       3.9    5.6    9.5
(c) Design studies & supervision          0.2    0.3    0.5
(d) Incremental agricultural
production costs                      1.2    1.5    2.7
(e) Social infrastructure                 0.1    0.0    0.1
(f) Training, applied investigation,
research & project preparation        1.4    2.0    3.4
Total                                8.3   13.0   21.3
Contingency Allowances
Physical                              1.2    1.9    3.0
Price                                 2.0    3.1    5.1
Total Contingencies                        3.2    5.0    8.1
Total Project Costs                       11.4   18.0   29.4
Taxes and Duties                           3.0
Total Project Costs
(net of taxes and duties)               8.4   18.0   26.4
Financing Plan:
US$         Percent
(million)       of Total
Government of Madagascar                         4.8             18
SAMANGOKY/Farmers                                2.2              8
Cotton Organization/Farmers                      0.9              3
IFAD                                             6.5             25
IDA                                             12.0             46
Total (net of taxes and duties)            26.4            100
Estimated                                  IDA Fiscal Year
Disbursement:              1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                     0.2    1.3       3.5     4.5      2.0      0.5
Cumulative                0.2    1.5        5.0      9.5    11.5    12.0
Rate of Return:             About 18 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2178-MAG, dated February 14, 1979
Maps:                       IBRD 13654 and IBRD 13655



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR THE MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equivalent
of US$12.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural
development project in the Mangoky delta. The International Fund for Agri-
cultural Development (IFAD) will participate in the financing of the project
on a parallel basis with a loan of SDR 5.0 million equivalent (approximately
US$6.5 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Bank economic mission visited Madagascar in July 1978.  A summary
of its findings is set out below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1.
3.        With a GNP per capita estimated at US$210 in 1977, Madagascar is one
of the poorest countries in the world. It is predominantly an agricultural
country and 85 percent of its 9.4 million 1/ people live in rural areas with
a per capita income of about US$120 per annum. In many areas the standard
of living is close to subsistence level. Although the country is sparsely
populated (an average of 16 inhabitants per square kilometer), there is great
pressure on cultivable land in some regions. Owing mainly to different eco-
logical conditions, the highlands are more advanced than the coastal areas,
and the south is particularly poor with a harsh, arid climate and infertile
soils. The east coast is rich agriculturally, but crops are frequently
devasted by cyclones. Internal migration is common and has accelerated as
improved roads have provided access to new areas. However, poor roads remain
a major constraint to development; only one third of the main highways are
passable in all weather in a country where production centers may be as far
as 800 kilometers from main points of consumption. Many areas are cut off
from the rest of the country for several months each year.
4.        Over the past few years the growth of the economy continued to be
slow and uneven. Having risen but marginally in the preceding year real GDP
fell in 1976 by 2.9 percent owing to a slight decline in agricultural produc-
tion and a steep drop of about 14 percent in manufacturing output. GDP is
estimated to have increased by 3.9 percent in 1977; even so output of goods
and services showed only a slight increase over the period since 1974; and,
1/   According to the latest available census data mid-year population in
1977 is estimated to be only 8.0 million, which would raise the GNP
per capita to US$240.



-2-
with population increasing by about 2.5 percent annually, per capita GDP
fell by about 5 percent. Budgetary investment outlays were stepped up con-
siderably after 1975; but the investment rate remained practically unchanged
at about 14 percent as the sharp rise in Government capital expenditure was
largely offset by a substantial decline in private investment. The savings
rate too continued to be fairly stable and fluctuated around 10-11 percent.
The resource gap as a consequence has been maintained at a low level.
5.        Agricultural production has not recorded any marked growth over
the last three or four years. Even over the longer period since 1970 it has
increased at an annual rate of only about 1 percent. Despite periodic good
crops, paddy production did not keep pace with demand; and production in 1977
estimated at 2.0 million tons was only about 7 percent higher than in 1970.
Groundnut production, after rising significantly in 1976, fell again to
47,000 tons in 1977, while meat production did not register any significant
rise. Imports of rice and edible oils have been increasing; at 105,000 tons
and 16,000 tons, respectively, they were about three to four times as large
in 1977 as in 1970-71. Sugarcane production continued to stagnate as there
has been no addition to the refinery capacity for several years. Among other
cash and export crops, coffee production, except for a 6 percent drop in 1976,
has been rising steadily, reaching some 89,000 tons in 1977.  However, raw
cotton production, which had been increasing fairly fast, levelled off after
1975 due to shortages of fertilizers and pesticides, vanilla output declined,
while pepper showed no noticeable increase.
6.        Fostered by fiscal incentives, protection against competition from
imports and provision of institutional term financing, manufacturing normally
accounts for about 14 percent of GDP. Industrial output, which still consists
mainly of textiles and processed foods, declined in 1975 and 1976; and despite
some recovery in 1977, remained below the level attained in 1974. However,
while output of processed foods and textiles have followed a stagnant or a
downward trend, some of the minor industries - chemicals, tobacco manufactures,
rubber, paper products - maintained fairly steady growth. The setback to
industrial growth in recent years was caused by a number of factors: capacity
bottlenecks and aging equipment, owing partly to declining private investment,
uncertain and inadequate availability of agricultural materials for processing
industries, shortages of imported inputs, and, in some cases, even deficient
demand. These factors reflect to some extent the effects of uncertainty
accompanying the shift through greater Government control from a predominantly
free market system to a mixed economy. In particular, private investment in
industry was discouraged and maintenance of industrial plans suffered.
7.        With sudden and sharp rise in current budget expenditure and Govern-
ment spending on capital development the fiscal situation deteriorated con-
siderably after 1975. Current expenditures rose steeply with the rising wage
bill of the Government and increasing outlay on maintenance; and the current
budget surplus, which used to be substantial, dwindled as revenues failed to
keep pace with the growth of expenditures. Furthermore, as Government intensi-
fied its efforts to raise investment levels and stimulate the economy, public



-3-
investment expenditure rose from 11.2 billion FMG in 1975 to 20.5 billion FMG
in 1977. The outlays on the consumer rice subsidy, although they declined
in 1976, rose again to 3.6 billion FMG in the subsequent year. The overall
Treasury deficit, which more than doubled to 20 billion FMG between 1975 and
1977, was financed increasingly through recourse to Central Bank advances.
The budget for 1978 envisaged a 26 percent increase in total outlay as com-
pared to the estimated actual expenditures in 1977, while capital spending was
proposed to be raised by nearly 80 percent to 36.4 billion FMG. Revenues too
were expected to go up sharply, partly as a result of tax reform measures.
The overall deficit, however, might turn out to be somewhat larger than the
projected 16.1 billion FMG owing to underestimation of expenditure on per-
sonnel and the settlement of payments deferred from 1977, on the one hand,
and shortfalls in revenues on the other. Even so the overall fiscal situation
is likely to have shown some improvement in 1978 as compared to the preceding
year. The Government is contemplating economies in current expenditure,
particularly by paring consumer subsidies, so as to minimize the burden of
unproductive outlays in the future.
8.        Monetary and credit developments since 1975 have been influenced
mainly by the Government's deficit financing aeeds. Outstanding domestic
credit went up by more than 50 percent to 126 billion FMG during 1975-77, due,
for the most part, to the steep and continued rise in net claims on Government.
As a result, money supply, which had been increasing moderately, rose by 15
percent in 1976 and as much as 25 percent in 1977. Despite this monetary
expansion and little growth in the output of goods and services the annual
inflation rate has been moderate, about 9-10 percent during 1976-77, partly
because of increasing demand for cash balances and the consequent accumulation
of idle funds. These balances could, if drawn down, add to the pressure on
prices in the future.
9.        The balance of payments situation which had been deteriorating
showed a substantial improvement in 1976, when a surplus of 2 billion FMG was
recorded; but the payments surplus in 1977 is now estimated to have been much
smaller. The turnaround in the balance of payments situation occurring in
1976 is attributable more to exogenous factors than to any significant im-
provement in the structure of the balance of payments. Trade surpluses were
recorded in 1976 and 1977 as a result of (a) a sharp rise in prices of exports,
particularly coffee, which reversed the continuing deterioration in the terms
of trade, and (b) the imposition of stricter quantitative restrictions on
imports in 1976. There was a substantial decline in the availability of
imports after 1975.  On the other hand, the volarue of exports dropped sharply
in 1976, and continued to fall in 1977, while there was no lasting reduction
in the services deficit, nor any sustained rise in capital inflows.
10.       The growth and development of the Mlalagasy economy have over a
fairly long period been affected by constraints resulting from shortage of
savings, slow growth of markets for major primary exports and low productivity
of traditional agriculture. The country, however, is relatively well-endowed
with natural resources and has a well-established administrative set-up. With
appropriate policies and adequate external capital assistance medium and long-
term prospects for the economy should be favorable. There is considerable
scope for the expansion of agriculture and livestock production. Only about
a fifth of the arable land is at present being cultivated, while fertilizer
consumption, estimated to be some 14,000 tons in 1976, is still rather small.



The irrigation potential has as yet been only partially exploited. The
outlook for further development of manufacturing based on locally available
materials is promising. On the whole, sustained growth at an average annual
rate of 4-5 percent appears to be feasible.
11.       The Government has been taking far-reaching steps to strengthen
national control of the economy. As a part of this process economic and
financial institutions, productive sectors, foreign trade and internal market-
ing have undergone extensive reorganization. Inspired by the basic needs
approach the Government has also formulated long-term development objectives
which envisage a more egalitarian income distribution and satisfaction of
specified minimum co1asumption requirements of the population by the end of
the century. The Government also stresses national self-sufficiency and the
eventual establishment of an industrial base large and diversified enough to
meet the entire domestic demand for equipment and other manufactures.
12.       A Three-Year Plan, which is to be the first of a series of medium-
term investment programs designed to attain these long-run development objec-
tives, was launched this year. The Plan envisages overall expansion of the
economy at an average annual rate of 5.5 percent during 1978-80. The rate of
investment is projected to rise to 17.1 percent of GDP by 1980 from the plan
estimate of 11.5 percent in 1977. The savings rate is to be stepped up,
partly through the mobilization of additional budgetary resources for capital
development. But about a quarter of the investment outlays during the Plan
period is expected to be financed through external loans and grants. Greater
emphasis will be placed on the development of food crops; and household con-
sumption is targeted to rise, in real terms, by 3.6 percent per year. The
Plan also accords high priority to manufacturing, particularly basic industry
and processing of agricultural raw materials.
13.       Madagascar's external public debt, outstanding and disbursed,
amounted to US$202.8 million at the end of 1977. Slightly over half of it
(US$102.3 million) was owed to the Bank Group, and as much as 37.8 percent to
IDA alone. Among bilateral donors France and the Federal Republic of Germany
are the most prominent, each holding about 14 percent of the disbursed debt.
Japan and the People's Republic of China rank next in importance (about 5
percent each) followed by the USA (3 percent) and Italy (1.1 percent).
Suppliers' credits and commercial borrowing (4.6 percent of the disbursed
debt) have been relatively unimportant. The Government, in fact, has been
generally prudent with regard to external indebtedness; the outstanding
disbursed debt at the end of 1976 thus amounted to nearly 11 percent of GNP
as compared to the average of 21 percent for low income countries. Because
of relatively limited reliance on external assistance and concessionary terms
of most loans and credits debt service payments have remained small. The
estimated debt service ratio of 3.5 percent in 1976 was only marginally higher
than in 1970.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
14.       Madagascar has received fourteen IDA credits amounting to US$158.2
million and five Bank loans totaling US$32.6 million. About 48 percent of
Bank Group lending has been for transport, 21 percent for electric power,
22 percent for agriculture and 9 percent for education. IFC's first invest-
ment was made in March 1977 with an equity investment of US$290,000 and a
loan of US$11.0 million for the expansion of a textile mill; other projects
in sugar, leather and ferrochrome are under consideration. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and of IFC investments as
of December 31, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       The priority given to transport investment recognizes that improve-
ment in communications is a precondition for Madagascar's development. Four
projects were for the construction of all-weather links between the island's
different regions, one for improvements to Madagascar's main port of Tamatave
and one for the modernization of the railway line between Tamatave and the
capital, Antananarivo. Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of
two livestock development projects, two irrigation projects and a forestry
project. A study on the problem of marketing and pricing of meat is being
executed with the assistance of an international consultant firm.
16.       In the past, problems have arisen in the course of execution of
several projects. There were delays in execution, cost overruns and defi-
ciencies in institution building, especially in agriculture. The Morondava
Irrigation Project which was reduced in scope in 1974 continues to encounter
acute problems, but the Government has prepared a plan of action to deal
with them; the plan includes a redefinition of the implementing agency's (SODEMO)
responsibilities and financial structure, completion and audit of overdue
accounts, and preparation of an investment program and budget for development
of the Morondava area. Implementation of the plan of action has started and
is being closely monitored by the Government and the Association. Imple-
mentation of the Village Livestock Project has improved substantially. The
highway projects are also proceeding satisfactorily.
17.       In our future lending to Madagascar, we expect agriculture to absorb
an increasingly larger share of total Bank lending, in line with Government
strategy, which is stated in its long-term development plan and which recog-
nizes that expansion of agricultural production is one of the prerequisites of
further development of the country. A pipeline of possible projects has been
identified. We are currently assisting the Government in preparing an agricul-
tural credit project, a rural development project, a small-scale irrigation
project and a second forestry project. At the same time, we will continue
supporting infrastructure development. A second railway project has been
negotiated and should be presented to the Executive Directors in the near
future. A fifth highway project, concerned mainly with the improvement of
highway maintenance, and a water and sanitation project for Antananarivo have
been appraised. In addition a DFC project which will include assistance to
artisans and small-scale industries has been appraised. Projects in education



and urban development are being prepared. We expect the Government to seek
cofinancing from other external lenders for some of the projects and we intend
to assist the Government in its efforts to mobilize new external sources of
financing.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
18.       About 85 percent of Madagascar's population of about 9.4 million
live in the rural areas, and agriculture dominates the economy. Agriculture
contributes about 40 percent of total GDP, accounts for more than 80 percent
of export earnings, and supports directly over 80 percent of the population.
Madagascar's agricultural sector is striking in its diversity. The rural
economy varies among several sharply different geographic regions, producing
a very wide range of crops and other agricultural produce. A variety of
production systems are employed, ranging from large-scale mechanized agri-
culture to the simplest, small-scale traditional farming. This diversity has
to some extent protected Madagascar against the vicissitudes of international
commodity prices and adverse climate (drought and cyclones being ever-present
hazards). It also contributes to wide disparities in wealth and level of
development among geographic regions. In many areas, the standard of living
is close to subsistence level, while in others, the population is relatively
prosperous. Owing mainly to different ecological conditions, the central
highlands and particularly the area around Tananarive are more developed and
prosperous than the coastal areas, while the south is particularly poor.
19.       The growth of Madagascar's agricultural production over the past
15 years has been disappointing, with the average rate of increase somewhat
less than the population growth rate of 3 percent a year; from 1970-75, the
annual rate of increase was about 2 percent. This performance largely
reflects the low growth rate of rice production and the stagnation or even
decline of the national cattle herd. During this period, production of some
crops increased significantly, notably cotton and coffee. The potential for
agricultural development in Madagascar is considerable. Many commodities now
being produced offer excellent scope for expansion, while intensification of
production in virtually all parts of Madagascar could significantly increase
output. On the west coast, in particular, there are large areas of undevel-
oped yet fertile land which can be brought into production. In many cases,
as a result of research and trials, the technical base for expansion or
intensification exists already. In other areas, notably rice production,
promising high-yielding new varieties could be introduced based on an effort
in applied research.
Government Strategy and Services
20.       The Government of Madagascar's broad objectives for rural develop-
ment are spelled out in its development plan approved in December 1977, which
includes a long-term strategy for the period 1978-2000, and a three-year plan



- 7 -
for 1978-80. In essence, Madagascar's objective for the year 2000 is to
develop a strong and self-sufficient basis for development. Agriculture is
to represent the basis of development, and will receive a major share of
investment and effort. The plan emphasizes the linkage of Madagascar's eco-
nomic, political, social and cultural development to the establishment of a
socialist regime. The Government is expected to assume control of cultivated
land, particularly large farms which have been lying idle for some time, or
newly-developed land; socialist cooperatives would become responsible for this
land. The plan foresees state control over basic industries, particularly
those related to agriculture.
21.       Local Government.  The reorganization of jocal administration and
government based on the "fokonolona" system which the Government has been
undertaking since 1972 is an important foundation for development. This
system involves the establishment of representative institutions at four
levels. Fokontany, which coincide roughly with traditional village units
(about 11,400); firaisam-pokontany, at the former canton level (about 1,250);
fivondronam-pokontany, at the former subprefecture level (about 110); and
faritany (6) which have replaced the former provinces, comprise the hierarchy
of the system. The "fokonolona" system reflects an effort to associate tra-
ditional institutions and practices with a more representative and responsive
local government, and to provide a vehicle for decentralization of power as
part of Madagascar's socialist revolution. The reform is being implemented
gradually, and many details of the new system, notably regarding local finance,
the role of cooperatives within the fokonolona system and the role of
fokonolona institutions in the control of industry and parastatals, are still
being considered by the Government. However, the new entities have assumed
important responsibilities, notably for marketing of rice and other agricul-
tural products, and for planning and implementation of small-scale development
projects, particularly in rural areas.
22.       Agricultural development and extension.  The Ministry of Rural
Development and Agrarian Reform is the central institution for rural devel-
opment programs. It is concerned with extension, plant protection, veterinary
services, irrigation systems, fisheries and forestries. It also deals with
planning, with overseeing semi-autonomous regional authorities and parastatal
agencies, and with land redistribution. In addition to the Ministry's basic
services and departments, several regional extension agencies provide services
to farmers in parts of Madagascar. These are formally part of the Ministry
but tend to function autonomously. About 26 parastatal agencies operate under
the aegis of the Ministry, among which is SAiANGOKY, the agency responsible
for the Mangoky development.
23.       Agricultural Credit.  The National Rural Development Bank (BTM),
created in 1977 when banking functions were reorganized and private banks
nationalized, is the principal source of credit for agriculture. Credit for
specific commodities is also extended through parastatal agencies (such as
SAMANGOKY) and in the form of inputs with costs recovered at harvest time.
BTM's lending has expanded rapidly in the past three years. It has extended



- 8 -
a high proportion of short- and medium-term credit for marketing and has
recently substantially increased its credit to farmers through the fokonolona
institutions (as moral guarantor).  BTM is likely to increase its ai /vities
rapidly in the future, as the Government views it as a key institution to
support its rural development policies and the primary source of ruial credit.
Marketing and Pricing
24.       Rice.  Rice is grown on about half of permanently cultivated land.
It is the staple food of the Malagasy diet. Family rice fields represent
about 70-80 percent of the total area under rice, the remaining 20-30 percent
representing organized irrigation schemes developed or supported by the Govern-
ment and producing the bulk of the surpluses which are available for marketing.
The Government has direct responsibilities for marketing and pricing of rice
and intervenes at several stages. Domestic marketing has been declared a
ITmonopoly of the state" and the Government is seeking control and organizes
all aspects of internal marketing through a number of regional agencies, among
which is SAMIANGOKY. Mlost of these agencies have experienced considerable diffi-
culties and, as a result, rice marketing has been at high cost and inefficient.
The Government also controls rice imports, determining amounts required,
organizing supplies and shipments, and overseeing distribution. The Govern-
ment fixes prices of paddy and rice at the producer and retail level. These
prices apply throughout the country and are normally reviewed annually.
Current price levels involve a significant subsidy to consumer both for
domestically produced and imported rice. Rice subsidies for domestic market-
ing operations are financed by a subsidy fund managed by the Central Bank;
subsidies for imported rice are financed directly by the Government. Ob-
viously the marketing and pricing arrangements raise complex issues at the
national level. Their implications for SAMANGOKY are, however, relatively
limited because SAMANGOKY's marketing responsibilities cover only a small
geographic area and are efficiently managed. However, if levels of producer
prices continue to be held at levels significantly below import parity, the
capacity of SAMANGOKY and associated farmers to support charges for capital
investments will be restricted.
25.       Cotton.  Cotton is one of the major industrial crops in Madagascar.
Production has increased steadily over recent years. The Compagnie Francaise
pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT), which has played a major
role in the development of cotton production in Madagascar since 1956, is
mainly responsible for cotton marketing. Established as a Malagasy corpora-
tion in 1973, with all shares held by private interests, CFDT has principal
responsibility for seed multiplication, distribution and marketing, including
purchase of all seed cotton and ginning and sale of fiber and seeds to local
manufacturers. Although its long-term contract with the Government expired in
1976, CFDT has continued its operations essentially unchanged, pending negotia-
tions with the Government on its future role in Madagascar. Prices of cotton
are currently set at levels which approximately reflect import parity. The
Government is negotiating the establishment of a successor organization which
would be wholly or partially owned by the Government but which will probably



- 9 -
retain virtually all of CFDT's present structure and operating procedures.
Assurances were obtained from Government that it would maintain arrangements
satisfactory to IDA and IFAD for the financing and marketing of cotton in the
Mangoky region (Section 4.10, draft Joint Project Agreement).
26.       The Government would consult from time to time with IDA and IFAD on
pricing and marketing policies affecting rice and cotton production, partic-
ularly as these would have a direct impact on farmers in the MANGOKY region
and on SAMANGOKY (Section 4.08, draft Joint Project Agreement).
Mangoky Delta Development
27.       The Mangoky delta, located in southwest Madagascar is a relatively
isolated natural region bounded by the Mozambique Channel to the west, and
inhospitable and sparsely populated areas to the north, south and east. Its
rich potential for agriculture has long been recognized. However, because
of the region's isolation and sparse population, and because of the unpre-
dictable and often violent regime of the Mangoky river, the Mangoky Valley
remained undeveloped until recent years. In 1952, an experimental station was
established at Tanandava to conduct research and trials on various crops and
to define broad development options for the delta region. Shortly thereafter,
a program of studies was initiated, including investigations of sociological
and health factors, which led in 1960 to the definition of a pilot development
scheme for about 1,000 ha on the left bank of the Mangoky river. This was
followed in 1961 by the completion of an ambitious long-term master plan for
development of more than 100,000 ha of land in the Mangoky valley, and a
project for development of a first phase of 10,000 ha. Since then the basic
irrigation system for the 10,000 ha area has been constructed and about 6,000
ha of land have been developed for cultivation. The Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) of the French Government and the European Development Fund
(FED) contributed to the financing of these investments. The proposed project
would complete the development of the first phase of the master plan.
28.       The development of the Mangoky irrigation schemes has resulted in
important social changes for the area, the most important being rapid migra-
tion of population from other parts of Madagascar. In mid-1978, the popula-
tion living in the vicinity of the SAMANGOKY development area was estimated
at 30,000 people; however, much of the population remains itinerant, coming
to the area for the cotton haryest and returning to their place of origin -
normally the south - at other times of the year. At some periods of the year
the population is probably larger than 50,000. The stationary population of
the area is, however, increasing.
Bank-Financed Agricultural Development Projects
29.       The Bank Group has previously financed two irrigation projects in
Madagascar. The Lake Alaotra Irrigation Project approved in July 1970 was
designed to improve an irrigation and drainage network and increase crop
production (mostly rice) on 12,000 ha of peat soils in the central plateau of
Madagascar. It was completed successfully in 1976 (Project Performance Audit



- 10 -
Report, dated June 14, 1977). The second projecc is the Morondava Irrigation
and Rural Development Project approved in June 1972. The project aims to
rehabilitate and extend an existing irrigation system of about 9,300 ha,
to develop associated services and to settle about 2,100 families in the
area. A new regional development institution, SODEMO, was established by the
Government to implement the project. By early 1974 it was apparent that there
would be serious cost overruns while forecast agricultural benefits decreased
substantially. The project was therefore revised and reduced in scope, and
the Credit Agreement was amended in February 1976. The Executive Directors
were informed of these changes (IDA/Sec. M75-305 of December 24, 1975). But
SODEMO has continued to face serious organizational, technical and financial
problems and has sustained considerable financial losses during the past four
years. Implementation of a plan of action to correct these problems started
in early January 1979 and is being closely monitored by the Government and by
the Association.
30.       The Bank Group also financed two projects in the livestock sector.
The first project, approved in January 1969, aimed at introducing modern
ranching. It faced considerable difficulties in its execution and many
features had to be revised. The project has been completed (Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report, dated April 11, 1977). The lessons learned were reflected
in the second livestock project approved in August 1974. The project will
assist traditional livestock in about 2,000 villages, improve pasture on about
10,000 ha, construct about 300 water points, develop livestock extension
services, improve and maintain rural roads, construct village schools and
provide mobile health units through FAFIFAMA, a parastatal agency. The
project is complex and also encountered problems following credit signature.
At present the situation is much improved. FAFIFAMA is now well established
and operational. Implementation of the project's most important component -
the development of veterinary and livestock services for village producers -
is proceeding well. Cooperation with fokonolona institutions in all aspects
of FAFIFAMA's work is excellent.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
31.       The Project proposal was prepared by the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment and Agrarian Reform, and by SAMANGOKY, with assistance from consulting
engineers (SOGREAH and SOMEAH). 1/ The project was appraised in April 1978.
Negotiations were held in Washington from November 27 to December 1, 1978.
The Government delegation was led by Mr. Leon Rajaobelina, Governor of the
Central Bank. The main features of the Project are outlined in the Credit and
Project Summary and the Supplemental Project Data Sheet of this report. A
detailed account of the Project background and components is contained in
Staff Appraisal Report No. 2178 dated February 14, 1979, which is being circu-
lated separately.
1/   SOGREAH - Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques
SOMEAH - Societe Malgache d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques



- 11 -
Project Description
32.       The proposed Project would support the development of about 3,700
ha for production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families.
It would complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower
Mlangoky Valley which has been under development since the early 1960s. These
investments are based on a long-term master plan for the region which aims
ultimately to bring about 100,000 ha of land into production. The Project
would be implemented over a five-year period and would comprise the following
components:
(a) Development of primary and secondary irrigation and drainage
networks for 3,700 hectares and road infrastructure;
(b) Land clearing and levelling, and development of tertiary and
quaternary irrigation systems for about 3,300 ha, including
production of concrete canals for the tertiary and quaternary
irrigation network;
(c) Detailed design studies and supervision of civil works;
(d) Incremental agricultural production costs;
(e) Applied agricultural research for the Mangoky Scheme;
(f) Social infrastructure;
(g) Investigational research and trials on operating problems,
overseas study trips and training courses, monitoring and
evaluation, and studies to prepare future projects for the
Mangoky region; and
(h) Project preparation activities for agriculture and new
development projects.
33.       The components can be described as follows:
(a) Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure and Roads
Under the Project, existing irrigation and drainage networks would be
extended in order to serve three new sectors - the north extension of Namatoa
(1,800 ha), the west extension of Ankazomena (1,500 ha), and the Mangolovolo
area (400 ha) (see map IBRD 13655). The existing main canal would be extended
by a distance of about 8 km up to Mangolovolo, and a gravity irrigation and
drainage system would be developed to serve the north and west extension
sectors. The road network would include the necessary service, traffic and
access roads.



- 12 -
(b) Land Clearing and Levelling and Development of the Tertiary and
Quaternary Network
The proposed north and west extension areas are currently in medium-
dense forests. These areas would be cleared and land would then be levelled
in preparation for development of the tertiary and quaternary irrigation and
drainage networks. Land clearing and levelling techniques have been developed
since the 1960s in the Mangoky area and SAMANGOKY has considerable experience
with these works. The quaternary irrigation system would be of reinforced
concrete in most areas, except where heavy soils permit an earth network.
Concrete canal segments would be manufactured at an existing factory estab-
lished for the purpose and located in the Project area. The principal in-
vestment items would be land clearing and levelling equipment to supplement
SAMANGOKY's existing stock, materials for manufacture of canal segments, and
direct costs for land clearing and levelling, and development of the irriga-
tion and drainage network.
(c) Detailed Design Studies and Supervision of Works
Detailed designs have been completed for the irrigation and drainage
systems and on-farm development works. The available data are adequate for
cost estimate purposes. Detailed designs and surveys, preparation of tender
documents, and supervision of works will continue to be carried out by con-
sulting engineers engaged by the Department of Agricultural Engineering with
the approval of IDA and IFAD (Section 3.02, draft Joint Project Agreement).
(d) Incremental Agricultural Inputs
SAMANGOKY would farm land developed in the extension areas in asso-
ciation with farmers who would settle in the area. Rice would be grown on 80
percent of the land and cotton on 20 percent. Project investments include
the cost of incremental agricultural inputs required for these developmelnts
(seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and extension services).
(e) Applied Research in the Project Area
An applied research program, especially for rice, is urgently needed.
Research work would aim at (i) finding improved varieties of rice and assess-
ing their adaptability to different kinds of soils, including saline soils,
in the project area; and (ii) determining the best cultivation techniques
including sowing and transplanting dates; fertilizer, pesticide and herbicide
application methods; and rotation systems. Research would be followed by the
implementation of a seed multiplication program and farmer training program.
Terms of reference for the research program would be submitted to IDA and IFAD
for approval (Section 3.07, draft Joint Project Agreement).



- 13 -
(f) Social Infrastructure
About six new primary schools would be constructed and some existing
schools would be extended to serve migrant families settling in the Project
area. The newly-constructed schools would be of austere standards and would
be financed by SAMANGOKY and the fokonolonas. SAMANGOKY would expand an
existing secondary school by one classroom, establish a new technical training
school and enlarge an existing dispensary to serve its own needs and those of
the surrounding area.
(g) Technical Services
The Project would include a program of studies to prepare future
development projects for the Mangoky delta. The studies would focus on phase
2 of the long-term master plan, that is, the development of about 20,000 addi-
tional ha of land on the left bank of the Mangoky River. Terms of reference
for these studies would be submitted to IDA for approval (Section 3.07, draft
Joint Project Agreement).
The Project would include technical services for applied investi-
gational research on operating problems; such studies would include trials
with sub-surface drains in small areas to assess the impact on production,
particularly with regard to salinity problems. Short training programs and
study tours would be included for SAMANGOKY staff and Ministry officials
directly concerned with the Project. Monitoring and evaluation studies to
assess development of production trends and sociological aspects of develop-
ment would be included.
(h) Project Preparation Work
The Project would include a program of project preparation work
which would have the dual objective of preparing proposals for projects for
presentation to the Bank and other financing sources and of strengthening
the project preparation capacity of the Ministry of Rural Development. The
Government has prepared a list of project proposals which include promotion
of several commercial/industrial crops and integrated regional development
schemes; these studies would be conducted either directly by the Ministry
of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform or by consultants engaged by the
Ministry. Detailed proposals for these studies will be submitted to IDA
and IFAD for approval (Section 3.07, draft Joint Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
34.       The project would be implemented over a 5-year period by SAMANGOKY
under the overall direction of the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian
Reform. SAMANGOKY is responsible for all development schemes in the Mangoky
region including (i) all operations related to cultivation of the developed
area together with the associated farmers; (ii) all building construction
works; and (iii) force account works, particularly land development.
SAMANGOKY's organization and responsibilities reflect its role as a Government



- 14 -
development agency with considerable autonomy. SAMANGOKY's role would remain
fundamentally unchanged during execution of the proposed Project. Government
would consult with IDA and IFAD prior to approving any changes in SAMANGOKY's
current constitution, legal statutes and operating regulations, and organiza-
tion which could have a material impact on Project implementation (Section
4.04, draft Joint Project Agreement). SAMANGOKY operates in a designated
development zone of the Lower Mangoky Valley and is ensured through legisla-
tion in force of appropriate authority for land development activities in
the area.
35.       SAMANGOKY has developed gradually since its establishment in 1961
and is now a well-managed and experienced institution with effective manage-
ment procedures. SAMANGOKY has been managed entirely by Malagasy staff since
1976 and its performance in recent years has been entirely satisfactory.
No major changes in staffing or management are expected. Government would
consult with IDA prior to appointing a new director of the Works Department
of SAMANGOKY (Section 4.05 (b), draft Joint Project Agreement). SAMANGOKY's
Works Department is responsible for all land development activities. The
Department would continue to operate autonomously within SAMANGOKY's organi-
zation. Management information systems adequate to accurately identify
costs of land development works would be employed (Section 4.06, draft Joint
Project Agreement).
36.       SAMANGOKY's total subscribed capital is currently about US$1.3 mil-
lion, with the Government holding almost all the shares. SAMANGOKY covers all
its operating costs from its production revenues with the exception of an
annual grant from the Government to cover maintenance costs of the primary
irrigation system. It is expected that this grant, representing only about
one percent of total revenues, will be phased out within four years. SAMANGOKY
has no significant outstanding debt. SAMANGOKY's present financial position
is satisfactory. The company's balance sheets and income statements for the
past 10 years indicate that charges to farmers cover all current costs and
give SAMANGOKY a small profit on its operations. The principal issue for
SAMANGOKY's future financial position is whether the company should pay to
Government a sum reflecting a charge for utilization of land and irrigation
infrastructure or whether SAMANGOKY is in a position to undertake debt for
land development works. This issue, which arises from the cost recovery issue
cited below (para. 42), would be discussed in conjunction with the agreed
modification of the current cost recovery scheme; when the Government has
presented detailed proposals on cost recovery to IDA, SAMANGOKY's financial
plan and, specifically, the issue of capacity to service debt or to pay a rent
charge to the Government would be reviewed.
37.       Assurances were obtained that SAMANGOKY would:  (i) maintain
accounts adequate to explain Project activities; (ii) ensure that these were
audited every year by auditors acceptable to IDA; (iii) submit audited finan-
cial statements to IDA not later than nine months after the closing of the
fiscal year; and (iv) submit for IDA and IFAD approval any significant changes
in existing accounting and audit procedures (Section 4.02, draft Joint Project
Agreement).



- 15 -
38.       The Government would submit to IDA and IFAD (i) an annual report,
verified by the Ministry of Finance, summarizing the financial situation of
all Project activities and a description of control procedures (Section 4.01
(b), draft Joint Project Agreement); (ii) an annual report on Project progress
including a proposed work program for the ensuing year for IDA and IFAD review
not later than October 1 of each year (Section 3.06, draft Joint Project
Agreement); (iii) detailed proposals for a monitoring and evaluation system
for approval by IDA before December 31, 1979 (Section 3.04 (d) draft Joint
Project Agreement); and (iv) reports on a regular basis on agricultural
production and matters relating to it in the project area (Section 3.04(e)
of the draft Joint Project Agreement). A completion report summarizing
performance under the Project and evaluating its success and problems would be
submitted to IDA and IFAD not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower, IDA and IFAD (Section
3.04 (c), draft Joint Project Agreement.
Cost Estimates
39.       Total Project costs are estimated at US$29.4 million, of which about
US$18.0 million or 61 percent represent foreign exchange costs. Detailed
costs are as follows:
---- US$ Million----
Local Foreign Total
(a) Major Civil Works                      1.5    3.6    5.1
(b) Land Development                      3.9    5.6    9.5
(c) Design studies & supervision          0.2    0.3    0.5
(d) Incremental agricultural
production costs                      1.2    1.5    2.7
(e) Social infrastructure                 0.1    0.0    0.1
(f) Training, applied investiga-
tion, research & proj. prep.          1.4    2.0    3.4
Total                                8.3   13.0   21.3
Contingency Allowances
Physical                              1.2    1.9    3.0
Price                                 2.0    3.1    5.1
Total Contingencies                       3.2    5.0    8.1
Total Project Costs                      11.4   18.0   29.4
Taxes and Duties                           3.0
Total Project Costs
(net of taxes and duties)               8.4   18.0   26.4



- 16 -
Financing Plan
40.       The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
US$           Percent
(million)        of Total
Government of Madagascar                       4.8              18
SAMANGOKY/Farmers                              2.2               8
Cotton organization/Farmers                    0.9               3
IFAD                                           6.5              25
IDA                                           12.0              46
Total Costs (net of taxes and duties) 26.4               100
41.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$12.0 million would be to the Govern-
ment of Madagascar, on standard IDA terms. The Credit would finance about
46 percent of total Project cost (excluding taxes and duties). IFAD has
agreed to provide a loan of SDR 5,0 million equivalent (approximately US$6.5
million) to the Government for the Project; the terms of this loan would be
similar to those of the IDA Credit, and it would finance about 25 percent of
total Project cost. The IFAD loan would finance land clearing and levelling
costs, applied agricultural research and investigational work, and Project
preparation for projects for rice, oilseed, and livestock production.
SAMANGOKY would finance from its revenues and retained earnings working
capital for incremental rice production and the development of social infra-
structure. As CFDT has in the past, the successor cotton company would
finance working capital requirements for incremental cotton production.
Farmers would participate in the financing of Project investment through their
labor input. The Government would finance about 18 percent of total Project
costs.
Recovery of Costs
42.       In the past, capital investments in development of the Mangoky
irrigation network and land development have not been recovered directly
from farmers or from SAMANGOKY. Under SAMANGOKY's system of cotton pricing
and rice cultivation charges, farmers have paid their full share of the pro-
duction cost and current charges of SAMANGOKY: extension services; operation
and maintenance of the irrigation network; SAMANGOKY's overhead, financial
charges and direct production inputs. This system is supported by the Govern-
ment on grounds that farmers in the SAMANGOKY scheme have no ownership rights;
the Government retains full title to land and improvements. The Government,
however, has not yet formulated a national policy on cost recovery for irriga-
tion development or on charges to farmers for services. Under the Bank-
financed Lac Alaotra project, farmers were expected to pay the full costs of
land development, but following political agitation in the area, payment



- 17 -
schedules were significantly reduced.  In Morondava the Government lhas neither
determined an appropriate cost recovery system nor enunciated the principles
on which such a system would be based. Since SAMANGOKY's current system
has worked relatively effectively, IDA, IFAD and the Government agree that
the system should be altered only following careful evaluation of the conse-
quences for SAMANGOKY and farmers. Agreement was reached that the Government
would gradually introduce a system of investment cost recovery and that it
would submit detailed proposals for cost recovery from SAIANGOKY farmers for
review by IDA and IFAD not later than June 30, 1980. It would consult with
IDA and IFAD thereafter on progress in implementing this cost recovery plan
from time to time (Section 3.08, draft Joint Project Agreement).
Procurement
43.       Contracts for major civil works would be awarded following inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. These
works would comprise extensions to the primary and secondary irrigation and
drainage networks, and tertiary drainage system and road works; total value
is estimated at about US$7.5 million (including contingencies). Similar works
have been carried out in a satisfactory manner in the past in the Mangoky
irrigation scheme by international civil works contractors. On-farm develop-
ments, installation of the tertiary and quaternary irrigation network, and
manufacture of canal segments would be carried out by SAIANGOKY, on the basis
of arrangements satisfactory to IDA between SAMANGOKY and the Government
(Section 3.01(b), draft Joint Project Agreement). The estimated total cost
of these works is about US$14.0 million (including contingencies).
Disbursements
44.       The credit would be disbursed over five years on the following
basis: 80 percent of total expenditures for major civil works and for manu-
facture of canal segments and installation of the irrigation network; 100
percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of local expenditures for
engineering studies and supervision, training, monitoring, and evaluation
studies, and project preparation. Disbursements against all categories
would be fully documented except for expenditures related to civil works
carried out by SAMANGOKY, which would be made against a certificate of
expenditure. Retroactive financing of about US$200,000 for detailed design
studies, soil surveys and other initial expenses from September 1, 1978
is recommended. Neither the Association nor IFAD will disburse against
parts C (extension services, marketing facilities and agricultural inputs)
and E (social infrastructure) of Schedule 1 (draft Joint Project Agreement);
these items will be covered by Government and SAMANGOKY contributions.
Benefits
45.       Benefits resulting directly from Project investments would consist
of increased production of rice and cotton. The value of annual incremental
production is estimated at about US$3.9 million at full development (year 9).
Additional benefits would result which have not been quantified. Improved



- 18 -
social infrastructure would ameliorate the health situation in the Project
area; applied research and investigational work would eventually result in
higher productivity; and investments in training courses and study tours would
improve dissemination of new cultivation techniques. Moreover, long-term
benefits would result from funds spent for the preparation of phase two of
the valley's development and for technical assistance for general project
preparation.
46.       The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of the
Project is estimated at about 18 percent over 40 years. The rate of return
was tested for sensitivity. If investment costs were increased by 20 percent,
the rate of return would be reduced by 3 percentage points to 15 percent; if
operating costs were increased by 10 percent, the rate of return would be
reduced by one percentage point to 17%; if benefits were reduced by 20 percent,
the rate of return would be 12 percent. If benefits lagged by one year, the
rate of return would be 14 percent.
47.       About 3,200 families or 19,000 persons would benefit directly from
the Project. The farmers would include both traditional farmers from the
Mangoky region and recent immigrants from other parts of Madagascar. The
average farm income would be nearly US$800 or about US$130 per head, as com-
pared with a farm income of about US$220 on traditional farms in the area.
The Project would create new employment for about 8,500 people, among them
250 new employees of SAMANGOKY.
Environmental impact
48.       While the natural vegetation (forest) of the region is being removed
and replaced by irrigation supporting a large population, project developments
are not expected to have an adverse environmental impact.
49.       Schistosomiasis is a serious health problem in the SAMANGOKY area,
and its incidence has increased with development of the irrigation system;
it currently affects an estimated 5-10 percent of the population. SAMANGOKY
and Ministry of Health officers seek to control the disease through treatment
of infected areas. The Government has assured continued support of appro-
priate control programs (Section 4.09, draft Joint Project Agreement).
Risks
50.       The success of Project implementation will depend almost entirely
on the quality of SAMANGOKY management in executing land development works
and in organizing agricultural production, and on the degree of support and
control over their activities exercised by the Ministry of Rural Development.
SAMANGOKY is well managed and compares very favorably with other Malagasy
institutions working in the agricultural sector, but this situation could be
altered by changes in staff or if the nature of its statutes and relations
with the Ministry are altered without due consideration of the consequences.



- 19 -
51.       A related problema is farmer discipline.  SAMANGOKY currently exerts
strict controls over agricultural activities.  With the on-going reorganiza-
tion of local administration and Government, it may be possible that respon-
sibilities and part of the authority for SAMANCOK'Y's scheme may be transferred
to the fokonolonas and that decisions could be made on land distribution or
organization of agricultural activities which might result in deterioration
of the scheme. The Govern.nent a-reed to consult with IDDA and IFAD prior to
introducing any maior change in SIA:ANCOKY's existing agricultural production
system (Section 4.07, draft Joint Project Agreement).
52.       A third problem, particularlv concerning cotton but to some extent
also rice cultivation, may be increasing salinitv or alkalinity of soils.
Off-setting these risks are the basic simplicity of Project design and
SAMANGOKY's proven experience with the proposed developments.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the draft Joint Project Agreement
betw2en thie Democratic Republic of 'ad.3gascar, the Association, and the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
54.       Special conditions of the Project are in Annex III.  In addition
a condition of effectiveness is that the borrower enter into arrangements
with SAMANGOKY to carry out certain parts of the project on behalf of the
borrower (Section 5.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
February 22, 1979



- 230-                                                       Page I
T^IILI 3A
NDACASCAR - SOCIAL SI0ICATORS DATA SPECT
RZFZIEKCg GROUrS (ADJUSTED AVIaOES
LDAGACA                                              it
LAtD ARF.A (THOUSAND SO(. PM)                                            _ 1DT *ZCT  EiSSTDTE)
TmTAL           S92.0                                                SA          SANC     HXT  lCHER
ACYICULTURAL    3b8.6                               HOST RECENT    0IOURAPHIC    NCOM        INCOME
1960 Lk    1970 A  ESTIMATE Lk     REGION a   CNoUP g    Cto'1F L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)               110.0       150.0    210.0           223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERrY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(IISLOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   38.0        71.0     71.0            86.7       88.9      251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATtSTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR                                  *
(MILLIONS)                       5.9         7.6      9.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 10.0      14.1      14.5           13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                     10.0        13.0      16.0           16.4       46.8        42.?
PER SQ. P3. AGRICULTURAL LAND   16.0        21.0      26.0           53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 ns.                        39.0        46.1      47.3           44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                       57.5        50.2     49,2            52.7       53.3       52.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.5         3.7       3.5            2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GRO'iTr RATE [PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.4         2.6       3.1            2.6        2.4         2.7
lNtRAU                           4.0         6.2       5.2            5.8        4.0         5.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.1       49.7      50.2           46.9       44.3       42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.6       24.2      21.1           20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            2.9 /j      3.2       3.3            3.1        2.9         3.2
FA117LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..          ..        ..
IlSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        ..       ..             2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDra oP PFO0  PP-ODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           99.0       100.0      89.0           94.2       96.4       104.3
PU CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PECERNT OP
REQU7RDCN;tS)                 104.0      103.0    !05.0            90.1       92.5        99.5
-VOTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)        55.0        53.0     57.0            55.2      50.0        56.5
OF WH1ICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     17.0 j     17.0      15.6 h         17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     ..        33.3 a      *-             *-         *-        7.5
HALTH
LIFO EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.9       40.9      43.5           43.7       45.5       53.3
DIFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        133.0 1f   102.0  I      ..          138.4      102.7       i2.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
I'tAL                             ..        11.0      25.0           22.4       26.4       31.1
URIAN                             ..        67.0      76.0           66.3       63.5       68.5
RUlAL                             ..         1.0      14.0           10.4       14.1       18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCEiT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..            23.9       16.1       37.5
URBAN                             ..        :8.0       ..            70.3      65.9        69.5
RU.AL                             ..          ..      9.0            14.2       3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       10400.0/f  11390.0  10820.0 LI       21757.5   13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   3930.O/t.k  3760.0   3640.0 L        3473.8    6983.3-    2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
tOTAL                          510.0       400.0    420.0           645.4    1157.6       736.5
URBAN                             ..       170.0    240.0           172.9      183.3      278.4
IIUIAL                            ..       520.0    500.0          1292.6    1346.5      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..           19.2       19.5       19.2
SOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             *-         5.8      4.7             4.9       5.2
URBAN                             ..         5.3      5.0             5.0       4.8
RURAL                                        5.9      4.7             4.7        S.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSCNS PER ROON
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..
URBAN                             ..          ..       ..              ..       1.8         2.3
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DHELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..         5.0       ..              ..       25.9       28.3
URBAN                             ..          ..        ..
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..        8.7       10.3
*  According to the latest available census data mid-year population in 1977
is estimated to be only 8.0 million which would raise the GNP per capita to
US $240.



- 21-                                       ANNEX I
TAIL! 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHETT
REFZRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MADAGASCAR 
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAMH        SANE     NEXT HIGHESt
NDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Ab     1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP td    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROL-AENT RATIOS
PRLMARY:    TOTAL                 52.0        83.0      85.0            52.1        62.9        75.8
FEMALE               45.0        77.0        ..            37.6        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  4.0        11.0      11.0             8.0        14.4        17.7
Fe1ALE                3.0         8.0       9.0             5.0        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SECONDARY) 9.0          9.0       7.0              7.2        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           70.0        65.0      63.0            43.2        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                         24.0        20.0      24.0             22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        39.0      40.0             20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0         6.0       6.4              3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                        15.0        80.0     112.0            40.1        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ,.         0.5       1.0              2.2        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  8.0         8.0       9.0             3.9         6.0        16.3
CINEKA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5         0.7       0.4              1.2        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAPOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2100.0 /a   3800.0   4400.0
FDEALE (PERCENT)                  46.2        45.7      45.5            32.6        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             93.0        83.0      83.0            73.3       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.5         3.4        ..
PARTICIPAIION RATE IPERCENT)
TOTAL                               53.7        32.3      50.5            42.0        39.8        37.8
KALE                                58.7        37.7      56.0             54.8       53.3        50.3
FEKALE                              48.9        47.0      45.2            27.3        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1         1.1       1.0              1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBIJTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   41.0 In       ..        ..            25.7       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  6s.1          ..        ..            55.1       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.2          ..        ..             5.8        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0 /n       ..        ..            14.5       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                               .,          ..      85.0            74.1       71.9        97.9
1ST IMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LML (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                          l110.0                                  124.4      100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.0            59.6       42.0        87.3
ESTIATED POPULATION BELOU POVERTY
INCOHE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               *-          *-      25.0            26.8       46.0        22.9
RDRAL                               ..          ..      90.0            47.6       48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
MOTES
La    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifora.
A     Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
|c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e Lover Middle Income
(S281-SSO per capita, 1976);  /f  1962, rural population only; L.  1961-63;  /h  1972-74 average;
L. 1966; U. Including assistant medical officers and dentists;  /k  Includes midwives and assistant
midwives;  /1  Including midwives;  /m  1957;  Ln  Population.
September, 1978



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
yFLT?iTTTONS OF qOCTIL FtRTTCATI7RS
Notes:   Although t!r dol te er  draw  tr-eure  generli  fudged the noet authoritct-n and reliable. it should al- he noted that then nay not ha inter-
natloallr.Hnipreftvecneenf ho lckt of scodordtned deitnitlon  and concpt. u-nd hv differen  counries  in c1iletig the dece.  r'ho dac. are. neiee
uatit   ooru    len' ouiue1odct   rn.  and characteriz  crai tao  differences between co.a mia..
Ptj.'The ed.IIotod A-,pcore   for each i.dioctor ore            uoinoihe   geo-irt   ma ., eecldlag the  xret  celes  f  he idicaser and the met
group  neroge lotcaplttnuris "itFprcronincarofoceeowtradscra diaoa.dhou.o.   lcnadietribocion end povertyar
mo   ppuatonumlattdge-tric scen  with.out thr t.          ao   of enree.  nus
LAND AREA (thocea.nd eq. he)                                                              Pouainpr hopclbed -Ytotal. -rhat. and rura  - Population (total.
Tt-al - local outfac  etr- ocotain  land area and islandwaters.                            uroo _adrural)dictod by th it resp...c ice tuber of hospital bed.r
moicitra       lot recat Otnoeo  arcltrlarscedttpurarily                           -oilable in poblf in cd prin-to gnrlad eceiateed hospital.ad  a
or peraaei  fr crps, p-tcrn.-   srket sod citchee gardens at to                          batlitioaceen    H.ifpta  ar nsbliahmente porn.astly stffe  by
lefallow.l                                                                             at Inoe  on  ph-otn1an.  Eatah(thnetj          rdigprincipally owetdia1
car  art not Included.  RaraIhoepltaa  hcwrner  Isuluds health  and mmdi-
GR1' Ff5RCAPITA (USl) - CSP per capita netiastee an cotnt etches pritee,.)                    alcsesntpermanenly atoffod by a phye.ioias  (hut by a medIcal ar
-calculted by eas  cocaeosnthod se World Beask Atlee (1975-77 bai)                         een,frs   idwiIr, etc.) which after Is-pas.tes  ......daties end
196i, 1970, esd 1977 da.                                                                 pr-tde aIialted r-nn cf sedIcal facilities
Adiaion   e  ho            bealhd -_Total number of adelesiens to an diechergam
ENfACY CONSUMPTION PER CAPtTA - Annual In-eumptlos. of  tmeca   e.ergy                      iron.    spt.       doedby the camber of bede.
(cccl and lig.iuto    orlu,    nau al  e  ad hydra-. .. ouwler and g50-
torsal oc-nricity) In kilugcam   of coaI oqainalsac Pee caPita.                     HOUSItING
A-eraco utnoof ho.a.behld (Per.... Pet house.hold) - tonal. Tnban, and reral-
POPU'LATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household coosiocs of a group of indinidoa. who share lioing quarters
Total pupuataon,I aid-na  (sillio-e) - Ae ofJuly ii if sot availble,                       sed tho ir nu"n ends.  A boarder or lodger say or nay not be included In
ntotof two  -nd-poar nuimawo  196,970, asd 1977 dasa.                               the hou..ehold for otstiatical purposes.  Stat-etical definition  fP ai;.--
)LlPtns2lplucluc loerococof tuit.) - Rtiolo urbas so canal popua-                   hold very.
dona; difterent definitions of urhas areas nay affect  -op-bllty                       Anerace osber of pcraoe.n.        tn    t-tcoel urbat, end t.otl - Anetag.nus
nf dafo ancog coutriea.                                                                  bet of peron  pr ton.  ou11, urban, und tutul occpied covet..               n
Poua sdes-inn                                                                        dwnlligoa.  reaIPnucn-lp.   Weellisge eanlde  uspenase               ct.usr.,
Pet  cc. ha. - Mid-pea  populattun par aqusc  klil-mt- (100 beccres.)                     unoccpIedPets.
of total area.                                                                         Acc-- tc electricity (P.cret  of dwrllingu) - total. urban. and  -rurl1
Par  g. ka. agrloultu-  land - Cuaputed as shon  far sgrinlturl land                     Cu tne t.o.aI dwell lgo outh eloectrcity in liningqecesa  per..teentag
-nly.                                                                                    of total, urbes, and rural doe11loga respecti-cly.
PuoLatLccont tre(eret  - Children (0-14 years) , working-age
(15-64 year), and rotiood (65 y...a an d ...er) aa pr-ategee af  lid-               EDUCATION
Yea  population.                                                                      Adluated e..ollsestratios
Popultion gothrae(eot)-celenurs 2 ,- Conpaud annal                                       Pirint  nnhocl -  otl  an.d fnea.le - Total ssd f.m,sle narsilast Df all ages
gr...th fate  of total ond uban ni-erpopulationsforL950-60.                              on ibe priaory lena!l aspretag    ofrepniey rmaysboeg
191-7, and  ..70-75.                                                                     pocuio;onlyicue   bleoae   -Ipaabtsjuedfa
C9d  Ochroe(prtcucd  -enio  iebitsprta nd sO                                             diffe-rn  lengths uf pri-ary eda-tnlo; for --utrine withtusiaea  edo-
nid-ce-   yotlt -o u-y-ac soitfhau  acerogee eding to 1960 md                            cool    -.1nroleo  nay enc-d 111 psetent elu.e. n  pupile org bela. an
AUC a-d flv..a,     cOOO   nvg In 1)7   otnesice taeimae                               shon  tho  ftca       chuol age.
C-dAn froathnrot  Hcoov              A-r  l d-utha per thouu-d  fci d-                   N           -hnatobnl-otal,' cud fen..le - Coputed            .e.. bn;eodaryed...-
cear pt uloiuc; tt;-npr orthaeti~- scanoeding in 1960 and 1970                   tcre- qui-nn       Ilo.. tou  yearn of upprod primury  -toeteutiust Pro-
u-d ttvu   cccgn o-dig ic 1971 for scet inten t set imts.                                videe gecrel -crtlonl, or tmacba.r arcioli,  i-arutius  fr! P paple
Croon in-'-   0 raft-Ave toga noehet of daughtes a woman will bear        usually of 11 to 17 poar  ofla ge;rtorteellndofct2oura1s ere generall
on -rnoma  -prodoctive prodiIfieepe  tenon             .. pent age-                  _eolded,..j
upootfic f-cilicy eaten; ca..olly five-er anerages ending Is 1960.                     V_nticau Iotint (pe   ren  of n...ndary) - V-oti-ril institution  tIn-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          o'd eosrl,idncil   r other program  whic h ape rat. lsd.pepmsdtly
fonly  lo       "P -ontcre. annual  tb-..ands) - As..oal samb- of                    onodeproec    f aoc-dary taic-It-onn.
actoecur-  of botch-control dtnt_  under ..ospiosa of nanionel femily                 .u.-.olrreo-etor,an                   Deodary - Total etudents enrolled in
MacIng-  poo"g-a                                                                         pvry  cc' utudry -lvl   tided. by nosete oft. oohsrs is'Lhe no-es-
yuccl  olaicin-usno  (orono  of  arold coeo..  .fr.e.. a. tat -                    spading 1enel.
na,rtid wOC   f chuo-keriog age (11-44' years) oho .ee birth-con.trol                 Adult litefrcy note (-e...nt) - Listrase adults  sbIe to read sd wrte  s
oti-e  t  all macrri~d unne  in name age gr...p.                                       apercentage of total  adult popuatirn agd Ii years and snee.
155  lt  !TRTTIOS                                                                 CONSUIIPTIOR
laenofTod production Per oselta (1970-100) - Ind... ounbee of per                  Pssegr car  (net. thousand cp...icotin)    Passeng r,tr   -opriae Str care
sa.pit. aac-l production of all fod nnoiecsatglcehn eigh  peosa   00lde  m                                                                         hln . Ire   s    ilitary
PeDaissNIn of ouorien (Perce..t of recafrasesn) - Canputad fro.                  vehicle..
esergy equicalene of net loud  -uppllne  -iulable is .... try pnr -apins              Radio co..eivero (c  tcrn   ouanol-Altperffcie  fur radio
pe  dy.A-1ilabla auppl be  "toriae doneatfo prcdu-tio.r  in-arte lees                broadogeta to general1 public e,      huado   ouain  eon1 lud               ...ol Ie'oa
enpotne, sod ch-go- is  t-ok.  etl,  eupite  e lde esinal feed, sends,                 reoiners isouo-ieoad  oyur hn                   risraco  o.fradi  sts   si
qns_slc  sd in food P..ce..Io, andPlon  tod datr ibutio.  R.-                          .ffeot; .dta totrecn  yearny say. not hbco-porbestonac ..ct no"ittee
qairmetn hewr  sscfto_d by FAO base.d as phyilological needs for no-                   abolished lcnig
mal -cttclty and health coosidrirtg e-ira...soatal tenPeture, body                    TVrafet  fonrt,chou-andooiai,;-laeicefo   rudanto gsr
weighta, ago and se-  diotcibatio-  of population, and al11-ing 10 Pe-                   puoprtuso    ouain    oldscllsdC   eent   000
gen t foe rout.eta house.holdIlevel.                                                     triesensd Is peace whec retgis.trationo1f Tv aete  aIn effeot.
Pat  Ita.s spol   fpn o(gaspedy  - Protain contest of per                               gaopsa   lcuaio    er tuuad poolt ige   -  ho.s the anersgetoua
espita  e  eopye   od pe  day.   etapply of fond Is define  a                            tn   si% f'daflytganeta   hintrs    espapor', defined sepsrtodiool puhi-
ehoa,    aq lrne Pcfr     Il onseeeetblished by CISIA provide fcr                   gstlnnidanated prfeaily to tenrding genral nw.In Is  -aside   to.
a simni.   alo....e of h0 gras ef ntal. peateis pec day and 20 grana                     beJ"dsly" if It eppears at least four tiec  5  eeI
ef animali and pulse pratein, of whioh 10 gSee. should ha anisal protots.             Cmes asa-I ettends..e Per fepi,. Per o..ar - laced on shin sbat af titkste
These atandueds are lowr toss those of 75 gram   aft ctaprestsi and                      cold daring the year. isolodiag adeleal..e to drive-in cilsamas and eabile
23 geama of osmmal prosts an as average far the earld, peopos..d bp                      amis.
00 In she ThIrdOrl   od tray
etaPia   ott  supply true asta  asd oulse - Protein suppiy of food                 EMLOYMEN{fT
deeimed frus anloalo and pulsee in g-os  per day.                                     Itu1 labor_force__(tho....ndul    tosiayuctine parsons, isoodiog armed
Child (eans 1-4)  or talitp rate foer thoean!d)   - -anua  deaths pen thon-                fore.         ... snpluyod boo occluding houaewi-e, etudnone, et..  Defist-
end in age group 1-4 pe-re, no   ide  to thisAage group.                                 tosIcnrioun cousrIne are O.tt  opr
Femlefoeonc)- Femal  labor intro 00 proectoge of total Labor forts
HEALTH                                                                                   Aiutuefrcect) - Labor force is forming. futeetrY, ltuntg an d fhinbie
Life enneonan-y an birth (y.-oc  - Ac-rge number ofipaste of life                           epe ng  of tota  labor force.
-eaisio -a  birch; usualIly floe-or avcagS.  ending in 1960, 1970,                    lsdnetrp (pr..entL- Lbor forc  in niniog,  --s-cri,r..n.o .. auf-ouing and
and 1975.                                                                                eocoI Zty.run  ond go aa percentage of tota  labor fonce.
Infant  --rsliec rate fot hosad  - Atonal death. of infant  under                       Perc.ipninio  noe fp nor)nt     ttl ne.ad forala - Total,  -aIe. and
one year of age Per tho"on  la           hlrtn.                                          famals labor fooce- por-rootgno of tfe it r-np-odye populations.
Acento saewter(rcn  ofppuaio)-tota, orbn, and rue1                                      Tbesn are TIOe adjoecd p.rticipacito  ratet  -efI-t-rcaae-
Nunher of people (tota,ulnad rural) with r...e..ble. a..ea. to                           atruootyo of tho popuatio., o-d 1c-g tien  tred.
sate water eupply (Iocldoe ttaa"d' surf-c  waterr   unreaed but                       foo-        dependenc.Y ratIo- Ratio of Popoaion  ceder 15 and 65 aed onet to
ameantaminted caner  n oh 00 cht  tco  pt.rtatd brhl,spig,the lebor fIto  In age gtop of 1-h  ptre.
and sesltarp  -olie) se pe--nsaen of thoir  -opactiv- populatio...
In an2urban see e..  .pablic founttoi or etardpont booted Oct .rot                   INCOMEt DIiTgIBCTION
tha  tiC nete   fromI ..    ho-is  ca -on ided as  olt  withIn tegPecntg  of prc-nt iso-r   (beth.to cah sod.kind)- roi-d by rithast 5
ennble acu o-    f to   os. Is.otla           .ser      sble  o--s woulId                y.r..nt. richest 20prcn. .-      P.se  21 proent.  ad pooret 40 pencest
imly that tho ho,uoifornebrr  tho ho..eohold do no  ha-  to                             of ho..oh.oldo.
sod a dieProotuaopr f lIt aup tfecig the famIty's
water  -edn.                                                                         POVERTY ThRifT GROCPS
Atrene tcnutrtadt-opcee  t-rtoooc ofocrulcaicul--ttal.  cto  end-e<-uodb-clucafoutrt .Inco   ed   oIt, auc~~ nad  ua
rrl-hn.bor ofpoi   ttl.ta,ad  ua)nro   yorc                                             booloe Pon-rco incctIoli  tha  irue.              ln    eu   ho          Iia
Iipoo  on Potoontogo  o  the it renenn    ouaiu.tceoatiltloaeut    b   1o   aeta   o-food eqlnetsIs not
'disjposal  - nay  oI-u. t,he collection  od dipo..., cub or without                     affordabl.
tetnt          h.fbrcsnr  andwat--tser bywoita-r-konss.n                              E.tl.teud  -tel oiroe5           oolcl(S   o  cepita) -orbun and rual1
atthe  un  1plc p--lr  aod umil-ti             ltos                                     Reltion p--ety Inco..lo.I        I  tht inon  lon          ..es  than one-third
tbL'viatlclpy Ihy.lco-  fputo~tl-c dcvidcd by ounhet of pruclc"ig                 -         pr capit p.e.        linoeo ..o.o..tr
pttyalclo-  q-u.  _H    fro. ndnl  no   -a-nioaIty la-o.                              talaraiunli   ru~cottnoo   Iroe  (pren)-  ro  sdtoat
?itjtutlot.   r r.tttttfloruon-Pop.tot-c- dlvidod by  -orer  f                     Par-tn of population  (urban an1 racal) cito aeinther 'obaoate  paot" or
pr-.iccng  -:Uoad tocoic gaduata  -uru-, pr-aItlIa- osun, and                             'relative  poo    o ice_  Is greate.,
E..sosic asd Social  at Dintaioc
trnmsAsolysle and Pejcboslparce-o



-  23  -
ECONOMEC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                                                                 ANNUAE RATEs ow cRm'oTt
US$ Mn           7.                1967.70              I'J70-75                1974-76
CNP at Market Prices                                         1,651.2         100.0                  5.4                 0.6                    - 0.9
Cronsq Domestic Investment                                      213.4         12.9                  6.0               - 1.0                   - 8.6
Gross National Saving                                          190.4          11.5                 28.5               - J.5                      1.0
Current Account Balance                                      -  23.3         - 1.4                  _                    _                       _
Exports of Goods, NFS                                          372.0          22.5                  0.8               - 2.0                   - 1.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                                          418.0          25.3                  1.8               - 3.9                   - 7.0
OUTPUT LABOUR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976                                                        l                                    2/
Value Added                            Labour Force                  VA Per Worker
us$ Ml1n                    I.            Mln                  7         USS                 7,
Agriculture                                            633.0                    38.0            3.36               84.0        188.4             45.0
Industry                                               318.0                    19.0            0.20                5.0      1,590.0            378.0
Services                                               654.0                    39.0
Unallocated                                             69 0 3/                  4.0 2/         0.42               11.0      1,721.0            409.0
1,674.0                   100.0            398               100.0        420.6            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
FMG Bln                % of GDP
1977             1977      1975-77
Current Receipts                                       68.0             15.3       14.8
Current Expenditure                                    78.0             17.6       15.6
Current Surplus                                      - 10.0              2 3      - 0.7
Capital Expenditures                                   20.5              4.6        4.2
External Assistance (net)                               4.6 v             1.0        1.2
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1972     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
(Billion FMG Outstanding at the End of the Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                   68.2      71.5      85.3      86.9     100.0    121.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           - 2.9    - 3.5        6.0      12.7       19.4     29.7
2nv Cr,!1it -o Private and Pare-Putblic Sectors       65.2      65.1      76.3      78.3       82.2      95.9
(Pefcentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7. of GDP                      24.3      23.5      23.4      22.8       25.0      27.3
GDP deflator (1975 - 100)                               72.8      81.3      96.9    100.0       108.2    115.3
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP deflator                                             3.0      12.8      19.2       3.2        8.2       6.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            70.3   - 20.7    171.4    111.7         52.8      53.1
Bank Credit to Private and Para-Public Sectors    - 0.3    - 0.2            17.2       2.6        5.0     16.7
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ At rarket prices
*    2/ Total labour force; unemployed workers are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. (Source: mission estimates)
T/ lport duties
rohbrirv 12, 1q79



- 24 -
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL r7Wb
(Million of US$)
BOlIoce of ?evtnts                     1972           1973          1974          1975          1976    .1977                     _      ERCHAIDISE EXPORTS (AVERACE  1974-76)
Coffee                                                   nVI1$           4T
E.port of Coods, WS                    223.7          250.4        309.4         385.4          372.0     402.6    V     eilla                                                 17.3            6.4
Iport. of Goods. WN                   262.n         283.4         378.         495.5          418.0     451.8    clove                                                        0T.0
Reoerce Cop                              38.3        - 35.0        - 69.0      _11D.1         - 46.0    - 49.2    Nest nod Mest ?rodts                                         6.7            2.5
Fish sod Shellfish                                          1.4            1.2
Iot-rest Paytnats (sst)                   1.9           1.7           3.8           0.8        -1.6    - 1.7        SeSar                                                      13.0            4,3
Worker.' R-ittance-  (Oett            - 31.5         - 23.0        - 16.8        - 22.1        - 18.2   -24.4       Petrol.u.  Products                                        25.6            9.4
Other Factor Psy.Yent* (et)             - 2.5         - 7.9         - 7.9         - 6.0         - 3.3    - 3.2      All other coe-diti*s                                       81.2           30.S
Net Tr.n.fsrs                            36.5          33.3          38.5          48.9          45.8     45.0
Rel-nce on Current Account               3i         - 30.9        _ 51.8        - 88.5        - 23.3   -33.5                 Total                                            271.2         lOo,o
Direct Foreign Is.-s.tont               12.7           10.5          13.2           3.6           2.9      2.8                          EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMItR 31. 1977
Net MLT Borra.itg,
Di.burseosots                       13.5          26.0          20.3          41.3          20.1      22.0
Ao,ortlestion                     - 32.4         - 9.0         - 7.1        - 10 4        - 13.8       3.3
Subtotal                          - 18.9          17.0          13.2          30.9            6.3     18.7    Publie Debt, io luddiog p r nted                                  203
C.pit.1 Gr-ats       1/                  51.9          16.9          20.0          33.6          21.6     20.0    Non-Gu.rnteed Private Debt
other Capital (not)                   4  1.9         - 3.0          - 6.3       - 10.9            0.7    --7.6    Total D.tatsoding & Disbursd
Inc eese tn Rser,es f-)               - 13.7          -10.5          11.7          31.3        -  8.2    _ 0.4
Trau. .tioonS vith 7XP                    (-)           (-)          (3.9)       (13.1)            -       (1.6)
1.,0rts of Petroleu.                    17.7          19.4           50.4         73.2           57.1                                  DEBT SERVICE RATrO FOR 1976
Eapurcs of Petrcl.um                      6.7          10.4          23.2          26.1          27.5         -
Public Debt  including gu5rantd                                 3.5
Gross Reperw                            52.2           67.9          49.4       - 35.6           42.2     68.9    mon-CuGr-steed Priest- Debt
Net Res-rvs ./                          76.6           98.0          79.D          57.2          57.8      56.9    Total 0ut.t-ding & Disbursed                                    3.3
EIYRD/UA LBID7NG DECT3tERE 31. 1978 OMIONS US$)
RATE OF EXChANGE                                                                                                                                                            58E            IDA
1972         ~~~1973              1974                  1075    _          1976                        0,utst*adiog & Disburs*d                                 26.32           82.02
USSI,GO-FMG252.2   US,OF:2.7   LISS!.OOFMC240.5   U S$1,OOFMG214.3   USSI.00-}IG239.0                              Out. odin 76s sib                                         61
FElC.00-US$0.0040   MlE.0O-Usso.0045  FMCl.00-US10.0042  FMCI.00US$0.0047  fMl1.00-US$0.0042                      0ntstodiog including                                       *1isboreed  32.17  l57.60
1977
USSL1.0.PNG 245.7
FlMGl.00.US$0.0041
F a Prelieioary
C z DWP vod staff estimtes
11  Incio   ettr rrs arc oe,oisshors. SDR allocot.o.t.  and other pri-at  short ter- capital
2I gstimated ratio ot debt servIce to exports of goods and non-factor *ervices
1!  Met for-cio  -sn.z  of the bankleg nrt-s
lebr-gry 12, 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1978) 4/
Loan or                                                          US$ Million
Credit                                                     (net of cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower       Purpose      Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
Four Credits and four Loans
have been fully disbursed                       25.83     26.25         -
200-MAG  1970   Madagascar    Port                        11.40 1/    0.34
322-MAG  1972       "          Irrigation                 15.30        4.00
351-MAG  1972       "          Highways III               20.60 2/    0.06
488-MAG  1974                  Railways                    6.00        0.62
506-MAG  1974                  Livestock II                9.60        8.00
1065-MAG  1974                  Forestry          6.75                  5.85
641-MAG  1976                  Highways IV                22.00       15.80
663-MAG  1976                  Education II               14.00 3/   13.76
817-MAG  1978                  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric            33.00 5/   33.00
TOTAL                                 32.58    158.15       81.43
of which has been repaid              .41       .55
TOTAL now outstanding                 32.17    157.60
Amount sold
of which has been repaid              -         -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA        32.17    157.60
TOTAL Undisbursed                      5.85     75.58       81.43
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1978)
Loan       Equity      Total
(US$ Million)
1977      Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga    11.0            0.29     11.29
1/   Including a supplementary credit of US$1.8 million made in 1973.
2/   Including a supplementary credit of US$5.6 million made in 1975.
3/   Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
4/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
5/   Not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 200-MAG:      Tamatave Port Project; US$9.6 million credit of
June 19, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: November 27,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1977; US$1.8 million
supplementary credit of October 19, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: January 14, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979.
The project originally consisted of port extension, purchase of
cargo handling equipment, construction of a tanker terminal, and provision
of consultancy services for engineering and supervision, and technical assis-
tance. A supplementary IDA credit was made in 1973. All civil works of the
project have been completed with the exception of the tanker terminal which
was considered no longer justified because of substantial increases in costs.
The Association agreed to delete this item from the project and allow the
available balance of the credit to finance the provision of additional cargo
handling equipment and technical assistance. The project has virtually been
completed except for the procurement of some cargo handling equipment. The
project completion report was circulated in February 1978 and the Project
Performance Audit Report was completed on December 22, 1978.
Credit No. 322-MAG:      Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project;
US$15.3 million credit of June 30, 1972; Date of
Effectiveness: April 30, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Initially, the project was to rehabilitate and extend, in the
Morondava area, existing irrigation systems, and develop 9,300 ha (4,700 ha
for smallholder rice, 2,700 ha for a tobacco state farm and 1,900 ha for a
cotton state farm); village development, roads, schools and health facilities
were included. The project as revised and substantially reduced in February
1976 will complete major civil works envisaged at appraisal, implement on-
farm development works on 2,500 ha of rice areas, establish an applied
research station, and provide agricultural support services, roads and health
facilities.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Major civil works (including construction of a diversion weir at
Dabara, rehabilitation of the Dabara Canal and the North Canal, construction
of secondary irrigation and drainage canals, and construction of the 8.1 km
road between Mahabo and Ankilivalo) are almost completed and work has been
satisfactory. However, SODEMO, the agency responsible for on-farm development
and agricultural services, faces serious management and financial problems and
as a result, on-farm development works have lagged behind schedule and agricul-
tural production is poorly organized, with a small area cultivated and very
low yields. The Government and IDA have agreed on a plan of action to clarify
SODEMO's responsibilities and financial plan and to improve overall management,
but this will require careful monitoring in the coming months.
Credit No. 351-MAG       Third Highway Project; US$15 million credit and
Loan No. 876-MAG:        US$15 million loan of January 17, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: April 17, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; US$5.6 million supplementary
credit of September 24, 1975; Date of Effective-
ness: February 10, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979.
The major components of the project are construction works on about
250 km of primary roads in the central part of the country and consulting
services for detailed engineering of a further 200 km of primary roads. Con-
siderable project cost increases have been experienced as a result of price
escalation and currency realignments, but physical progress and quality of
construction works under the project are generally satisfactory. To help the
Government in meeting part of the cost overruns, the Association approved in
September 1975 a supplemental credit of US$5.6 million. At that time, it was
agreed to delete one of the roads (RNI between Arivonimamo and Analavory)
from the project and to include financing for its construction in the Fourth
Highway Project. The Closing Date will have to be extended by 6 months to
allow disbursements for the introduction of a traffic count study.
Credit No. 488-MAG:      Railway Project:  US$6.0 million credit of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1974;
Closing Date: July 31, 1979.
The project comprises relaying of 60 km of track, extension of
yards and sidings, acquisition of fifty freight wagons, passenger coaches and
miscellaneous equipment; and provision of technical assistance to the railway
in management, financial and operational areas, and to Government for transport
planning and coordination studies. Because of cost overruns the Association
is financing only 35 out of the 50 freight wagons and 5 out of the 20 passenger
coaches originally included in the project; the Caisse Centrale of France is
financing 10 out of the remaining 15. Procurement of items in the credit has
been substantially completed.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
The review phase of technical assistance to the railway has been
concluded. However, implementation has only been partially carried out,
and it is now expected that this will be included in a future Second Railway
Project. Technical assistance to the Government in the transport planning
and coordination areas has also been completed. The closing date was ex-
tended to July 31, 1979 to allow completion of procurement.
Credit No. 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:
US$9.6 million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: June 17, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project encountered serious problems in the three years follow-
ing credit signature, and, principally because of legal and organizational
difficulties, little progress was made. Following significant changes in
institutional and management arrangements, the Credit Agreement was exten-
sively amended; the Amended Agreement became effective September 1, 1977.
The project's situation is much improved. FAFIFAMA, the principal
project implementing agency, is now well-established and operational, with
a full staff complement. Implementation of the project's most important
component - the development of veterinary and livestock services for village
producers - is proceeding well. Pasture improvement is also being undertaken,
but better monitoring of results is required. Schools and health centers are
being constructed, albeit behind schedule. The development of water points
and road improvement began this dry season and results are fully satisfactory.
Cooperation with fokonolona institutions in all aspects of FAFIFAMA's work is
excellent. In the middle west, OMBY continues to provide extension services
to villages surrounding the ranches established under the IBRD-financed Beef
Cattle Development Project. The pilot pig program and ODEMO cattle share
fattening programs have barely begun, with action limited to construction of
some buildings. Financing and administration arrangements have been worked out
however, and the share fattening program should get underway shortly. The pig
program has encountered two new problems; the fivondronam concerned has arrears
to the BTM and is therefore ineligible for new loans. Secondly, breeding stock
urgently required renewal.  The Government is working to resolve these problems.
The Government has selected consultants for a study of cattle marketing and
meat prices, and field work for the study is underway; preliminary work has
progressed well. The Government has also retained consultants to evaluate the
results of the current program and to prepare a second phase project for the
Majunga faritany.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1065-MAG:       Mangoro Forestry Project; US$6.75 million loan and
Credit No. 52: MAG       US$6.76 million credit both of December 23, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists in the planting of 35,000 ha of pine plantations
as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which it is proposed will
eventually supply a future pulp mill to provide pulp for export.  The planting
program is progressing according to the schedule and cost estimates are likely
to be in line with forecasts, despite a reorganization of the project which
entails more building and infrastructure than originally estimated, and
the need for more intensive soil preparation than foreseen at appraisal.
Technical difficulties which occurred at the early stages of the project now
appear to be resolved.
Credit No. 641-MAG:      Fourth Highways Project; US$22.0 million credit of
June 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas
with a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthen-
ing of the country's road maintenance organization. Project implementation
is satisfactory.
Credit No. 663-MAG:      Second Education Project; US$14.0 million credit of
December 10, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing
educational control and to improve the quality of basic education. It in-
cludes five Regional Education Centres and vehicles for school inspectorate,
one Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development,
technical assistance and fellowships.
Architectural design work on all project institutions is now com-
plete. Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production
Centre is being carried out.  The two key technical advisors for this Centre,
provided by ORT (Organisation for Rehabilitation through Training) arrived in
Madagascar during September 1977. Architectural work has generally been well
*            executed although this has taken much longer than expected.  Work on the major
project components, the Regional Education Centres, was completed about 14
months behind the appraisal schedule, although with ORT assistance, the plan-
ning schedule for the Teaching Materials Production Centre has been maintained.
The project is presently about one year behind schedule due to cum-
bersome Government approval/decision procedures, and the Government's recent
proposals for the "socialisation" of the construction industry has introduced
a further element of uncertainty which may adversely affect project imple-
mentation. Serious delays have also been encountered on: the preparation
of an educational sector survey; the establishment of a task force for educa-
tion evaluation; proposals for decentralization of education; and textbook
production.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Norway requested 50 percent participation in the project, and an
agreement to that effect was signed on December 16, 1977. The US$7.0 million
of IDA monies thus saved is available for future projects in Madagascar.
Credit No. 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 19, 1978; Terminal Date of Effec-
tiveness: April 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until
1992 in the Antananarivo area and provide for the strengthening of JIRAMA,
Madagascar's national electricity and water corporation. It includes a
concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground
power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators;
electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo;
engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a storage
reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA Staff.
The credit has not yet become effective. Additional conditions of
effectiveness are: (a) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and JIRAMA and (b) signing of the external loans providing
the balance of external funds to be obtained by Madagascar and fulfillment
of conditions precedent to disbursement of such funds.
Tenders have been received for civil works, gates, turbines,
generators and switchyards. Total project costs are expected to be substan-
tially higher than estimated at appraisal.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1065-MAG:       Mangoro Forestry Project; US$6.75 million loan and
Credit No. 52: MAG       US$6.76 million credit both of December 23, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists in the planting of 35,000 ha of pine plantations
as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which it is proposed will
eventually supply a future pulp mill to provide pulp for export. The planting
program is progressing according to the schedule and cost estimates are likely
to be in line with forecasts, despite a reorganization of the project which
entails more building and infrastructure than originally estimated, and
the need for more intensive soil preparation than foreseen at appraisal.
Technical difficulties which occurred at the early stages of the project now
appear to be resolved.
Credit No. 641-MAG:      Fourth Highways Project; US$22.0 million credit of
June 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas
with a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthen-
ing of the country's road maintenance organization. Project implementation
is satisfactory.
Credit No. 663-MAG:      Second Education Project; US$14.0 million credit of
December 10, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing
educational control and to improve the quality of basic education. It in-
cludes five Regional Education Centres and vehicles for school inspectorate,
one Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development,
technical assistance and fellowships.
Architectural design work on all project institutions is now com-
plete. Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production
Centre is being carried out.  The two key technical advisors for this Centre,
provided by ORT (Organisation for Rehabilitation through Training) arrived in
Madagascar during September 1977. Architectural work has generally been well
executed although this has taken much longer than expected. Work on the major
project components, the Regional Education Centres, was completed about 14
months behind the appraisal schedule, although with ORT assistance, the plan-
ning schedule for the Teaching Materials Production Centre has been maintained.
The project is presently about one year behind schedule due to cum-
bersome Government approval/decision procedures, and the Government's recent
proposals for the "socialisation" of the construction industry has introduced
a further element of uncertainty which may adversely affect project imple-
mentation. Serious delays have also been encountered on: the preparation
of an educational sector survey; the establishment of a task force for educa-
tion evaluation; proposals for decentralization of education; and textbook
production.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Norway requested 50 percent participation in the project, and an
agreement to that effect was signed on December 16, 1977. The US$7.0 million
of IDA monies thus saved is available for future projects in Madagascar.
Credit No. 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 19, 1978; Terminal Date of Effec-
tiveness: April 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until
1992 in the Antananarivo area and provide for the strengthening of JIRAMA,
Madagascar's national electricity and water corporation. It includes a
concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground
power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators;
electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo;
engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a storage
reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA Staff.
The credit has not yet become effective. Additional conditions of
effectiveness are: (a) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and JIRAMA and (b) signing of the external loans providing
the balance of external funds to be obtained by Madagascar and fulfillment
of conditions precedent to disbursement of such funds.
Tenders have been received for civil works, gates, turbines,
generators and switchyards. Total project costs are expected to be substan-
tially higher than estimated at appraisal.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project             1-1/2 year
(b)  Preparation                               Government, SAMANGOKY and
consulting engineers (SOGREAH
and SOMEAH)
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA              December 1976
(d)  Pre-appraisal mission                     July 1977
(e)  Appraisal mission                         April 1978
(f)  Negotiations                              October 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness             April 1979
Section II: Special Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
Consultation with IDA and IFAD on the pricing, financing and marketing
policies affecting rice and cotton production (para 25 and 26) in the
Mangoky Region.
Consultation with IDA and IFAD prior to any changes in SAMANGOKY's
statutes (para 34).
Continued autonomous operation of the Works Department within SAMANGOKY;
exchange of views with IDA and IFAD prior to making new appointments to
the post of Director of the Works Department of SAMANGO"Y (para 35).
Submission to IDA and IFAD before December 31, 1979 of proposals on
monitoring and evaluation (para 38).
Submission to IDA and IFAD for their review of detailed proposals
on recovery of investment costs from farmers not later than June 30,
1980 (para 42).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Provision by Government of adequate financial and staff support for
schistosomiasis control program (para 49).
Consultation with IDA and IFAD prior to any major changes in SAMANGOKY's
agricultural production system (para 51).



IBRD 13654R
4?                                                                           &'                                         J                  es                     JANUARY  1979
-12'                                                                                                                                                                              12
Antombokca
MADAGASCAR                                                                                 +
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
NOSSI-BE                                   -
Major IBRD Projects                      Paved Roads                                         Hell e                                   Voherr
MAJOR  CROPS                             All-Woother Roads
Vanilla                      ---------   Non-permanent Roads                                   -       /     -
14  LI--   Pepper ~P-p                               Roilroods                                                                                      * Sa-- - U
Cloves                          4.       Airports
LII |  Sugor                             .   -       Rivers                                                                 B. no,onc'
Cotton                                -  Isohyets (cm per year                    Anclolddiuv X*
Pois Du Cap                              Forstony Boundaries                                                                                Antalaha
NOTE' Rice and Cottle ore distributed
throughout the country.
o      sO      too     150      200      250                       Mohonga                '  
KILOMETERS              450
' MILES                           _- Sola > (                           M    nor r -                                                                                     16-
i     4    2    I       KM 3]88 ~    ~     ~~2 B  .e Ts.rctnn      ,/cr!...Ivnr
N
-./                             7   Mrorlenobe        i4iX  \                             X          P      t    - b
Mnt4nz                                                                                                                                           us z  .
\  7  A  b Anknzobe Anioloorobk-b                                                     Toamasina
Antsa                            4i
i-a 3 .                           - -s           Tsilat)omAlidi mndidy 
' +   >  Sc"J  | Fahja       ka7.n ......d,g                       C      kc
Ts,,-,,, k                                                                              
50'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
--   ~~~'! a n  a    r       O                                                  \   ' ,1     N t              Inniar
22'                                                           s                                                                                                                  25'
"Aokvomb.                       A Mokoro                          ThnS    i.- pp-d b tn.
W42d  ,k, 00ff. 43A'w fr
Th. d-i.tonui-n 0.d0 dn.
bn-nd.n... -bes air 5)5..5
d10no -tph onZ  55 Wi.  of tIrS
WorM B.nk .sd Se fit.r.nr
Frfongana                         judgsrne -s Sn. Aee *.Ss fn
VangoindronoY niy    y  d-
24'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
"I"                                  4.51'                                  4 6'                                  45S






IBRD 13655
,*>35               ,/    tS                               4340                                                       43'50     AUGUST 1978
MADAGASCAR
Mangoky Agricultural Development Project
PROPOSFD EXISTING
=I ZIjiIIlrr.goted areas
-  f I   \   il  _   AMain canals
11  -  Rivers
-4 t-  )     s  aDi k e         2 1 '2 0 '
____Main roads
---Boundary of AMVR
tsttiFX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2a  K,o,*a9
I t  3   2   '    0\                                                          S   0      2      4     6      3     10
K . IM,I.s
,3 W x   < s                   <m                                            1                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21.30'
AMATOA           Ablskl
|   >                   Tslonihy    t a       n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~saIn
X  /                         ' XTNNRTIEXTENSIONW$S 
J\t  I  --1  * //                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bekap3nf\a t (@ 
ZAIRS,   MAI\(TANZAANDRANOMANINIA
AN2OLA i 0'     MAN$6LV>                                                                                                                               214
.   9 ?                     '?--AntCsTTUer4 5    OUeC\  9
UNION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~U
~~~~T. M...b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/' T.,nrn,,d,. . -nd
43',30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~440,Oioa                                                                         20 Toiiu



