Document of
The World Bank
r!L '.,     pt :       '
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2178-MAG
MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 14, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =       Malagasy. Francs (FMG)
US$1.00             =        FMG 225 /1
FMG 100             =        US$0.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                    British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                           =        3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m3)         3          =        35.31 cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m /sec)              35.31 cubic feet per second
1 hectare (ha) = 100 ares             =        2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2                        0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )              =        0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
I kilogram (kg)                       =        2.20 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                           =        0.26 U.S. gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  =        2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
BTM              Bankin'Ny Tantsahe Mpamokatra - National Rural Development Bank
CENRADERU/       Centre national de recherche appliquee au developpement rural -
FOFIFA           Agricultural Research Agency
CFDT             Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles -
French Textile Company
FAC              Fonds d'aide et de cooperation of the French Government
FED              Fonds europeen de developpement - European Development Fund
IFAD             International Fund for Agriculture Development
SAMANGOKY        Society pour l'amenagement et la mise en valeur de la Vallee
du Bas Mangoky - Development and Production Agency for the
Lower Mangoky Valley
SINFA            Societe d'interet national pour la production agricole -
National Agricultural Production Company
/1   Exchange rate prevailing at the time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- i.i -
SODEMO            Societe pour le developpement economique de la region de
Morondava - Economic Development Agency for the Morondava
Region
FISCAL YEAR
Government - January 1 - December 31
SAMANGOKY - October 1 - September 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- iii -
MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF  THE MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.         PROJECT BACKGROUND  .......              .................................               1
II.         THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  ..................................                             1
A.   General           ..............................................                   1
B.   Major Crops and Livestock  (Except Rice and Cotton) ....                           3
C.   Government  Services  ... ............................                             5
D. Irrigation Systems.                                        ....    8
E. Government Development Plans.. .                                                     9
III.         THE  SUB-SECTOR - RICE AND COTTON PRODUCTION,  PROCESSING
AND MARKETING  ............................................                            10
A.    Rice        ........................          ........................           id
B.    Cotton         .....................         .........................           12
IV.         THE  PROJECT AREA AND SAMANGOKY  ...........................                            15
A.   Tulear Faritany  ............................................                     15
B.   The Mangoky - The Region and the River  .............                     ..      16
C.   Mangoky Development Master Plan  ..............                  ....1....        1
D.   Samangoky  ..............  ..            ............................             19
V.         THE MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT  (CREDIT 322-MAG)  ...................                .... ..........          20
VI.         THE PROJECT  ............... .............                 * .........................  22
A.   General Description  . ....               .... . ... .... ..................      22
B.   Detailed Features  ....................................                           23
C.   Project  Costs  .............................................                     29
D.   Financing        .............          ...............................           31
E.   Procurement  ..........................................                           32
F.   Disbursement  ........              ................................              33
G.   Accounts and Audits  ......                ...........................            33
H.   Environmental  Impact  . . ......  .................   .......                    34
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to
Madagascar in April 1978, composed of K. Marshall, L. Pham, S. von Klaudy
(IDA) and P. Jutras (Consultant).



- iv-
Page No.
VII.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................    35
A.  Project Management  . ...... .                   .       35
B. SAMANGOKY ......36
C. Project Preparation               ....    40
D.  Project Implementation Schedule .....................    41
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation .....   ......................    41
VIII.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND PRODUCER BENEFITS ...........    42
A.  Technical Features       ..................................    42
B.  Producer Benefits ......    .............................    44
C.  Production Estimates ................................    45
IX.    GOVERNMENT AND SAMANGOKY BENEFITS ................... ....    45
X.    MARKETS AND PRICES .......     ...............................    47
XI.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....      .................    48
XII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED .......     ...............................    50
Supporting Tables and Charts:
Table 1      Summary of Project Costs
Table 2      Project Financing Plan
Table 3      Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Table 4      Project Implementation Schedule
Table 5      Farm Models
Table 6      SAMANGOKY Cash Flow
Table 7      SAMANGOKY Agricultural Cash Flow
Table 8      SAMANGOKY Project Related Cash Flow
Table 9      Economic Rate of Return Analysis
Chart 1      Ministry of Rural Development Organization
Chart 2      SAMANGOKY Organization
List of Material Available in Volume II
Maps
Madagascar - Agriculture and Rural Development IBRD 13654R
Mangoky Agricultural Development Project IBRD 13655



MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF THE MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Madagascar formally requested in March, 1978,that
the Bank Group finance an agricultural development project in the Mangoky
Valley. The proposed Project represents the fourth and final tranche of the
first phase of a long-term master plan for the development of the Mangoky
delta; previous investments have been financed by the Fonds D'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) of the French government and by the European Development
Fund (FED). The Project proposal was prepared by the Ministry of Rural
Development and by the Societe Malgache d'Amenagement du Mangoky (SAMANGOKY),
the parastatal development agency responsible for land development and man-
agement in the area, with assistance from consulting engineers (SOGREAH and
SOMEAH 1/). This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
in April 1978, composed of K. Marshall, L. Pham and S. von Klaudy (IDA), and
P. Jutras (Consultant).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
2.01      About 85% of Madagascar's population of about 9.22/ million live in
the rural areas, and agriculture dominates the economy. Agriculture contri-
butes about 40% of total GDP, accounts for more than 80% of export earnings,
and supports directly over 80% of the population. Madagascar's agricultural
sector is striking in its diversity. The rural economy varies with the
sharply different geographic regions; Madagascar produces a very wide range
of crops and other agricultural produce, and a variety of production systems
are employed, ranging from large-scale mechanized and sophisticated production
systems to the simplest, small-scale traditional farming. This diversity has
to some extent protected Madagascar against the vicissitudes of international
commodity prices and adverse climate (drought and cyclones being ever-present
hazards). It also contributes to wide disparities in wealth and level of
development among geographic regions. In many areas, the standard of living
is close to subsistence level, while in others, the population is relatively
prosperous. 2Although the country is sparsely populated (average of 16 inhabi-
tants per km ), there is great pressure on cultivable land in some regions.
Owing mainly to different ecological conditions, the central highlands and
particularly the area around Tananarive are more developed and prosperous
than the coastal areas, and the south is particularly poor.
1/   SOGREAH - Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques
SOMEAH - Societe Malgache d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques.
2/   According to the latest available census data, mid-year population
in 1977 is estimated to be only 8.0 million which would raise GNP
per capita to US$240.



2.02      Geography has had a vital influence on Madagascar's agricultural
development. Climate, topography, soils, and natural vegetation vary widely
among different regions of the island, and have influenced the development
of quite distinct production systems. In addition, communications links
in many parts of Madagascar are very difficult, and the road network is in
general poorly developed; this has contributed to regional distinctiveness
and to the isolation of many areas. Rice cultivation and cattle husbandry
are two common denominators found in almost every part of Madagascar, but
most other agricultural activities are concentrated in a few specific areas.
There are five major agricultural regions: (a) the central plateau includes
the highlands extending north - south in the center of the island; the
plateau is hilly, bisected by small valleys and a few larger basins, and
climate ranges from sub-tropical to temperate. Population is concentrated
in this region, and most suitable land is under intensive cultivation.
Rice is the dominant crop, supplemented by other food crops (notably manioc),
fruits and vegetables, and cattle; (b) the east coast constitutes a long,
narrow belt; climate is tropical, rainfall is high, and the cyclones which
strike Madagascar annually concentrate their force in this area. Population
here is relatively dense; coffee is the dominant cash crop, with rice the
staple food crop; (c) the northern zone also has a tropical climate and high
rainfall, but topography is more varied than on the east coast. Population is
less dense, and is concentrated in the major production zones. Many of
Madagascar's export and industrial crops are concentrated here, notably spices
(vanilla, cloves, pepper) and sugar; (d) the west coast constitutes a vast
plain intersected by broad river valleys. Climate is drier, although rainfed
cultivation is possible in most areas. The region offers excellent natural
pastures while the valleys have rich potential for irrigated crops or culti-
vation on the flood plains, but most areas remain relatively underdeveloped
and population is sparse; (e) the south is Madagascar's least developed
region; climate is relatively arid and agricultural potential is limited also
by soils and topography. The population depends largely on traditional cattle
re2ring for their livelihood. Madagascar's total land area is about 592,000
km ; about 5% of land is under cultivation, 60% is used as natural pasture,
and the remainder is classified as mountains, deserts, forests, lakes, and
urban areas.
2.03      The growth of Madagascar's agricultural production over the past
15 years has been disappointing, with the average rate of increase somewhat
less than the population growth rate of 3% a year; from 1970-75, the annual
rate of increase was about 2%. This performance largely reflects the low
rate of growth of rice production and the stagnation or even decline of the
national cattle herd. During this period, production of some crops increased
significantly, notably cotton and coffee. In addition, favorable commodity
prices have increased the value of key exports (coffee, cloves). The impact
on the overall economic picture has, however, been limited because of the
paramount importance of rice and livestock. Madagascar was a net exporter
of rice in the past, yet rice imports may exceed 200,000 tons in 1978, while
the volume of meat exports has steadily declined in recent years. Reasons
for the slow growth of agriculture are complex, but among the key contri-
buting factors are serious marketing problems for many crops, agricultural
pricing policies, poor roads which hinder extension services, input supply and
marketing, and a profusion of institutions responsible for development which
lack staff and funds, and whose policies and areas of jurisdiction are poorly



-3-
defined. These problems and the sector's disappointing performance should
not obscure, however, the fact that the potential for agricultural development
in Madagascar is very substantial. Many commodities now being produced offer
excellent scope for expansion, while intensification of production in vir-
tually all parts of Madagascar could significantly increase output. Par-
ticularly on the west coast there are large areas of undeveloped yet fertile
land which can be brought into production. In many cases the technical base
for expansion or intensification exists already, the result of intensive
research and trials. In other areas, notably rice production, limited applied
research on new varieties must precede introduction of a number of promising
high-yielding new varieties.
B. Major Crops and Livestock (Except Rice and Cotton)
2.04      Madagascar produces an extraordinarily wide range of agricultural
products: it is quite difficult to find crops, fruits or other species which
do not flourish somewhere in Madagascar. Rice, however, occupies the preemi-
nent position in the agricultural sector; it is grown on almost one half of
all cultivated land, and is the staple food of most of the population. Cattle
also play a vital role: long the traditional symbol of Madagascar, cattle are
reared throughout the country, while beef is regarded as a supplement to rice
in the staple diet of the people. The most important cash crops (which are
also the largest contributors to exports) are coffee, cloves, vanilla and
pepper. Major industrial crops include sugar and cotton. Exports of major
crops may be summarized as follows:
Volume                              Value
(tons)                         (million FMG)
1975     1976      1977           1975      1976      1977
Coffee              67,437   73,000   47,900           14,073   24,738   42,666
Vanilla                858    1,065    1,600            2,966    4,432    8,105
Cloves              22,246    4,700    3,500           17,344    5,813    5,866
Pepper               n.a.      n.a.      1,990          n.a.      1,311    2,184
Butter Beans         n.a.    14,900   10,080            n.a.        792    1,257
Luxury Rice          4,544    n.a.       n.a.           1,043       475       376
Sisal               23,086   17,800   15,600            2,134    1,382    1,389
Raffia               n.a.      n.a.      n.a.           n.a.        722       407
Meat - Frozen
and Canned         6,284    n.a.       n.a.           2,429    1,658    1,761
Sea Foods            n.a.      n.a.      n.a.           n.a.      2,948    3,798
Sugar               39,897   29,400   26,350            4,770    2,085    2,560
Textiles             n.a.      n.a.      n.a.           n.a.      2,065    2,689
Total Exports                                          63,044   65,369   85,977
2.05      After rice (paras. 3.01-3.07), manioc is the most important food
crop; most production is consumed on the farm. Other food crops are naize,
beans, sweet potatoes, and potatoes, but these are less important in terms
of total output. Coffee is grown mainly on the east coast, and by small-
holders; production has increased in the past few years, largely as the



- 4 -
result of a program to rejuvenate coffee plantations and introduce new cul-
tivation techniques. Production was estimated at about 79,000 tons in 1976
and 89,000 tons in 1977; as a result of the recent boom in coffee prices,
coffee contributed almost 50% of Madagascar's total export earnings in 1977.
Cloves, vanilla and pepper occupy relatively small land areas in specific
geographic areas, but are of major importance for exports. Madagascar is
a leading world producer of cloves, which are concentrated on the east coast,
north of Tamatave. Production has increased steadily in the past decade,
despite variable production reflecting a normal four-year cycle; 1977 output
was estimated at about 15,000 tons. Vanilla production is also concentrated
in the northeast, and Madagascar is the world's leading producer. Most is
grown by an estimated 38,000 smallholder vanilla growers, and production is
about 5,000 tons (green vanilla) a year. Pepper is also produced in the
northeast and west; production ranges between 3,000 and 5,000 tons a year.
Sugar is produced in four existing estates, one on the east coast, and three
in the northwest. Sugar production has remained relatively constant, and
new investments have not been made for some time. About two-thirds of sugar
production is consumed domestically and the remainder is exported, most to the
EEC. Cotton production is discussed below (paras. 3.08-3.13). Tobacco was
formerly an important cash crop, particularly in the current cotton production
areas; however, production has declined recently, largely because of competi-
tion from cotton. Oil seed production has increased slowly in recent years,
and Madagascar imports increasing quantities of fats and oils. Oil palm and
coconut schemes are being implemented on the east coast, and in the west
efforts are being made to promote peanut production, which has declined in
recent years. The inefficiency of the processing industry, limited extension
services, and controls on prices have curtailed growth. Madagascar produces a
wide range of minor commodities, including wine, tung oil, medicinal plants,
ylang ylang, raffia and aleurites; none makes a major contribution to total
output, but they have important local effects and collectively could make a
significant impact on total agricultural production and exports.
2.06      Livestock.  Cattle are the traditional symbol of Madagascar (the
curved horns of the Malagasy zebu are pervasive emblems of the nation),
and much of the population is heavily dependent on livestock production.
Madagascar has important natural advantages for livestock production, with
a comparatively Rood position regarding animal diseases and vast areas of
natural pasture. The cattle herd, variously estimated at between 7 and
11 million head, virtually all raised on an extensive basis, is owned by
traditional herders who use almost no modern techniques and make minimal
cash investments for livestock. Herd productivity is low and only a
small part of the herd enters commercial channels (perhaps 3-4% of the
total herd a year); production is stagnating, and marketed supplies are
probably declining, while domestic demand has rapidly increased. The
principal causes are lack of a clear national program to aid traditional
livestock producers, pricing policies which limit financial incentives to
producers, and a marketing policy, aimed at reducing the role of private
intermediaries, which does not function effectively. If these problems
are resolved Madagascar could be restored to its previous position as a
major beef exporter. Madagascar, which has traditionally exported beef,



- 5 -
primarily to France and to other Indian Ocean islands, obtained a quota for
duty free exports to the EEC under the Lome Convention. There is excellent
potential for other forms of livestock production in parts of Madagascar,
notably pigs, poultry and dairy; the Middle West region, west of Tananarive,
in particular offers good potential for mixed farming.
2.07      Forestry production is of major importance in two areas, along the
east coast escarpment east of Tananarive, and in the southern plateau area
around Fianarantsoa.  Here about 100,000 hectares have been reforested with
pine.  Major projects based on forest industries are currently under study.
Fishing is increasing in importance; Japanese fleets fish Malagasy coastal
waters, and have been largely responsible for a marked increase in shellfish
exports. Otherwise fishing, both sea fishing and inland fishing, offers
excellent potential, but it has not yet been exploited.
Farming and Production Systems
2.08      Agricultural production systems vary from sophisticated, mechanized
production systems, as for cotton in the northwest, to very simple subsistence
agricultural techniques. Farming techniques for smallholders vary quite
widely among regions, ranging from relatively sophisticated rice cultivation
techniques involving elaborate terracing and partial water control systems to
slash and burn cultivation and semi-nomadic cattle husbandry. Private enter-
prise has dominated agricultural production in the past, but the Government
is playing an increasingly active role; most noteworthy is the nationalization
of the sugar industry in December 1976, and the Government's assumption of
responsibility for marketing of rice and other foodcrops, for cattle market-
ing, and for meat processing and exports. The Malagasy government is empha-
sizing the role of parastatal enterprises in its new political orientation
("socialist enterprises"). State farms under the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment also are involved in a range of crops. The Government is now emphasiz-
ing socialist cooperatives for farmers, but very few have been established to
date; the same applies for collective production within the fokonolona system.
Traditional, largely subsistence farming dominates Madagascar's agriculture
despite these developments, and most of Madagascar's estimated 1.5 million
farm families are smallholders. Traditional land rights prevail in most of
Madagascar; these recognize individual rights to cultivated land, with rights
passed on to heirs, and collective (fokonolona) rights to pasture.
C. Government Services
2.09      A large number of institutions have responsibilities for agricul-
tural production and development, and their organization reflects both the
complexity of the sector as a whole, and the historical evolution of insti-
tutions and production patterns. The Ministry of Rural Development and
Agrarian Reform is the central institution for rural development programs.
The Ministry has four major operating departments; they are organized sepa-
rately at a regional level, normally down to the fivondronan-pokonolona (sub-
prefecture). The Agriculture Department provides the basic extension service,
concerned principally with plant protection and to some extent extension;



- 6 -
Agricultural Engineering (Genie Rural) develops and operates official irri-
gation systems, provides other services such as tractor hire and water devel-
opments, and oversees Ministry construction projects; the Livestock Department
is principally concerned with provision of veterinary services, and is also
responsible for marine fisheries; and Forestry is responsible for reforesta-
tion programs, but also seeks to control brushfires (a widespread problem),
and to promote inland fisheries. A fifth Department of Programming is respon-
sible for planning, and for overseeing semi-autonomous regional authorities,
which are part of the Ministry itself, and parastatal agencies. The Depart-
ment of Agrarian Reform is principally concerned with redistribution of land
formerly farmed by expatriates. In addition to the Ministry's basic ser-
vices and departments, several regional extension agencies provide services
to farmers in parts of Madagascar. These are formally part of the Ministry
but tend to function quite autonomously. Most were part of the GOPR (Groupe-
ment d'Operation des Productions Rizicoles), a large extension project, now
discontinued, which was financed by the FED. The extension organizations
include the URER's (Unite regionale d'expansion rurale) of Itasy, Tananarive,
Antsirabe, Ambositra, and Fianarantsoa, the ZER (Zone d'expansion rurale) of
Ambilobe, and ODEMO, a development agency for the Middle West. An on-going
UNDP rural development program in the south is developing its own basic ex-
tension organization and services (Operation Androy). About 26 parastatal
agencies operate under the aegis of the Ministry of Rural Development; some
are regional development authorities, normally created in conjunction with
externally-funded development projects (5 of these financed by the Bank
Group); others are more akin to state farms organized for specific produc-
tion activities (silk culture, coffee, citrus, and ranching, for example).
SAMANGOKY, the agency responsible for the Mangoky developments, is among
these institutions. Promotion of the principal export crops is principally
the responsibility of stabilization funds: these finance extension services,
road development, and crop protection (among other activities) from their
own resources; these services are supervised at present by the Ministry of
Economy and Trade. In addition, several Government-owned companies are
involved in marketing of agricultural products.
Agricultural Research
2.10      Agricultural research has been centralized since 1972; previously,
research was carried out by a large number of semi-autonomous agencies and
institutions, most managed by external (largely French) institutions. All
research now comes under the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research; CENRADERU (Center for Agricultural Research for Rural Development)
or FOFIFA, as it is also known, is a semi-autonomous body responsible for all
agricultural research (including socio-economic analysis); it has few formal
links with extension services, as it comes under the central research autho-
rity. CENRADERU has been severely over-burdened with the wide range of
responsibilities and activities it has inherited, and suffers from a severe
lack of qualified staff and funds. It carries out a number of research
schemes with direct support from the Government budget; other projects are
implemented on a contractual basis. The Government has recently requested
UNDP assistance for CENRADERU, to assist in strengthening infrastructure and
in training skilled manpower required for a wide range of research activities.
The most critical area where assistance is required is in programming of ap-
plied research in rice production, notably field trials of new rice varieties.



- 7 -
other areas also operational research has lapsed because of staff shortages;
an important instance is the case of cotton where routine research on renewed
cotton varieties has lapsed in recent years.
Local Government
2,11      The Malagasy Government has undertaken since 1972 a major reorgani-
zation of local administration and government. This reform involves the
establishment of representative institutions at four levels, replacing the
territorial administration of provinces, prefectures, sub-prefectures and
cantons. The new "fokonolona" system reflects an effort to associate tradi-
tional institutions and practices with a more representative and responsive
local governnent, and to provide a vehicle for decentralization of power as
part of Madagascar's socialist revolution. The reform has been implemented
gradually, and many details of the new system, notably regarding local finance,
the role of cooperatives within the fokonolona system, and the role of foko-
nolona institutions in the control of industry and parastatals, are still
being considered by the Government. However, the new entities have assumed
important responsibilities, notably for marketing of rice and other agricul-
tural products, and for planning and implementation of small-scale development
projects. The hierarchy of fokonolona institutions comprises the fokonolonas
or fokantanys, which coincide roughly with traditional village units (about
11,400 in Madagascar), the firaissam-pokonolona, at the former canton level
(about 1,250), the fivondronan-pokonolona, at the former subprefecture level
(about 110), and six faritanys, which have replaced the former provinces.
The Ministries of Interior and of Information and Ideology have primary
responsibility for supporting the fokonolona institutions.
Agricultural Credit
2.12      The BTM (Rural Development Bank) 1/ is the principal source of
credit for agriculture, and since 1977, when banking functions were reorgan-
ized and private banks nationalized, it is the official and sole institution
authorized to lend in the rural areas. Credit for specific commodities is
also extended in the form of inputs with costs recovered at harvest time,
and through parastatal agencies (such as SAMANGOKY). It is likely that in-
formal credit channels supply the needs of many farmers, but no systematic
information is available on such lending practices. The BTM was established
by Decree of December 27, 1976; the new Bank took over the "agricultural"
and "social" portFolios of the BNM (Malagasy National Development Bank) (rep-
resenting about 47% of BNM's activities) which was dissolved at the same
time. In June, 1977, the BTM absorbed the BAMES, a large commercial bank
which was nationialized. BTM inherited a large part of the staff of the BNM
and of BAMES, and in virtually all respects has to date continued the lending
practices of the predecessor organizations. The BTM is organized into six
regional sub-divisions, one per faritany, and operates through a network of
branches (41 branches and 30 offices). The Government's objective is to
establish one branch per fivondronan and one office per firaissam.  At head-
quarters, the General Manager and Deputy General Manager, Operations, assisted
by three Directors, orient and supervise all operations. BTM employs about
1/   BTM is the Malagasy acronym for Rural Development Bank.



-8-
1,050 staff, including 98 professionals. Resources at present comprise BTM's
equity (FMG 4.5 billion), deposits, Central Bank rediscount facilities, and
outstanding loans from the CCCE to BNM. BTM's lending has expanded rapidly
in the past three years. BTM is, however, limited in its rural development
lending by shortages of resources. Loan approvals for 1976 were FMG 21.8
million (US$100,000) for long-term loans, FMG 548.4 million (US$2.4 million)
for medium term loans and FMG 231.8 million (US$1.0 million) for short-term
loans. A high proportion of short and medium term credit has been extended
for marketing. In addition, BTM has recently increased very substantially
its credit to farmers through the fokonolona institutions (as moral guaran-
tor). BTM is likely to increase its activities rapidly in the future, as the
Government views it as a key institution to support its rural development
policies and the primary source of rural credit. BTM promises well to
fulfill this role as it has a competent and experienced staff, a relatively
large branch network, and sound financial experience, lending practices,
policies and procedures. A project to support the BTM's credit activities
is currently under preparation with RNEA assistance.
D. Irrigation Systems
2.13      Large areas of land in Madagascar are irrigated or involve some form
of water control system, including most land used for production of rice.
There are three categories of irrigation or water control systems: official
systems, small irrigation schemes, and family rice fields. Official systems
are those developed and managed by the Government, either with external finan-
cial support or with local funds. These systems range in size from about 300
to 10,000 hectares, and the total number is estimated at 145 systems, with a
total of about 260,000 hectares. Many systems, however, are incomplete or
poorly designed, while maintenance problems severely impair the effectiveness
of virtually all systems. The Ministry of Agriculture estimated that in 1976
only about 125,000 ha out of the 260,000 ha developed for irrigated agriculture
was actually cultivated; this illustrates the severity of operating and main-
tenance problems and the need for repair or rehabilitation in many networks.
The largest official systems are in the Lac Alaotra area and in the Betsiboka
Valley south of Majunga. Small irrigation schemes are those developed with
local funds with varying degrees of support by the Government; there are an
estimated 900 such schemes. The average area is about 125 ha, but they range
in size from about 5 ha up to 1,000 ha. Since they are not official, classi-
fied systems, the Government does not maintain or operate these systems; in
many cases these systems are operated by local communities, but in virtually
all cases operation is inefficient and funds for maintenance inadequate.
Family rice fields cover up to 750,000 hectares and range in size from one
are to perhaps five hectares. All were developed by farmers themselves, and
involve some water control measures, from basic terracing of valley bottoms
to simple storage dams. All are maintained by farmers with varying extension
assistance from Government services.



- 9 -
E. Government Development Plans
2.14      The Government of bMadagascar's broad objectives for rural develop-
ment are articulated in a development plan approved in November-December 1977.
It includes a long-term strategy, for the period 1978-2000, a three-year plan
for 1978-80, and a program for 1978. The new plan does not represent an
abrupt departure from the previous 1974-77 plan, but is more expansive in its
treatment of socialist institutions and objectives. In essence, Madagascar's
stated objectives for the year 2000 are to transform the society and to
develop a strong and self-sufficient basis for development; the period 1978-84
is seen as a period of laying the foundations, 1985-92 are for consolidation,
while 1993-2000 are to be years of expansion and growth. In the long-term
plan, three goals are emphasized: (a) attainment of self-sufficiency in food
and development of basic industries, largely supplied by the agricultural sec-
tor; (b) decentralization of all economic activities, through the fokonolona
system, and assumption of a more active and direct Government role in the
economy; and (c) narrowing the gap in distribution of incomes, and promoting
more balanced growth among regions.  Agriculture is to represent the basis of
all developments, and will receive a major share of investment and effort.
The plan emphasizes the linkage of Madagascar's economical, political, social
and cultural development to the establishment of a socialist regime. For
agriculture, the major proposed changes entail promotion of an agrarian
revolution and creation of socialist cooperatives; the agrarian revolution
principally involves Government assumption of control of cultivated land,
particularly estates or plantations which have been lying idle for some time,
or newly-developed land; socialist cooperatives would theoretically be re-
sponsible for this land. The plan foresees state control over basic indus-
tries, particularly those related to agriculture, and states that at a later
stage the fokonolona institutions (para 2.11) and the socialist cooperatives
should manage these basic industries.
2.15      The 1978-80 plan includes specific objectives for agriculture.
Agriculture is expected to grow more slowly than other sectors: average
growth rate of value added is expected to be 4.3%, while the rates for
mines and energy and industry are estimated at 8.8% and 10.7% respectively.
Value added of processed agricultural products such as sugar, rice, fats,
and textiles are forecast to grow at higher average rates than the sector
as a whole. In 1980 individual farms are expected to contribute about 80%
to value added generated in agriculture, cooperatives 10%, socialist enter-
prises 2.5% and private enterprises 2.5%. About 15% of total investments
in real terns are assumed to be allocated to agriculture, most of it by the
Government. The plan recognizes that, in spite of the growth rates assumed
for production, employment possibilities in agriculture will increase very
little, reaching about 3.9 million in 1980 (versus 3.5 million in 1975).
Industrialization is considered the only feasible long-term solution for the
problem of unemployment. The plan aims to improve rural living conditions,
thereby limiting migration to the cities.



- 10 -
III.  THE SUB-SECTOR - RICE AND COTTON PRODUCTION, PROCESSING AND MARKETING
A. Rice
Production
3.01      Rice is grown on about 50% of permanently cultivated land in
Madagascar (about 1.1 million ha), and it is the staple food of the Malagasy
diet; Madagascar's per capita rice consumption (190 kg per year) is among
the highest in the world. Total production fluctuates around 2 million tons
a year; yields thus average somewhat less than 2 tons of paddy per hectare.
Total production varies considerably from year to year, in large part as a
result of weather conditions; the production trend since 1960, however, has
been an average annual increase of somewhat less than 3% a year. Rice is
grown throughout Madagascar, but is concentrated in the high plateau area
and in the northwest. Of land under rice, family rice fields represent about
70-80% of the total area; these are generally terraced rice fields in valley
bottoms, ranging in size from a few ares to perhaps 5 hectares, relying on
partial water control systems developed by farmers themselves. Most farmers
produce a single crop a year, relying almost exclusively on traditional pro-
duction techniques; only occasional surpluses of paddy are sold for cash,
as rice is produced primarily for family consumption. Despite extension
programs aiming to improve cultivation techniques and introduce new varie-
ties, average yields do not appear to have increased significantly in recent
years, and most production increases appear to have resulted from bringing
new land into cultivation. The remaining 20-30% of land under rice represents
organized irrigation schemes developed or supported by the Government (para
2.13). These schemes vary in size and complexity and in the method of organi-
zation and land tenure; in the more sophisticated schemes, two crops of rice
a year are produced and yields per crop exceed 2.5 tons; in general, however,
poor maintenance and incomplete or inadequate irrigation and drainage systems
seriously impair the effectiveness of these schemes, with the result that much
land is underutilized and yields are little above those of traditional rice
areas. The largest and most productive irrigation schemes are in the Lac
Alaotra basin and around Marovoay, south of Majunga; these and other large
schemes supply a high proportion of Madagascar's marketed rice production.
Marketing, Processing and Imports
3.02      Most rice production is consumed by farm families; surpluses are
sold in good harvest years, with the bulk of marketed production coming from
a few large irrigation schemes. Total marketed production of paddy ranged
between 217,000 tons and 309,000 tons in the years 1970-77, representing an
estimated 11%-16% of total production. Rice marketing and processing were in
the hands of private traders with minimal Government intervention until the
revolution of 1972. Subsequently, rice marketing has been entirely national-
ized. From 1973-77, the Societe d'Interet National des Produits Agricoles
(SINPA), a parastatal company, had a monopoly on marketing - collection,
imports, processing and distribution of all agricultural products but par-
ticularly of rice. SINPA's marketing operations encountered serious problems,
however, with shortages of rice in many areas, increasing requirements for
rice imports, and high costs of all marketing activities. In 1977, the Gov-
ernment assumed direct responsibility for rice marketing and a marketing



- il -
committee, under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister and including repre-
sentatives of the key ministries concerned was formed to establish marketing
policies and to allocate operational responsibilities among different agencies.
The current system functions roughly as follows.  Madagascar is divided into
12 marketing regions, and different agencies have been assigned responsibility
for rice marketing in these regions; SINPA retains responsibility for the
largest area, but various export-import firms (recently nationalized) and
other parastatal agencies (including SAMANGOKY) have been assigned marketing
responsibilities in various regions. The fokonolona institutions have primary
responsibility for collecting paddy within their territorial jurisdiction;
they sell paddy to the authorized marketing agency (collecting a commission
of Fmg 2/kg). Shipments of rice to deficit regions or storage are directed
from a central level, with the Central Bank, the Ministry of Transport and
Supply, and the Ministry of Finance all involved in these decisions. This
system was instituted only during mid-1977, and it is therefore premature to
judge its potential effectiveness. However, since 1972 marketing problems
have become progressively worse, necessitating increasing intervention by the
Government and the army to assure basic food supplies. There appears to
be a growing unofficial market for rice in many parts of the country.
3.03      Paddy is milled into rice in a large number of mills scattered
throughout the country; many have been nationalized and are operated by
SINPA; others are still operated by private traders but charges are fixed
by the Government. There is excess capacity in existing mills for the cur-
rent volume of marketed production but equipment is generally old and out-
dated and significant new investments in milling capacity are likely to be
required in the near future.
3.04      Madagascar has historically been self-sufficient in rice, and
between 1960 and 1970 up to 66,000 tons of rice a year was exported; much
of this was luxury quality rice which fetched high prices on the world mar-
ket, but on balance Madagascar was a surplus producer. Since 1970, however,
this position has changed; rice exports have virtually ceased, and Madagascar
imports significant quantities of rice to meet the growing deficit in domestic
production. Rice imports have evolved as follows (in tons):
1973     1974      1975     1976      1977
27,758   130,134  63,643   71,243   105,190
Rice imports represented an estimated 7% of the total value of imports in
1977. The situation threatens to grow worse, as a serious deficit in produc-
tion, the result of adverse weather, is forecast for 1978, and imports of
up to 250,000 tons of rice may be required.
Prices and Subsidies
3.05      The Government currently fixes prices of paddy and rice at the pro-
ducer and retail levels. Prices are normally reviewed on an annual basis; the
final decision on the price of rice is normally announced by the President.
The producer price of paddy is currently FMG 35/kg (US$0.16): the retail price
of rice is FMG 55 (US$0.24). These prices apply throughout Madagascar. Fur-
ther, the Government fixes margins for marketing, processing and wholesale



- 12 -
transactions. Current price levels involve a significant direct subsidy
to consumers. For domestically produced rice, this subsidy is currently
FMC 15-25 per kilo; 1/ the direct consumer subsidy was introduced in 1977
when the producer price of paddy was increased (from FMG 30 to 35) while
the price of rice to consumers was reduced from FMG 65 to FMG 55. It is
government policy that the Central Bank reimburses marketing agencies for
direct losses from marketing resulting from this subsidy; the Central Bank
has provisionally estimated the subsidy at FMG 15/kg of rice. For imported
rice the subsidy to consumers is larger; 1977 average cif import costs for
rice were about FMG 73/kg (equivalent to US$325 per ton), implying a subsidy
of at least FMG 25/kg when transport costs, losses, etc. are taken into
account; import costs rose sharply in early 1978 and in April, 1978, the
direct consumer subsidy was estimated at at least FMG 40/kg. In addition to
these direct subsidies the Government has subsidized marketing operations of
SINPA and other agencies by covering losses.
3.06      Rice subsidies for domestic marketing operations are financed by
a subsidy fund (Fonds unique de perequation), managed by the Central Bank.
Profits from stabilization funds for major export crops (coffee, vanilla,
cloves) have been paid into this fund; to date, only about FMG 1.3 billion
has been disbursed, which amounts to less than 25% of the direct losses of
marketing companies from rice marketing in 1977. Subsidies for imported
rice are financed directly by the Government, although a large part of sums
committed to date have been converted into a long term loan to the Government
by the Central Bank.
3.07      The Government of Madagascar recognizes the grave implications of
the present situation of rice production and marketing. Essentially, produc-
tion is stagnating, marketing is inefficient and costly, and consumer subsi-
dies represent an increasing burden on the Government budget; there is even
some evidence that low consumer prices have encouraged an increase in con-
sumption of rice in replacement of other food crops. The Government is
seeking solutions to these problems, and programs to increase rice produc-
tion are accorded the highest priority. The problems are, however, highly
complex, with important political implications, for the price of rice, par-
ticularly to urban consumers, is an explosive issue. Intensive efforts to
increase production of rice offer the best long-term solution, while in the
-mmediate future the Government must act to reorganize rice marketing and
to rationalize pricing policies. These problems and their implications for
the proposed Project are discussed further in paras. 10.01-10.02.
B. Cotton
Production
3.08      Cotton is one of the major industrial crops in Madagascar, and the
steady increase in cotton production is one of the most encouraging features
1/   This subsidy is computed as follows by SAMANGOKY (per kilo):  cost of
paddy FMG 35, commission to fokonolona FMG 2, transport FMG 3.5, drying
FMG 0.5, losses (3%) FMG 1.2, milling cost FMG 3, conversion paddy/rice
65%, marketing, interest costs etc. (6%) FMG 4.2 equalling a wholesale
cost of about FMG 74.



- 13 -
of Malagasy agriculture in the recent years. Cotton is produced almost ex-
clusively on the west coast, mostly on flood plains as floods recede, but
also under rainfed conditions and under full irrigation. Cotton production
has increased rapidly during the past decade, from about 9,000 tons in 1967
to more than 37.000 tons in 1977; in 1975 cotton production declined because
of adverse weather conditions. Average yields have decreased since 1974;
they averaged about 1.8 t/ha in 1977 which was equivalent to the yields in
1967; this was partly the result of uncertainties about future political
developments which limited investments by the large privately owned planta-
tions. Cotton production, area, and average yields for 1976-1977 are sum-
marized below:
Production        Area         Yield
(tons)          (ha)       (tons/ha)
1967               9,106         5,205            1.8
1968              11,469         7,646            1.5
1969              16,784         8,762            1.9
1970              18,714         10,313           1.8
1971              21,695        10,851            2.0
1972              23,882        10,101            2.2
1973              30,628        13,361            2.3
1974             33,290         16,089           2.1
1975             30,729         16,342            1.9
1976              34,731         17,515          2.0
1977              37,400        20,400            1.8
3.09      Cotton is produced by private expatriate companies, Government
farms (fermes d'etat), and smallholders. While private companies still con-
tribute nearly 50% of total cotton production, their share has decreased
considerably. The share of Government farms has diminished also whereas
smallholders produced 42% of the cotton in 1977 as compared to about 28% in
1971. Smallholder cotton has predominated in the southwest, around Tulear
and Ihosy, under rainfed conditions. However, SAMANGOKY's smallholder irri-
gated production is playing an increasingly important role and organized
settlement schemes based on cotton have been initiated in the northwest.
The shares of the different groups are summarized below:
1971     1972      1973     1974      1975    1976      1977
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ %__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Private
Companies          54.8     52.4      51.3     49.0      51.0    50.0 )
)   58.0
State-Farms        17.1     16.6      15.1     12.8      13.6    12.1 )
Smallholders       28.1     31.0      33.6     38.2      35.4    37.9      42.0
100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0
The Compagnie Francaise pour le developpement des fibres Textiles (CFDT) has
played a major role in the development of cotton production in Madagascar
since 1956; CFDT Madagascar was established in 1973, as a Malagasy corpora-
tion, with all shares held by private capital. CFDT has had principal respon-
sibility for seed multiplication and distribution and for marketing, including
purchase of all seed cotton and ginning and sale of fiber and seeds to local



- 14 -
manufacturers. In addition, CFDT has organized distribution of additional
inputs for cotton production (fertilizers, pesticides, insecticides, etc.),
organized aerial treatments of cotton, provided seasonal credit, organized
extension services to small farmers, and managed two Government farms directly.
CFDT normally advances inputs and services to farmers, and deducts charges for
these services together with interest from payments from seed cotton; CFDT
thus plays an important banking function for the cotton sub-sector. From
1966-1976, CFDT had a long-term contract with the Malagasy Governnent which
accorded CFDT a monopoly for cotton marketing. Although this contract expired
in 1976, CFDT has since continued its operations essentially unchanged; the
Government is negotiating the establishment of a successor organization which
would be wholly or partially owned by the Government, but which will probably
retain virtually all of CFDT's present structure and operating procedures.
Marketing and Processing
3.10      Marketing.  CFDT - Madagascar is entirely responsible for market-
ing of cotton, and enjoys a monopoly of marketing despite expiration of its
formal contract with the Government. Transportation of seed cotton from
the farms to the gins and of cotton seeds from the gins to the farms is under-
taken by CFDT or by private contractors, the cost being paid by the farmers.
Similarly, the textile companies pay for the transport costs of cotton fiber
from the gins to the factories. CFDT was also responsible for exports of
cotton fiber which played only a minor role during the past few years and
virtually ceased in 1977. Imports of cotton fiber for Madagascar's textile
industry ceased in 1971.
3.11      Processing.  CFDT processes Madagascar's whole cotton production
in its own gins, and stores seed cotton before, and cotton seeds and fiber
after ginning, as necessary. The capacity of CFDT's gins amount to about
48,000 tons of seed cotton per year and was used to about 78% in 1977. The
yield of fibers was 38% or 14,300 tons in the same year. The cotton fibers
are processed by three major textile companies (SOTEMA, COTONA, and SOMACO).
Most of the textile products are sold locally but the share of exports in
textile production increased sharply from 15% to 25% over the past three
years. Cotton seeds are processed by five oil mills. Processing of seeds
faces increasing problems because of aging equipment of the mills and use of
an outdated technical process which yields only 11% of oil. Therefore, in
April 1978 3,500 tons out of 20,000 tons of seeds from the previous season
had not yet been processed. Major investments in rehabilitation of the old
mills and the construction of a new mill would be necessary to use economi-
cally the potential of cotton production for oil extraction in future.
Prices
3.12      The purchase price of seed-cotton is fixed by the Government at
factory level, normally on an annual basis.  The price is determined following
consultation with CFDT and the textile producers. The 1977-78 price was fixed
at FMG 85 per kg for seed cotton of first quality. A second price fixed by
the Government is the price of cotton fiber ex-factory, which is currently set
at FMG 266/kg for first quality. By fixing the purchase price of seed-cotton
and the sales price of cotton fiber, Government reduces CFDT's flexibility to
a large extent and the company has been trying to find ways of saving on the
cost side, e.g. by using cheaper packing materials. A third price fixed by



- 15 -
the Government is the sales price of cotton seeds ex-factory, currently FMG 22
kg. The seeds are sold to the oil mills. CFDT charges FMG 4/kg for treat-
ment, transport, storage, and insurance and remits FMG 18/kg to the Caisse de
Coton, a cotton stabilization fund, as net revenue. This sum is employed to
provide a discount for inputs to producers; when price levels for cotton and
prices paid for inputs are considered, the price structure is generally in line
with international prices.
3.13      The future development of cotton production will depend on the ex-
pansion of areas cultivated by smallholders and the increase in productivity
on their land. If CFDT can pursue its activities as before, it is likely
that new farmers will be attracted by the efficient marketing and services
network and that smallholder productivity will be increased. It is therefore
important that CFDT's contract with the Government is extended. The import-
ance of larger operations is likely to decline further because expansion of
cultivated areas will be slow, while political uncertainties are likely to
discourage further investments by private expatriate-owned firms.
IV. THE PROJECT AREA AND SAMANGOKY
A. Tulear Faritany
4.01      The Tulear Faritany (formerly province), located in the south and
southwest of the island, covers about one third of Madagascar. It includes
the most inhospitable areas of Madagascar in terms of topography, and the
potential for agricultural development is severely restricted by the arid
climate and poor soils. Population of the region is relatively sparse, and
rural incomes are well below those of the more favored parts of the island.
The region is obliged to import food from other parts of Madagascar, infra-
structure is very limited, the road network is poor and much of the area is
inaccessible for long periods of the year. Traditionally, livestock has been
the most important economic activity for the great majority of the population.
The economic potential for the region now appears very limited, and despite a
long-standing effort of the Malagasy Government to concentrate development
resources in the south in order to reduce income disparities among different
parts of the country, few significant projects are underway, and few viable
schemes for the south are included in the Government's development program.
The major ongoing activities in the Faritany are two major irrigation schemes
- along the Mangoky and Morondava rivers, and a development scheme involving
irrigated and dryland cotton and peanuts around Tulear. In addition, the USSR
is planning to finance major studies of the development potential Mandrare
valley. The development of irrigated crops in the river valleys of the south
and west coast appears to offer the best potential for development of the
region; such schemines could provide employment, and increase production of
food and agricultural products for industries (such as cotton, oil mills and
possibly sugar). The capital of Tulear Faritany is the city of Tulear; with
an estimated population of 50,000, it is the major port of the region as well
as an administrative, commercial and industrial center.



- 16 -
B. The Mangoky Region and the River
4.02      The Mangoky delta, located in south west Madagascar between the 21st
and 22nd parallels south, is a relatively isolated natural region bounded by
the Mozambique Channel to the west and inhospitable and sparsely populated
areas to the north, south and west. Until recently, this was one of the
poorest and most sparsely populated regions of Madagascar. The development
of irrigation schemes around Tanandava has had a dramatic impact on that
small area, and a steadily increasing effect on the region as a whole. The
delta is located in the fivondronans of Manja (right, north bank) and Morombe
(left, south bank); both fivondronans are in the Faritany of Tulear.  All
developments to date have been on the left bank of the Mangoky river, and
hence in the Morombe fivondronan. The delta forms a rough triangle, crossed
by the river from the southeast to the north west for about 80 km.  The delta
itself is relatively flat and broad.  There is, however, a relatively pro-
nounced microrelief, the result of the slow water flow and the river's con-
stantly shifting channel, as well as wind and the ocean in areas near the
coast.  The region thus has areas of marshes, depressions, dunes, and of
savannah, and relative~y dense forest.  The Government has designated an
area of about 2,000 km  of the delta as an Aire de Mise en Valeur (AMVR);
this indicates that development schemes are underway in the area, outlaws
speculation in land within the legal AMVR boundaries (see map), and accords
the Government special rights to aid in the development effort.  This land
regime was extended for six years, for February 28, 1976, by Presidential
Decree of March 2, 1978; the region is now known as "la zone d'amenagement
foncier du Bas-Mangoky" (Lower Mangoky land development zone) instead of AMVR.
The Mangoky River
4.03      The Mangoky River rises in the high plateau region south of Fiana-
rantsoa; it is Madagascar's second largest river (after the Betsib9ka) and
comprises the largest river basin, with an area of about 60,000 km covering
all of the central southern part of the island. The river system includes the
Mangoky and its principal tributaries - the Matsiatra, Mananantanana, and the
Zomanda. The river bed widens to the river plain and the delta about 100 km
from its outlet to the sea on the Mozambique Channel. The river carries a
high silt load from its affluents, which becomes more pronounced during the
rainy season and during cyclones. Rapid and violent floods characterize the
river's regime.  nTe river's average flow variel substantially during the year,
from 50 to 1 600 m ; extremes recorded are 13 m /s during low water season
and 32,000 m /s during floods.  The low water seas n of the river is normally
in October or November and is normally around 50 m /s. The period of 5loods
is normally December to March; the highest recorded flood was 32,000 m /s in
January 1970. During floods the water level of the river may vary by as much
as l met r in a single day. The 100-year flood is currently estimated at
40,000 m /s with a confidence factor of 20-25%.
Physical Conditions
4.04      The delta region is composed of ancient and recent alluvial soils.
There is thus a wide variety of soil types, ranging from pure sandy soils to
clay soils in the peripheral depressions, with all types in between. The



- 17 -
natural vegetation reflects the wide variation in soil types. Three major
sub-zones can be distinguished: (a) the coastal zone - saline soils give rise
to mangrove swamps behind the sand dunes lying at altitudes of 1 to 10 meters;
(b) low-lying areas: these areas are flooded during part of most years. They
are known as baibohos, and a large part are cultivated in the dry season; and
(c) higher areas - above the flood plain.  Here, vegetation systems range from
dense forest to light savannas. Degraded forest covers the greatest part of
these areas.
4.05      Climate.  At Tanandava, within the SAMANGOKY development area
(altitude 27 m), the average rainfall over a 20-year period was estimated
at 683 mm, with rain on an average of 42 days a year. More than 90% of
rainfall is concentrated in the rainy season from December to March, into a
peak in December-January.  Total rainfall varies widely from year to year,
ranging from 351 mm in 1957 to 1,127 mm in 1971.  Rainfall is often very
intensive; during cyclones as much as 100 mm may fall in a single day.  At
Morombe, annual rainfall averaged 471 mm over 40 years; variability of ran-
fall is somewhat higher than at Tanandava, and rainq season is shorter.
Average annual temperatures are 17 9 minimum and 33 7 maximum.  Daily tem-
perature ranges are quite large. The climate is thus relatively hot with
significant temperature ranges and a high degree of irregularity.
Population and Social Conditions
4.06      Until recently, the population of the Mangoky developraent region was
sparse and little touched by outside developments. Cattle rearing was the
most important economic activity, and virtually all crop production was for
subsistence. The development of the Mangoky irrigation schemes has resulted
in important social changes for the area, the most important being rapid
migration of population from other parts of Madagascar. In mid-1978, the
permanent population living in the vicinity of the SAMANGOKY development area
was estimated at about 30,000 people, most directly employed in the SAMANGOKY
irrigation scheme. However, a large part of the population remains itinerant,
coming to the area for the cotton harvest and returning to their place of
origin - normally the south - at other times of the year. At some periods of
the year the population probably is larger than 50,000, swelled by seasonal
migrants. The area's populatLoii continues to increase rapidly. The popula-
tion of the SAMANGOKY developments includes a large part - perhaps as much as
50% - of the population of the Morombe  fivondronan, and the remainder 2of the
fivondronan is very sparsely populated, with densities below 10 per km .  The
population of the SAMANGOKY area includes people who came originally from the
Morombe area, and as much as 50% of the population who have emigrated to the
area in search of land and jobs. The greatest number came from the southern
districts of Tulear Faritany but many others have come from the east coast and
the plateaus of Fianarantsoa Faritany.
Agricultural Production
4.07      With the exception of SAMANGOKY developments near Tanandava, the
delta region is poorly developed. The subsistence foodcrop is manioc, supple-
mented by maize grown in shifting cultivation in the forests after burning
vegetation. Although farmers produce some rice in low-lying areas, it is not
a traditional crop in this area. Production of butter beans (pois du cap)



- 18 -
on the flood plains is an important economic activity, and represents the
principal source of cash to farmers. However, support to farmers is available
only from companies which market butter beans and basic extension services are
virtually non-existent. Most farmers own cattle; livestock graze extensively
in forests and on pastures and virtually no modern production techniques are
employed in the area.
Communications
4.08      One major road - the RN55 - crosses the delta, linking Tulear with
Morombe. The road is paved for 65 km between Morombe and Tanandava and earth
from Tanandava to Tulear; the latter segment is barely passable during the
rainy season. Morombe (population estimated at 7,000 inhabitants) is a regional
port; it also has a small airport with flights to Antananarivo and Tulear.
C. Mangoky Development Master Plan
4.09      The rich potential for agriculture in the Mangoky valley has long
been recognized - one nineteenth century traveller predicted that the region
would in time become a small Egypt, with dense population and intensive irri-
gated crops. However, because of the region's isolation and sparse popula-
tion, and because of the unpredictable and often violent regime of the Mangoky
river, the region remained undeveloped until recent years. In 1952, an experi-
mental station was established at Tanandava to conduct research and trials on
various crops and to define broad development options for the delta region.
Shortly thereafter, an ambitious program of studies was initiated, involving
soil and topographic surveys, hydrological, climate, and hydraulic studies,
and investigations of sociological and health factors. Preliminary research
results suggested an excellent potential for cotton production, and the CFDT
(para 3.09) and the IRCT - a French cotton research institution - became
closely involved in the planning exercise at an early stage. The research
and studies programs led in 1960 to the definition of a pilot development
scheme for about 1,000 ha on the left bank of the Mangoky river. This was
followed in 1961 by the completion of an ambitious long-term master plan for
development of more than 100,000 ha of land in the Mangoky valley, and a
project for development of a first phase of 10,000 ha.
4.10      The master plan as defined in 1961 envisaged nine phases of devel-
opment, over a period of perhaps 40 years. The master plan was based on the
assumption that the river's minimum flow was sufficient to permit development
of up to about 30,000 ha using one or two run-of-the-river intakes. There-
after, a diversion weir would be required, and this would permit development
of an additional 20,000-25,000 ha. A site for a storage dam was identified;
construction of such a dam would permit the extension of irrigated area to
100-125,000 net hectares of irrigated land. Phase I of this plan was defined
as the development of an area of about 10,000 ha on the left bank of the
Mangoky river; this scheme has been under implementation since 1961, and
since that time the basic irrigation system for the 10,000 ha area has been
constructed and about 6,000 ha of land have been developed for cultivation.
4.11      The first phase of the master plan was subdivided into the pilot
scheme for development of 1,000 ha, followed by four tranches of development.



- 19 -
The pilot scheme was financed by the French FAC, as a four-year project from
1961 to 1965; it involved construction of a basic irrigation network, land
development, equipment, and establishment of a research station. The develop-
ment of the Phase I program itself began in 1963, following an agreement with
the European Development Fund (FED) to finance a major part of these works.
The first FED agreement covered the period 1963 to 1966, and involved imple-
mentation of the first tranche of works - the Bevoay intake structure, a
desilting basin, a supply canal to Tanandava, and the primary canal PI between
Tanandava and Ambahikily. Construction of major works was completed in 1966,
at a cost of about FMG 1 billion (US$4.4 million). The second tranche was
initiated in 1967, financed by a second FED agreement; this involved con-
struction of a factory to prefabricate canal segments, development of two
sectors of 1,700 ha and 2,000 ha, respectively, agricultural research, and
additional studies. However, following serious cyclones and floods in 1969
and 1970, which caused serious damage to the existing infrastructure and
resulted in changes in the river's course, development of the Tsianihy sector
of 2,000 ha was postponed, and funds were utilized instead to reinforce a
protection dyke along the Mangoky river. At the end of 1971, 2,400 ha had
been developed.  The third tranche was initiated in 1973, with financing from
FED; it involved development of a total of about 3,200 ha, and was scheduled
for completion in December 1978. The proposed Project would represent the
final tranche of Phase I. The total estimated cost of the three tranches
undertaken to date is about FMG 9 billion (US$40.0 million); in addition, the
Government of Madagascar has financed social infrastructure and roads costing
about FMG 700 million (US$3.1 million) and CFDT has developed a cotton gin at
Tanandava costing FMG 120 million (US$0.5 million).
4.12      The development of the SAMANGOKY irrigation system has proved slower
and more costly than originally expected, and a number of problems - technical,
managerial, and sociological - have arisen since the program was initiated
in the early 1960's. The most dramatic problem was the severe flood damage
of 1969 and 1970 which necessitated costly flood protection works and changes
in basic designs of the irrigation network to minimize flood risk in subsequent
stages of development; the current system is designed to withstand damage from
the 100-year flood. Management problems have largely manifested themselves
in delays, but in general developments have been well managed, and the irri-
gation system is at present probably the most sophisticated and efficient in
Madagascar. Sociological problems have arisen as new migrants have sought
to obtain land and to integrate themselves with the indigeneous population
of the area. These problems also appear to have been resolved with time, and
while sociological tensions exist in the area they do not aDpear to impair
the effectiveness of SAMANGOKY's production system. FED has indicated that
it will not finance further developments for SAMANGOKY principally because
they believe that the scheme is now suitable for bank-type lending as opposed
to grant financing.
D. SAMANGOKY
4.13      SAMANGOKY (Societe pour l'Amenagement et la Mise en Valeur de la
Vallee du Bas-Mangoky) was established in 1961 to carry out on behalf of
the Government development schemes in the Lower Mangoky valley; and specific-
ally in the Mangoky development zone (para 4.02). SAMANGOKY is responsible
for: (i) all operations related to cultivation of the developed area together



- 20 -
with the associated farmers; (ii) all building construction; and (iii) force
account works, particularly land development. SAMANGOKY is a parastatal
company; total subscribed capital is currently about FMG 295 million (US$1.3
million) with the Government holding the great irajority of all shares (cur-
rently about 96%). SAMANGOKY's organization and management are described in
greater detail below in Chapter VII; present and proposed agricultural
production systems, including operation of the irrigation system, are de-
scribed in Chapter VIII.
V.  THE MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 322-MAG)
5.01      The Bank Group has previously financed two projects for irrigation
development in Madagascar. The first is the Lake Alaotra Irrigation Project
(Credit 214-MAG), approved by the Executive Directors in July 1970; this proj-
ect was designed to improve an irrigation and drainage network and increase
crop production (mostly rice) on 12,000 ha of peat soils in the central
plateau of Madagascar. It was completed relatively successfully in 1976
(Project Performance Audit Report dated June 14, 1977). The second project
is the Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project (Credit 322-MAG),
which has encountered serious problems during its implementation.
5.02      The M4orondava Project, approved by the Executive Directors in June
1972, was designed as the first phase of an ambitious and complex long-term
development plan for the Morondava region.  The project area is located between
the Morondava and Andranomena Rivers, in the central part of Madagascar's west
coast; it lies about 150 km north of the Mangoky River. The Project aimed
to rehabilitate and extend an existing irrigation system, to develop asso-
ciated services and to settle about 2,100 families in the area. It was
designed to develop about 9,300 ha (4,700 ha for smallholder rice, 2,700 ha
for a tobacco state farm and 1,900 ha for a cotton state farm). Village
development, roads, schools and health facilities were also included. A new
regional development institution, SODEMO (Societe pour le Developpement Eco-
nomique de la Region de Morondava), was established by the Government to
implement the Project. SODEMO's principal responsibilities included: (i)
organizatior and management of the tobacco and cotton state farms; (ii) land
consolidation and distribution of 4,700 ha of ricefields, and basic develop-
ment works including construction of tertiary and quaternary gravity irriga-
tion and drainage systems; and (iii) provision of agricultural support ser-
vices to farmers. The total cost of the Project was estimated at appraisal
at US$27.0 million. The foreign exchange component, estimated at US$15.3
million (57%), was to be financed by an IDA credit. The Project's economic
rate of return was estimated at about 16%; the principal benefits were ex-
pected to be rice, cotton, tobacco and groundnuts.
5.03      The Morondava Project has faced serious implementation problems since
its approval. By early 1974, it was apparent that there would be serious cost
overruns, as cost estimates had almost tripled; meanwhile, forecast agricul-
tural production had decreased substantially. Cost increases occurred princi-
pally because, following detailed engineering studies, important changes in
civil works design were required; further, international inflation in the
intervening period was much higher than expected. Decreased agricultural
production estimates were partly the result of changes in commodity prices of



- 21 -
tobacco and cotton and partly the result of changes in plans for production;
the Government decided not to irrigate cotton as planned because of the poor
additional yields obtained by irrigation, and not to go ahead with large-scale
development of tobacco, largely because tobacco supplies to tobacco processing
plants were ove'all adequate for the country's requirements. Accordingly, the
project was revised and reduced in scope, and the Credit Agreement was amended
in February 1976 with the following principal changes: (i) the area to be
developed was reduced to 3,800 ha, namely 2,500 ha for irrigated rice culti-
vation, and 1,300 ha for rainfed cotton, as opposed to the original total area
of 9,300 ha; and (ii) SODEMO assumed responsibility for on-farm works by force
account instead of under contract after international competitive bidding. The
total cost of the revised (and much reduced) project was estimated at US$30.7
million, as against US$27.0 million for the original Project.  The IDA Credit
was maintained at US$15.3 million, but IDA funds allocated to the civil works
increased from US$5 million to US$9.6 million. The Executive Directors
were informed of these developments by memorandum of December 24, 1975.
5.04      Following the revision of the Project, several additional difficulties
have arisen, and project completion will be far behind the planned schedule
(mid 1981 as opposed to December 1978). The major civil works and main canals
have been completed, and the irrigation system is functioning, but water is
under-utilized and in some case wasted. SODEMO has faced serious organiza-
tional, technical and financial problems and has sustained considerable
financial losses during the past four years. Its role and responsibilities
are ill-defined, and it is over-staffed, but without sufficient qualified
personnel. On-farm development works and construction have progressed very
slowly and at high cost. Agricultural production (especially cotton) and
extension are poorly organized. The cotton farm is operating at a loss;
further, problems regarding land tenure have arisen, with farmers claiming
land rights to the cotton farm. The proposed rice farm (not yet established)
also faces two major problems: the first is the active demand of farmers for
newly developed ricefields; the second is that SODEMO is unlikely to be able
to run a large rice farm on a profitable basis. The Government is cognizant
of these problems and is taking steps to resolve them. SODEMO's General
Manager was replaced in 1977, and a management committee, chaired by a member
of the Supreme Revolutionary Council, now directs SODEMO. SODEMO's staff have
worked, with the assistance of a consultant firm, to prepare accounts, budgets
and work programs for land development and construction.  The Ministries of
Rural Development and Finance are working with the SODEMO management committee
to clarify SODEMO's legal, management and financial situation, to define its
responsibilities more clearly, to agree on a realistic work program for the
next few years, and to work towards improving the quality of management. IDA
staff are following progress in carrying out these steps through frequent
supervision missions and other contracts with the Government.
5.05      Although the proposed Mangoky Project presents several similarities
with the Morondava Project, the Mangoky Project is unlikely to encounter the
same types of problems. Irrigation development in the Mangoky project area
should be relatively simple and inexpensive because it does not require addi-
tional major civil works. SAMANGOKY, the agency responsible for assistance
to farmers and land development, has worked in the area for more than 15 years
and has proved to be a sound, well-managed institution with well qualified
senior staff with extensive experience in the institution and in the Mangoky



- 22 -
region. The agricultural development program in the area has been in opera-
tion over five years and involves now almost 5,500 hectares. It has reportedly
been very satisfactory and well received by farmers as well as by local Govern-
ment authorities. Experience in settling the estimated 30,000 people already
installed, in distributing newly developed land and in establishing good
working relations with farmers has demonstrated the effectiveness of SAMANGOKY
and of its personnel. Finally, the development of new lands and the settle-
ment of migrant farmers in a new area should not pose serious sociological and
political problems such as SODEMO has faced in the populated ilorondava region
where most farmers have cultivated the land being developed for many years.
VI. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
6.01      The proposed Project would support the development of about 3,700
ha for production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by aboit1 3,200 families;
it would complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower
Mangoky Valley which has been under development since the early 1960's.
These investments are based on a long-term master plan for the region which
aims ultimately to bring about 100,000 ha of land into production (para 4.09).
The Project would be implemented over a five-year period and would comprise
the following components:
(a) Development of a primary and secondary irrigation network
and the primary, secondary, and tertiary drainage network for
3,700 hectares and road infrastructure;
(1) Land clearing and levelling and development of tertiary and
quaternary irrigation systems for about 3,300 ha, including
production of concrete canals for the tertiary and quaternary
irrigation network;
(c) Detailed design studies and supervision of elvil works;
(d)  Incretmental agricultural prod-ei:ton costs;
(e) Applied agricultural research for the Mangoky Scheme;
(f) Social infrastructure;
(g) Investigational research and trials on operating problems,
overseas study trips and training courses, monitoring and
evaluation, and studies to prepare future projects for the
Mangoky region; and
(h) Project preparation activities for agriculture and new
development projects.
6.02      The Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform would be
responsible for Project implementation and coordination. The Department



- 23 -
of Agricultural Engineering would oversee directly major civil works and
engineering studies. SAMANGOKY (para. 4.13) would be responsible for land
development, development of the tertiary and quaternary irrigation networks,
social infrastructure, agricultural research, and operation of the irrigation
system and services to farmers.
6.03      A basic irrigation system serving about 6,000 ha has been developed
to date and it functions well. Development of this system is described above
in paras 4.09 to 4.12. Proposed Project works would be designed to extend
this system and the new civil works and irrigated areas would be fully inte-
grated with the existing system in subsequent operation. The long-term master
plan for the region, of which this Project represents the completion of the
first phase of development, is described in para. 4.10 above.
B. Detailed Features
Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure and Roads
6.04      Under the Project, existing irrigation and drainage networks would
be extended in order to serve three new sectors - the north extension of
Namatoa (1,800 ha), the west extension of Ankazomena (1,500 ha), and the
Mangolovolo area (400 ha) (see map). The irrigation headworks, including
intake structures, settling basin, and supply canal, the primary canal, and
other works and structures between the Bevoay intake and the existing
Ankazomena sector would not require any modification, as they were designed to
provide sufficient water for approximately 10,000 ha of cultivated area. Under
the Project, the existing main canal (Pi) would be extended by a distance
of about 8 km up to Mangolovolo, and a gravity irrigation and drainage system
would be developed to serve the north and west extension sectors.
6.05      The west extension sector and Mangolovolo would be served by a flow
of 2,400 l/s from the end of the existing primary canal. The lined canal would
be extended by 3,890 meters to serve the west extension (1,680 1/s), and there-
after an unlined canal extending 3,995 meters would supply the existing rice
areas of Mangolovolo. The north extension would be served by four secondary
canals having capacities, respectively, of 1,600 l/s, 600 l/s, 600 1/s and
150 l/s. The west extension would be served by three secondary canals having
capacities of, respectively, 700 1/s, 1,160 l/s, and 300 1/s. No secondary
canals would be developed in the Mangolovolo sector, which is an existing rice
area served by a traditional irrigation system which should function adequ-
ately when served by the extension of the main canal. Primary and secondary
canals would be fully lined except in some areas of heavy soils (para 6.17).
Extensions to the irrigation system would total as follows:
Main Canal             North Extension   West Extension   Mangolovolo   Total
______________-------------m------------____________--
Lined                          -               3,890                         3,890
Earth                          -                                 3,995       3,995
Secondary Canals
Lined                        9,600             3,800                        13,400
Earth                        1,880             2,200                         4,080
Raised                       1,040             2,440                         3,480



- 24 -
6.06      Drainage.  The design of the drainage system for the proposed ex-
tensions is similar to that which has previously been developed in the area,
that is, drain capacity of 20 1/s/ha for sectors of less than 500 ha, and
drain capacity decreasing from 20 to 10 1/s/ha as the plots increase in size
fromn 500 to 3000 ha. Drain depth for quaternary drains has been established
at 1.5 meters and that for tertiary and secondary drains at 2.0 meters. Most
of the drainage waters of the previous SAMANGOKY developments were funnelled
into one outlet crossing the north zone of the proposed extension and emptying
into a permanent lake located near the dunes of Ambondro north of the proposed
development.  Also, a number of drainage ditches from the Ankazomena area
were excavated to the boundaries of the existing development and therefore
have no outlet. Before satisfactory drainage of the Ankazomena and Namato
regions (north extension) can be achieved, three secondary canals will
have to be extended as far as the lake mentioned above, and the lake itself
drained into the depression of the Kitombo to the north-east. This will also
ensure proper drainage of areas developed in previous stages. New drains
would be required in the eastern area. For the west extension, four secondary
drains have been planned. They will merge near the Ampampa River and empty
into it. A number of tertiary drains would also complete the drainage network.
An estimate of the extent of the proposed drainage network is as follows:
North Extension      West Extension       Total
------------(m)------------
Main drains                         3,130                 4,600           7,730
Secondary drains                   17,500                 6,500          24,000
Tertiary drains                    14,200                27,500          41,700
6.07      Road Works.  The road network would involve service roads 3 m wide,
traffic roads 6 m wide, and access roads of 8 m. Access roads would be all-
weather (gravelled); other roads would be profiled and graded, with appropri-
ate structures. Road works required are summarized below:
North Extension      West Extension       Total
------------(m)------------
Access roads                       20,000                23,900           43,900
Traffic roads                      22,800                25,900           48,700
Service roads                      10,100                18,000           28,100
Land Clearing and Levelling arnd Development of the Tertiary and Quaternary
Network
6.08      The proposed north and west extension areas are currently under
forest of medium density. These areas would be cleared mechanically (except
for baobabs which are cut by hand or poisoned with arsenic). Debris would
be windrowed and burned, and land would then be levelled in preparation for
development of the tertiary and quaternary irrigation and drainage networks.
The ethod employed for cotton would be the piano key method. Land clearing
and levelling techniques have been developed since the 1960's in the Mangoky
area and SAMANGOKY has considerable experience with these works. The qua-
ternary irrigation system would be developed as in existing areas, and would
be of reinforced concrete in most areas except where heavy soils permit an



- 25 -
earth network (para. 6.17). Concrete canal segments would be manufactured
at an existing factory established for the purpose located in the Project
area. This factory functions efficiently and the quality of canal segments
is satisfactory. The rate of land development by SAMANGOKY is currently about
600-700 ha a yerr. This rate would increase gradually to about 800 ha a year
by 1981. The principal investment items would be land clearing and levelling
equipment to supplement SAMANGOKY's existing material, materials for manufac-
ture of canal segments, and direct costs for land clearing and levelling and
developments of the irrigation and drainage network.
Detailed Design Studies and Supervision of Works
^.09      Detailed designs and cost estimates have been completed for the
irrigation and drainage systems, and on-farm development works, and the
available data are adequate for cost estimate purposes. Overall layout of
Project works and designation of irrigable areas have been completed on a
1:5,000 scale map with 0.5-meter contours. Detailed field surveys are re-
quired to establish elevations for land leveling and alignment of canals,
drains and roads within the area. These detailed designs and surveys, pre-
paration of tender documents, and supervision of works have been and will
continue to be carried out by consulting engineers engaged hy the Department
of Agricultural Engineering. Costs of consultants' services would represent
about 10% of construction costs, which is in line with previous experience in
Madagascar.
Incremental Agricultural Inputs
6.10      SAMANGOKY would cultivate the land developed in the extension areas
in association with farmers who would settle in the area. Rice would be grown
on about 80% of land and cotton on about 20% (paras. 8.01-05). Project invest-
ment cost estimates include the cost of incremental agricultural inputs
required for these developments (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and extension
services).
Applied Research in the Project Area
6.11      An applied research program, especially for rice, is urgently
needed. Rice research work, conducted by the CENRADERU research station at
Tanandava, ceased two years ago because of a serious lack of rice specialists
and of operating funds. For many years IR 8 has been the only variety pro-
duced in the SAMANGOKY scheme. Although it still gives a relatively high
yield (about 3.5 T of paddy per hectare as compared to 1.2 T per hectare
obtained from local varieties), it will tend to degenerate from year to year.
Furthermore, salinity problems in some parts of the area have made IR 8
cultivation unprofitable. Other problems to resolve include research and
recommendations on fertilizer and pesticide use, regarding amourits aild appli-
cation dates, on cultivation methods and on cropping patterns. Trial and
demonstration plots would be established by SAMANGOKY in several zones to
test research results and to provide feed-back information to researchers.
Research work w9l d ,-ti.l ,b 'i) Finding improved varieties of rice and assess-
ing their adaptability to different kinds of soils, including saline soils, in
various zones of the project area; and (ii) determining the best cultivation
techniques including sowing and transplanting dates; fertilizer, pesticide
and herbicide application methods; and rotation systems.  Research varieties



- 26 -
would be followed by the implementation of a seed multiplication program aid
farmer training program.
Social Infrastructure
6.12      SAMANGOKY would construct 5-6 new primary schools in addition to the
twelve schools already existing. Some of the existing schools would be ex-
tended. Construction and extensions would be sufficient to serve the needs
of about 3,200 additional migrant families who would settle in the area during
the Project period. The newly constructed schools would be very simple and
external financing of about US$7,000 per school will be needed in addition
to financing provided by SAMANGOKY and support from the fokonolonas. SAMANGOKY
would further extend a secondary school by one classroom and establish a new
technical training school to serve the needs of the company and of the sur-
rounding area for trained technicians.
Technical Services
6.13      Studies of Future Projects-Mangoky Area:  The Project would include
a program of studies to prepare future development projects for the Mangoky
delta. The studies would foeus on "Phase 2" of the long-term master plan
(paras. 4.09 to 4.10), that is, the development of about 20,000 additional ha
of land on the left bank of the Mangoky River. Proposed development areas fall
into two zones. The first is situated north-west of the Tsianihy sector; here,
flooding from the Mangoky river represents a serious risk and a major flood
protection dyke would be required as well as additional hydrological studies
of the river itself before development of an estimated 10,000 ha could be justi-
fied. Zone two (about 10,000 ha) involves the area west and south of existing
irrigated areas; this area is already protected against floods by the existing
dyke. The preparation studies would include detailed soil surveys, systematic
studies and trials to evaluate the economic aspects of earth versus concrete
irrigation networks in the area, and trials of sub-surface drainage in areas
of high salinity, in addition to preliminary and detailed engineering studies.
Costs for studies on future development projects in the Mangoky area are
estimated to be about US$1.8 million (excluding contingencies).
6.14      The Project would include technical services for applied investiga-
tional research on operating problems; such studies would include trials with
sub-surface drains in small areas to assess the impact on production, particu-
larly with regard to salinity problems, and would amount to about US$0.15 mil-
lion. Short training programs and study tours would be included for SAMANGOKY
staff and Ministry officials directly concerned with the Project. Monitoring
and evaluation studies to assess development of production trends and socio-
logical aspects of developments would be included. The costs for these pro-
grams, tours and studies would be about US$0.1 million.
6.15      Project Preparation Work.  The Project would include a program of
project preparation work which would have the dual objectives of preparing
proposals for projects for presentation to the Bank and other financing
sources, and of strengthening the project preparation capacity of the Ministry
of Rural Development. The need for such project preparation work is urgent,
as very few projects have been prepared during the recent period of turmoil
and transition in Madagascar. The Government has defined a list of proposed



- 27 -
project ideas, which include promotion of a variety of commercial/industrial
crops and integrated regional development schemes; these studies would be
conducted either directly by the Ministry of Rural Development's Programming
Department or by consultants engaged by the Ministry, who would have explicit
responsibility for training of Ministry staff.  The total cost of the studies
program is estimated at about US$1.5 million; consultants services are ex-
pected to cost between US$5,000 and 8,000 per man month, including all direct
costs.
Technical Features: The Irrigation System
6.16      The irrigation system in the extension areas would operate in the
same manner as in existing developments.  The system is basically a classic
gravity irrigation network supplied by a run of the river intake. Irrigation
for cotton is by the long furrow method and for rice by submersion. Water
needs are regulated from the source (upstream) down. At the inlet of the sec-
ondary and tertiary canals, float operated inlet gates maintain a controlled
inflow into the canals. This inflow can be equivalent to either the nominal
capacity of the canal, or to the sum of the flow of the inlets located down-
stream. Emergency siphons or spillways are used for the purpose cf dumping
the unused water into the drainage system. The irrigation network within each
sector would be subdivided into sectors of about 17 hectares for rice and 14.2
hectares for cotton, served by the quaternary network. The optimum length of
subsectors is approximately4l,200 m with a minimum of 700 m and a maximum of
1,500; size of subsectors would thus be between 7 and 22.5 hectares. The
subsectors would be subdivided into parcels of about one hectare; they would
receive throughout the season a constant flow corresponding to the nominal
discharge of the quaternary irrigation outlets. Within the subsector, parcels
would be irrigated, by portable plastic siphons with a head of 0.30 m from
raised quaternary canals or, in some rice areas, from earth quaternary canals.
6.17      SAMANGOKY has previously utilized concrete lined canals or raised
prefabricated concrete canals for almost the entire irrigation system, and
plans to continue this practice in most locations in the proposed extensions
to the system. Development costs for concrete canals are significantly higher
than earth canals - the initial investment cost for raised concrete canals
for example is about three times that of earth canals. The total cost (1978
prices) for civil works, including land development for this Project is about
US$4,000 per ha. However, SAMANGOKY experience indicates that use of concrete
canals is justified because of reduced maintenance costs and easier mainte-
nance, reduced loss of water by seepage, and increased flow due to lower
friction, and reduced erosion. Additional advantages of concrete canals are
less damage to canals from cattle which move freely in irrigation areas, and
a reduction in the incidence of bilharzia in the development areas. SOGREAH/
SOMEAH conducted a study to compare the economic costs of earth versus con-
crete canals and concluded that, in the long term, taking into account greater
land and water use efficiency and comparative maintenance costs, the cost dif-
ferential between the two types of system were relatively insignificant. How-
ever, this matter should be carefully reviewed in preparing future projects
for the region, in order to determine whether lower cost developments might
be feasible and appropriate (para 7.15).



- 28 -
Water Requirements, Availability, and Quality
6.18      Water supply for the three extension sectors would be obtained from
the existing primary canal system, which conveyE water from a run of the river
intake on the Mangoky River at Bevoay. Water supplied through this system
should be adequate for the extended system taking into consideration proposed
cropping pa terns. Peak water demand for the entire irrigated area would not
exceed 10 m 3/s, which is far less than the minimum stream flow of the Mlngoky
(about 50 m /s) and the capacity of the PI canal from Tanandava (14.1 m /s),
and which represents roughly the existing capacity of the supply canal in its
present form. Various segments of the existing system have been planned to
accommodate the proposed extensions. Water samples from the main river flow
and the main irrigation canal Pi were analyzed once each month during the
season 1971-72. The results of these tests indicate that the water can be
classified "suited without any risks for irrigation." In 17 years of data
there was a range of 425 mm to 962 mm of rainfall, most of it falling between
November and March, with a water deficit in the soil between February and
November,  Cyclonic rainfall can drop 100 mm of water in 24 hours (150 mm
on 12-12-71).
Salinity
6.19      Topography in the Mangoky delta is such that rainfall runoff
collects in depressions, and there is a relatively rapid evolution toward
salinity as the water table is relatively high in those depressions a good
part of the year.  In some small parts of areas already developed by SAMANGOKY,
salinity has posed problems, it is expected that a similar situation could
occur in very limited parts of new extension areas. Salinity problems, where
they occur, may be described as follows:  in flat areas where salinity
was not a problem before cultivation, irrigation with often a surplus of water
has created a high water table in areas of poor internal drainage. Salinity
problems are amplified from year to year and have been reflected by decreasing
yields of cotton, particularly in clay soils where capillary action is more
intensive and salts are brought to the surface during the evapo-transpiration
process. Soil samples taken on the surface in one area have yielded salinity
radings of 4 to 8 mmhos. Based on Reeve's formula, it would take some 5,200
m /ha to leach such soils, theoretically. Only actual leaching, however, will
give usable values.  If we add to this the quantity3of water normally applied
for annual irrigation of 5otton (10,000 to 14,000 m /ha at 50% irrigation effi-
ciency = 5,000 to 7,000 m /ha net), leaching will only give good results if
drainage is adequate with a water table maintained below 1 m. Water supply for
leaching should be plentiful during the following months: January, February,
August, September, October and November. It is, however, preferable to effect
leaching during the dry months of September, October and November, at which time
drainage of excess water is easier since there is no danger of the water level
in the Mangoky being higher than the drains as is often the case during the
rainy season. It is also the time of the year when the cotton fields are bare
and there is no danger of crop damage due to excess water in the root zone.
6.20      SAMANGOKY has agreed to take steps to improve irrigation management
with a view to reducing salinity problems in existing irrigated areas. Good



- 29 -
irrigation and soil management practices on actual or potential saline or
alkaline soils in the SAMANGOKY region involve the following: (i) leaching
accumulations of mixed soluble salts and potential alkali out of the root zone
by the application of excess irrigation water; (ii) providing adequate drain-
age facilities for the movement of this excess salt-laden water deep into the
subsoil and then away from the area; (iii) irrigating occasionally with ex-
cessive amounts of irrigation water to prevent subsequent salt accumulation
in the soil profile; and (iv) keeping the groundwater level sufficiently low
between irrigations by installing and observing piezometers in suspect areas
so that there will be no significant upward movement of salty groundwater
by capillary conductivity. Hydraulic conductivity measurements would be car-
ried out systematically on all soils in future studies. The implementation
oDf these measures should reduce incidence of salinity problems in the SAMANGOKY
scheme, and salinity problems are not expected to represent an important
impediment to agricultural production in the future.
Soil Surveys
6.21      A soil map on the scale 1:10,000 prepared by ORSTOM covers the west
extension subsector and the southern part of the north extension. A recently
completed study by FOFIFA covers the remaining parts of the project area. In
these areas, four soil types have been distinguished ranging from sandy loams
to clay soils. On the basis of these soil surveys, maps of optimum land use
have been prepared; these indicate that about 18% of soils are suitable for
cotton, while about 82%, because soils are relatively saline and land is
low-lying, are more suited for rice cultivation.
Flood Protection
6.22      A flood protection dyke about 2 meters high protects the existing
and proposed SAMANGOKY development areas. This dyke was raised and extended
in 1970 and 1971 following serious floods in 1969 and 1970. The flood pro-
tection works are now designed to protect 3all irrigation developments against
the 100-year flood, estimated at 40,000 m /second (para 4.03). The 1970-71
works involved construction of three spurs, raising the protection dyke, and
extending the dyke downstream. The dyke was lined with rock over plastic and
in the most vulnerable areas has been reinforced with rock and concrete to a
depth of up to one meter.
C.  Project Costs
6.23      Total Project costs are estimated at FMG 6.63 million (US$29.4
million), of which about US$18.0 million or 61% represent foreign exchange
costs. Details are summarized in the following table.



- 30 -
Foreign
Exchange         Cost of
as % of      Component as %
Total Costs   of Total Costs
--FMG million--    ----US$'000----   (Excluding                    (Excluding
Project Component                   Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total Contingencies) Contingercies)
(a) Major Civil
Works
Extension of
main canal                           51    119       170    227    529    756           70                4
Secondary Irrigation System          195    455       650    867  2,022  2,889           70               13
Drainage System                       81    189       270    360    840  1,200           70                6
Roads                                 16      39       55      71    173    244          70                1
Subtotal                       343    802   1,145  1,525  3,564  5,089             70               24
(b) Land Development
Land clearing and levelling          305    784   1,090  1,360  3,484  4,844             72               23
Tertiary Irrigation Systems           57    108       165    253    480    733           66                3
Quaternary irrigation system         104    201       305    462    893  1,356           66                6
Production of concrete canals    399         171      570  1,773    760  2,533           30               12
Subtotal                       866  1,264   2,130  3,848  5,617  9,466             59               44
(c) Design studies & supervision  63          63      126    280    280    560           50                3
(d) Incremental agricultural
production costs                283    331       614  1,255  1,473  2,728            54              13
(e) Applied agriculture research   2           1        3       9       4      13        31                0
(f) Social infrastructure             17       8       25      78      33    111         30                1
(g) Technical Services
Project Prep. (Mangoky)          160    240      400    711  1,067  1,778            60                8
Applied Investigation             14      20       34      62     89    151          59                1
Training                        110       13      23      44      58    102          57               0
Project Prep. (MDR)             120    180       300    533    800  1,333           60                6
Subtotal                       304    453       757  1,350  2,014  3,364           60               15
Total                        1,878  2,922   4,800  8,345 12,985 21,330             61              100
Contingency Allowances
Physical                        267    417       684  1,185  1,854  3,039
Price                           445    696   1,141  1,978  3,094  5,072
Total Contingencies                  712  1,113   1,825  3,163  4,948  8,111
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                2590  4.035   6,625 11,508 17,933 29,441



- 31 -
Project costs were estimated at prices as of December, 1978. Physical
contingency allowances of 15% were applied to major civil works, 20% to land
development and 10% to all other items to reflect general uncertainty on costs
of Project investments. Price contingencies were applied following Bank/IDA
guidelines on a cumulative basis at the rate of 8.7% for 1979 and 8.4% for
1980-83; these reflect a weighted average of estimates of price increases for
foreign and local costs (Table 1). Taxes and duties on goods included in
Project investments are estimated at about FMG 675 million (US$ 3.0 million),
which represents import taxes and duties on equipment and materials and taxes
on fuel and other operating costs. The phasing of investments and details of
Project costs are summarized in Table 1.
D. Financing
6.24      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
FMG            US$             %
(million)      (million)
Government of Madagascar                  1,667           7.4             25
SAMAN&OKY/Farmers                           570           2.5              9
Cotton Organization/Farmers                 225           1.0              3
IFAD                                      1,463           6.5             22
IDA                                       2,700          12.0             41
Total Project Costs                    6,625           29.4            100
6.25      The proposed IDA Credit of US$12.0 million would be to the Govern-
ment of Madagascar, on standard IDA terms.  The Credit would finance about 41%
of total Project cost, including taxes, including 64% of foreign exchange
costs and 5% of local expenditures. The IDA Credit would represent about
46% of Project costs excluding taxes. IFAD has agreed to provide a loan of
Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 5.0 million US$6.5 million equivalent-to the
Government for the Project; the terms of this loan would be similar to those
of the IDA Credit, and it would finance about 22% of total Project costs,
equivalent to 36% of foreign expenditures and 3% of local expenditures. The
IFAD loan would finance land clearing and leveling costs, applied agricultural
reseach and investigational work, and Project preparation for projects for
rice, oilseed, and livestock production. Signature of the IFAD loan would be
a condition of credit effectiveness. SAMANGOKY would finance from its revenues
and retained earnings working capital for incremental rice production and the
development of social infrastructure; the new cotton company (para 3.09)
would, as CFDT has in the past, finance working capital requirements for
incremental cotton production. Farmers would participate in the financing of
Project investment through their labor input. The Government would finance
about 25% of total Project costs including taxes, and 18% of Project costs net
of taxes. The Project financing plan is summarized in Table 2.
6.26      Funds for major civil works (primary and secondary irrigation and
drainage networks, tertiary drainage network, and roads) and for engineering



- 32 -
designs and supervision would be passed on by the Government to the Ministry
of Rural Development, and to its Agricultural Engineering Department. Funds
for on-farm developnents, for installation of tertiary and quaternary irriga-
tion systems (including manufacture of canal segnents), and for the quaternary
drainage network would be chaninelled through the Ministry of Rural Development
to SAMANGOKY. Funds for applied agricultural research would be passed on
through the MDRRA to SKMANGOKY. Funds for applied investigational work,
studies, training, and future Project preparation would be passed on to the
Ministry of Rural Development. SAMANGOKY's financial situation and capacity
to service debt are in large measure contingent on future arrangements for
cost recovery; until final agreement is reached on a new formula for cost
recovery it is assumed that land development costs will be financed by the
Government as a grant to S.MMANGOKY (para. 9.03). Retroactive financing of
about US$200,000 for detailed design studies, soil surveys, and other initial
expenses from September 1, 1978 is recommended.
E, Procurement
6.27      Contracts for major civil works would be awarded following inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
These works would comprise extensions to the primary and secondary irrigation
and drainage networks and the tertiary drainage system and road works; total
value is estimated at about US$7.5 million (including contingencies). Similar
works have been carried out in the Mangoky irrigation scheme in the past by
international civil works contractors in a satisfactory manner. On-farm
developments, installation of the tertiary and quaternary irrigation network,
and manufacture of canal segments would be carried out by SAMANGOKY, on the
basis of a contract which would be signed with the Government covering these
works. This contract should be submitted to the Bank/IDA for prior approval;
signature of the contract would be a condition, of credit effectiveness.
It would include appropriate provisions for, inter alia, Government inspection
of progress of works, insurance of equipment, and Government support of cost
overruns should these arise. The estimated total costs of these works is
about US$14.0 million (including contingencies). SAI4ANGOKY has considerable
experience with such works and has executed successfully a similar contract
for land development financed by the FED.  SAMANGOKY already owns land clear-
ing and levelling equipment which would be utilized for proposed development
works; a factory for manufacture of canal segments exists and requires no
significant extensions or equipment renewals to carry out proposed works. The
on-farm development works would not be subject to international bidding
because previous experience with such works in the Mangoky and Morondava
regions indicate that on farm works are unlikely to attract international bids
at reasonable cost. SAMANGOKY has carried out such works in the past in a
satisfactory manner, at unit costs which are significantly below tentative
quotations of major civil works contractors. SAMANGOKY has performed satis-
factorily as a contractor to the Government in the past; proposed works
involved essentially a continuation of previous land development activities
with a modest and gradual expansion in the volume of works. Assurances as to
proposed procurement arrangements were obtained during negotiations.



- 33 -
F. Disbursement
6.28      Funds from the Credit account would be disbursed over five years on
the following basis:
US$ million
(a)  80% of total expenditures for major civil works            4.4
(b) 80% of total expenditures for manufacture of
canal segments and installation of the tertiary
and quarternary irrigation network                         4.4
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local ex-
penditures for engineering studies and supervision         0.4
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local
expenditures for training, monitoring, and
evaluation studies, and project preparation work.          1.3
(e)  An unallocated amount representing a part of price
contingencies on the above categories and trans-
ferable to them as appropriate                             1.5
Total IDA Credit                                          12.0
Disbursements against all categories would be fully documented except for
expenditures related to civil works carried out by SAMANGOKY which would
be made against a statement of expenditures, the documentation for which
is not submitted for review, but is retained by the Borrower and available
for inspection during the course of project supervision missions. This
statement of expenditures would be certified by consultants employed under
terms approved by IDA and verified by the Ministry of Finance. An estimated
schedule of disbursements is given in Table 3.
G. Accounts and Audit
6.29      The Ministry of Rural Development would maintain records and accounts
adequate to explain all Project activities which would be the direct responsi-
bility of the Ministry. These accounts would form part of the Ministry's
overall accounts and would be controlled and reviewed following normal Gov-
ernment financial control procedures - that is, extensive predisbursement
control of all expenditures by the Ministry financial officer, the Govern-
ment financial controller and the Ministry of Finance budget division, fol-
lowed by periodic verification of the accuracy of accounts by the "Cours des
comptes" (General Auditing Council). The Ministry would submit to the Bank/
IDA at least once year a report summarizing the financial situation of all
Project activities and a description of control procedures; this report would
be verified by the Ministry of Finance. These procedures should be satisfac-
tory to ensure adequate control of expenditures. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.



- 34 -
6.30      SAMANGOKY's current accounting systems and financial statements are
satisfactory. Accounting is centralized in the Tananarive office: financial
management was recently computerized and financial statements are produced
on a monthly basis; these are based on management information systems which
permit production of analytical accounts and cost accounting. Annual finan-
cial statements are issued, normally about four to six months after the close
of the fiscal year. These are approved by the Board of Drectors, which
includes a professional auditor (Commissaire aux comptes) from the Ministry
of Finance. An independent auditor is then engaged to verify accounts, and
his report is submitted for final approval to the "Cour des comptes," which
inspects the company periodically (normally once every two to three years).
These procedures are appropriate to ensure proper financial control. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that SAMANGOKY would maintain accounts
adequate to explain Project activities, and would ensure that these are
audited every year by auditors acceptable to IDA; because the Government is
currently considering new general financial control procedures in conjunction
with the introduction of socialist enterprises, any departure from past
procedures outlined above should have prior IDA approval. Audited financial
statements would be submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the
closing of the fiscal year.
H. Environmental Impact
6.31      The SAMANGOKY development schemes have already had a significant
impact on the overall environment of the Mangoky region; this would be con-
tinued and accentuated by activities under the proposed Project. The natural
vegetation of the. region, medium to dense forest dominated by Baobabs is
replaced by intensive irrigation schemes supporting a large population.
Apart from the fundamental change in the natural environment and in land use,
however, it is not expected that Project developments would have an adverse
environmental impact; wildlife in the region is limited and there are no
known unique or rare species indigenous to the area. Increased use of
pesticides is not expected to have lasting or adverse effects on the sur-
rounding region and those which would be utilized have been employed in
the area for many years. Adequate minimum flow of the Mangoky river for
downstream uses would be assured.
6.32      Schistosomiasis is a serious health problem in the SAMANGOKY area,
and its incidence has increased with development of the irrigation system;
it currently affects an estimated 5-10% of the population. Spread of the
disease is limited by the use of concrete for the entire irrigation system,
but the disease is nevertheless communicated through drains and marshes.
SAMANGOKY and Ministry of Health officers currently work to control the
disease through education campaigns and treatment of infected areas, as well
as treatment of infected persons. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that the Government would continue to support appropriate schistosomia-
sis control programs at least at current levels for the Mangoky developments.



- 35 -
VII. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management
7.01      The Agricultural Engineering Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development would have overall responsibility for carrying out the Project.
It would supervise execution of civil works by contractors and by SAMANGOKY
and would coordinate all Project activities. An exception would be project
preparation activities by the Ministry of Rural Development, for which the
Secretary General would be responsible. SAMANGOKY would execute farm develop-
ment works and provide agricultural and extension services to farmers, and
carry out an applied research program. The Ministry of Health would assist
SAMANGOKY in the development of hospitals and dispensaries and in the schis-
tosomiasis control program, and the Ministry of Education would provide
assistance in design of schools and would provide teachers. The Agricultural
Engineering Department has sufficient qualified s.aff to carry out these re-
sponsibilities; the Department would engage consultants to prepare detailed
engineering designs and working drawings and to supervise the progress of works.
7.02      The Agricultural Engineering Department would be responsible for
preparation of an annual report on Project progress which would include
a proposed work program for the ensuing year. This would be reviewed with
IDA during Project supervision missions. The annual review would be the
primary vehicle for evaluating Project progress, identifying problems in
implementation, ensuring that coordination among agencies responsible for
implementation is adequate, and for adapting subsequent implementation
programs as a result of experience. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Government would submit this annual report and program to IDA
for review not later than October 1 of each year.
Major Civil Works
7.03      The Agricultural Engineering Department has in the past assumed
primary responsibility for execution of virtually all major civil works proj-
ects in rural areas. The Department thus has experience in managing prepara-
tion and review of tender documents, procurement and contracting procedures,
supervision of on-going works by contractors, reporting to external financing
agencies, and administration of funds. Several international contracting
firms have branches in Madagascar. Major civil works under two previous
IDA-financed irrigation projects and in the Mangoky irrigation scheme have
been satisfactorily carried out by contractors under the supervision of the
Department.  The Department would assume direct responsibility for execution
of major civil works under the proposed Project, and thus for selection of
consulting engineers to prepare detailed designs and tender documents and
supervise works, review of tender documents and bidding for major civil works,
and control of works during implementation. Terms of reference for consult-
ing engineers have been reviewed and are satisfactory. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would select consultants for
engineering design and supervision following procedures satisfactory to
IDA, and that IDA would approve proposed contracts.



- 36 -
B. SAMANGOKY
7.04      SAMANGOKY (para. 4.13) has had primary responsibility for all
developments in the Mangoky region since its establishment in 1961, with the
exception of major civil works for which the Ministry of Rural Development
has assumed direct responsibility (7.03). SAMANGOKY is a mixed economy
company, with the great majority of shares (currently about 96%) held by the
Goverrment; other shareholders include the BTM and CFDT. The company's
statutes allow considerable flexibility of administration and operations.
SAMANGOKY's organization and responsibilities reflect its role as a develop-
ment agency for an area far removed from population centers and from other
Government services; it thus enjoys considerable autonomy and a wide range of
responsibilities, despite its basic role as a Government development agency.
SAMANGOKY's basic legal and organizational framework and its role in the
Mangoky development scheme would remain fundamentally unchanged during execu-
tion of the proposed Project; SAMANGOKY's responsibilities would thus be
similar to those it has fulfilled during implementation of previous and
on-going FED-financed development schemes. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would consult with IDA prior to approving any
changes in SAMANGOKY's current constitution, legal statutes and operating
regulations, and organization which could have a material impact on Project
implementation. SAMANGOKY operates in a designated development zone of the
Lower Mangoky Valley (para. 4.02) and is assured through legislation in force
with appropriate authority for land development activities in the area.
Organization and Management
7.05      SAMANGOKY is governed by a Board of Directors; the Board includes
six Government representatives (including the Director of Agricultural
Engineering who is currently chairman of the Board), a representative of
the Rural Development Bank (BTM), and three representatives of other share-
holders. The Board appoints a general manager; his appointment must be
approved by the Ministry of Rural Development. The Board governs all opera-
tional policy matters and approves annual budgets and programs, financial
statements and borrowings of the company; it also reviews all matters affect-
ing relationships between SAMANGOKY and associated farmers, including charges
for services. The Board has met regularly in the past and has played an
active role in SAMANGOKY's affairs. The board has delegated extensive re-
sponsibilities for day-to-day operations to the general manager.
7.06      SAMANGOKY is organized into three major departments; in addition
there is a separate liaison office in Antananarivo and central administrative
services. The Agricultural Services Department includes extension services
for irrigated areas, direct farming activities and staff for maintenance of
irrigation network. The Works Department includes divisions responsible
for land development, buildings, and operation of the canal factory. The
Administrative Department includes financial and administrative services
and the central workshop. SAMANGOKY employed about 920 permanent staff in
April 1978. Of these, about 78 were in central services, 240 in the Agricul-
ture Department, 79 in the Workshop, and 536 in the Works Department; about



- 37 -
95 staff were professional employees, 99 skilled workers, 240 experienced
but unskilled workers, and 316 unskilled laborers. SAMANGOKY employment
conditions and salary scales are governed by Madagascar's basic labor law;
salaries for senior staff are somewhat higher than Government salaries, while
lower level salaries are somewhat lower.
7.07      SAMANGOKY has developed gradually since its establishment in 1961,
and is now a well-managed and experienced institution with effective manage-
ment procedures. SAMANGOKY benefitted from significant technical assistance
during the development period, but has been managed entirely by Malagasy
staff since 1976. Most senior staff, including the general manager, have
worked in the institution for several years and have suitable qualifications
z-ad experience.  Annual operations are based on a budget and work program
which must be approved by the Board of Directors. Accounting and management
information systems are designed to permit ready comparisons of targets and
achievements. Performance in recent years has been entirely satisfactory. No
major changes in staffing or management procedures are expected, as SAMANGOKY
is well organized and adapted to implement the Project as planned. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would consult with IDA
prior to appointing a new director of the Works Department of SAMANGOKY.
Assurances were also obtained that SAMANGOKY would submit through the Ministry
of Rural Development, its annual work program and budget to IDA for review by
October 1 of each year (para 7.02).
Land Development
7.08      SAMANGOKY's Works Department is responsible for all land development
activities. Within the organization, the department enjoys considerable
autonomy. Analytic accounting procedures introduced recently make possible
accurate analysis of costs of land development works including services
provided by other departments (for example, the Central Workshop). Depart-
ment heads are responsible for preparation of work programs and budgets and
are accountable for their implementation. This organization permits the
Department to function effectively as an internal contractor, and it enjoys
sufficient flexibility to resolve operating problems without recourse to
cumbersome administrative procedures.  Department staff are subdivided into
operating brigades responsible for various phases of works (land clearing,
windrowing, levelling, etc.), as well as the Canal Factory which operates
separately. A system of bonuses has been established to encourage per-
formance. Land development works previously undertaken have been well imple-
mented, staff is experienced and well trained, and equipment is well main-
tained. The Works Department would carry out land development works under
the proposed Project in much the same manner as it has in the past; the
rate of land developments would be marginally greater than in the past and
therefore some expansion of staff and purchase of additional equipment would
be required. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Works
Department would continue to operate with reasonable autonomy within SAMANGOKY's
organization, and that management information systems adequate to identify
accurately costs of land development works would be followed.
Land Rights and Allocation of Irrigated Plots
7.09      Virtually all land developed to date by SAMANGOKY was utilized
exclusively for pasture in the past, with very small amounts used for shifting



- 38 -
cultivation in the forest. Since only a few recognized titles, for a total of
less than 80 ha, were held in the 10,000 ha phase 1 zone (para. 4.09), very
little formal expropriation has been necessary. Fokonolona rights to utilize
land for pasture were informal, and while SAMANGOKY has cooperated with
local communities in the selection of land for development, compensation to
owners with traditional land rights has been limited to payment for actual
structures (houses) and crops in areas designed for development. SAMANGOKY
has also compensated local communities when graves or sacred places are
disturbed; the traditional payment for a sacred tree, for example, is one
steer, a bottle of rum, and a shroud. Appropriate compensation schedules and
individual claims are currently established with the 12 fokantany councils and
the firaissam which represent the population of the area. In law, the Govern-
ment and SAMANGOKY as its designated agent have broad rights to land within
the Mangoky area; SAMANGOKY had nevertheless proceeded cautiously with regard
to traditional land rights in the past, and its policies in this regard have
been appropriate and effective. In the areas to be developed under the pro-
posed Project, SAMANGOKY would pursue the same assessment and compensation
policies that it has in the past.
7.10      The Government retains full ownership rights to all land developed
in the SAMANGOKY irrigation schemes. Farmers are allocated plots within the
area on the basis of annually renewable contracts; while farmers do in prac-
tice eventually obtain long-term rights to this land, including the right to
pass on rights to heirs, the Governnent nevertheless retains ownership and
farmers can be expelled at any time. Plots are allocated to farmers annually.
SAMANGOKY determines appropriate crops for different areas, and farmers
apply for rice or cotton fields respectively. Size of plots is determined by
SAMANGOKY which also establishes norms of appropriate area to be cultivated
by families of varying sizes and experience. Actual selection of farmers
and allocation of plots is currently the responsibility of the firaissam
of Ambahikily, which includes representatives of all villages (fokonolonas)
in the area, and which has established a committee for this purpose.
SAMANGOKY formerly allocated plots directly, but with the increasing devolu-
tion of responsibility for local affairs to the fokonolona institutions,
it was decided that the firaissam was better suited to assume this responsi-
bility. Farmers thus apply to the fokantany of their zone for plots; the
committee, which includes representatives of all fokantanys, makes allocation
decisions on an annual basis. When SAMANGOKY ceased its allocation function
in 1977, over 1,000 requests for land were outstanding; no statistics on
requests are available now as the system is decentralized, but it appears that
demand for plots in the scheme is steadily increasing with the arrival of new
migrants in the area.
Agricultural Production
7.11      Land in the SA24ANGOKY irrigation scheme is farmed through a partner-
ship arrangement between SAMANGOKY and associated farmers; effectively,
agricultural tasks are shared, and benefits are divided between the company
and farmers. The production system is described in greater detail below
(para. 8.03); in summary, SAMANGOKY operates the irrigation system to the
tertiary canal level, establishes the agricultural calendar and farming
practices, provides inputs and machinery services, and markets production.
Farmers provide all labor for production, including irrigating crops and



- 39 -
maintaining the quaternary canals, transplanting rice, weeding, and harvest.
In addition, SAMANGOKY services farm directly forage production as a rotation
in cotton areas. SAMANGOKY organizes services through an intensive extension/
agricultural service; there is at present one extension agent per 100 farmers.
SAMANGOKY's agricultural services have been well organized in the past, and
the result of the partnership system has been an effective discipline in
agricultural practices; farmers can be and sometimes are expelled when
SAMANGOKY recommendations are not respected. The partnership system would be
continued in the future, and SAMANGOKY's agricultural department would be
expanded as the area under cultivation increases; it is expected that SAMANGOKY
would employ 2 additional sector chiefs, 5 sub-sector chiefs, 36 additional
extension workers, and four additional rural development advisers (animateurs),
in addition to skilled workers for machinery services and maintenance of the
irrigation system. In the future, SAMANGOKY's agricultural agents would
devote increased attention to farmer training as part of their extension
effort. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would
consult with IDA prior to introducing any significant changes in the current
agricultural production system and in the organization of agricultural serv-
ices, including any change affecting land tenure rights, sharing of benefits
between farmers and SAMANGOKY, and provision of services to farmers. Assur-
ances were also obtained that the Government would maintain arrangements
satisfactory to IDA for the financing and marketing of cotton in the Mangoky
region.
Marketing
7.12      SAMANGOKY purchases all cotton production from farmers and transports
seed cotton to the CFDT cotton gin, located within the irrigation scheme.
SAMANGOKY markets only the rice production which represents payment for
SAMANGOKY services (currently 1 ton per crop per hectare); additional rice
may be consumed by farmers, sold to SAMANGOKY, or sold on the private market.
In addition to marketing within the irrigation scheme, SAMANGOKY has also
served as the Government's agent for rice marketing in the fivondronan of
Morombe (para. 3.02); in 1977, an estimated 700 tons of rice was purchased
from fokonolonas in the area, milled, and delivered to SINPA stores in Morombe
by SAMANGOKY. SAMANGOKY's marketing role outside the irrigation scheme has
been limited and, although the operation has to date entailed some very
limited financial losses because SAMANGOKY has not yet been fully reimbursed
for direct costs resulting from the price subsidy scheme (para 3.05), the
effect on SAMANGOKY's overall organization of services has been minimal.
Social Infrastructure
7.13      When development of the Mangoky scheme began, social and commercial
infrastructure was virtually non-existent in tne area; the Government and
SAMANGOKY have thus been obliged to develop all basic services and infra-
structure for the growing population of the zone. Initially, villages tended
to emerge in a rather haphazard fashion, wherever farmers chose to settle.
More recently, SAMANGOKY staff in detailed planning of new land developments
have designated suitable sites for village development and farmers have been
encouraged to settle there. At present, there are about 25 villages in the
SAMANGOKY area. Basic services to farmers in these villages remain limited;



- 40 -
SAMANGOKY normally digs a well with assistance from villagers; some road
works are also undertaken where the population requests assistance. The
Government and SXMANGOKY have constructed about 12 schools in the area;
initially school construction was financed by the Government directly, but
since 1971 SAMANGOKY has financed social infrastructure developments from
retained earnings, and has carried out works through its Works Department.
Dispensaries have also been developed in the area, and a secondary school
is under construction. The health program is carried out by Ministry of
Health personnel but its effectiveness has been limited by lack of funds and
personnel (para. 6.32). SAMANGOKY has in the past experimented with various
methods of assistance to farmers for housing. Initially, houses were con-
structed and rented to farmers, but costs of such construction are prohibitive
(over YMG 1 million per house). During the 1960's, farmers were provided with
materials fcr construction, but interest in the program was limited. Efforts
have also been made to design appropriate plans for houses, to be constructed
by farmers.  The basic problem, however, is lack of long-term credit to farm-
ers for housing construction. The BTM is currently reviewing possibilities
for expanding credit for rural housing at a national level, and if such a
program were launched SAMANGOkY farmers should be eligible for assistance.
IJnder the Project, SMIANGOKY would continue to develop basic infrastructure
along the same lines as it has in the past, and would cooperate with the
Ministry of Health in developing appropriate health infrastructure and dis-
ease control programs in the area.
Applied Agricultural Research, Applied Investigational Work and Training
7.14       SAMANGOKY was directly responsible for applied research in the area
from 1961 to 1974, when CENRADERU (para. 2.10) assumed responsibility for
research activities at the Tanandava Station. Extensive research was under-
taken, beginning in 1952 on rice and some other crops, but with primary
emphasis on cotton. On-going research activities have been sharply curtailed
because CENRADERU lacks staff and funds. The principal research need is for
applied work on rice (para. 6.11). SAMANGOKY would assume direct responsibil-
ity for this program because it should be closely integrated with on-going
agricultural production activities and because applied research and trials
could be conducted by Agricultural Department staff at reasonable cost.
SAMANGOKY would also be responsible for applied investigational research on
operational problems, such as installation of sub-surface drains in small
areas; assurances were obtained during neogtiations that detailed proposals
for such studies would be submitted for prior IDA approval. Proposals for
training would also be submitted for prior IDA approval.
C. Project Preparation
Mangoky Region - Phase Il
7.15      The Agricultural Engineering Department would have principal
responsibility for studies of future development possibilities in the Mangoky
region. The studies should include basic studies required to determine
suitability of soils for cultivation of various crops and to determine costs
of irrigation systems and land development works; in this regard comparative



- 41 -
costs and benefits of concrete versus earth-lined canals should be specifi-
cally assessed (para 6.17).  In addition, studies should focus on development
needs of the region (Morombe and Manja fivondronan) and should explore pos-
sibilities for integrated development of infrastructure and services beyond
the irrigation system itself; for example, prospects for development of pois
du cap cultivation and of livestock should be explored. The studies should
also review sociological aspects of developments in the region and should
establish a general plan of settlement and development of social intra-
structure. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that terms of
reference for these studies wou'ld be submitted to IDA for approval.
Project Preparation Work
7.16      The Project would include a component aimed to assist the Ministry
of Rural Development with project preparation work; the Secretary General
would have principal responsibility for this program, and most studies would
be carried out by consultants working with the Programming Department of the
Ministry. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that detailed
proposals and terms of reference for studies would be submitted to IDA
for approval.
D. Project Implementation Schedule
7.17      The Project would be implemented over a five-year period.  A tenta-
tive Project implementation schedule is included as Table 4, and was discussed
during negotiations.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
7.18      The Planning and Programming Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development would be responsible for monitoring of Project progress; the
Department would establish a simple monitoring plan to provide key indicators
of Project progress. Departrment staff would participate in the annual review
of Project progress. Since no systematic monitoring of development projects
is currently undertaken, the key objectives should be to define limited objec-
tives in advance and to emphasize simplicity in the design of monitoring sys-
tems. Proposals for Project monitoring were discussed during negotiations,
and assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Governnent would
submit detailed proposals on monitoring arrangements to IDA to review before
December 31, 1979. Routine reporting on Project progress would be the respon-
sibility of the Department of Agricultural Engineering, which should coordi-
nate with the Planning Department in establishment of reports. Assurances
were also obtained that the Government would report on a regular basis on
agricultural production and matters relating to it in the area of the Project.
7.19      The Government would prepare a completion report sumimarizing per-
formance under the Project and evaluating its successes and problems. This
would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the expected closing
date, and assurances on this subject were obtained during negotiations.



- 42 -
VIII. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Technical Features
8.01      The Project area is part of the Mangoky river delta, in a semi-arid
zone in the south and southwestern region of Madagascar. Reddish-brown sandy
soils and old and recent alluvial soils with annual sediments deposited by
the Mangoky river offer excellent potential for agricultural development.
Rainfall varies between 350 mm and 1,100 mm per year, and the annual average
for twenty years is 680 mm. There are two distinct seasons: a hot and rainy
season from December to March with a peak in December-January and a dry seasor
from April to November with mild weather from April to August.  Temperatures
average 240C, with minor seasonal variations from 21 0C to 280C.  Present
farming systems in the region consist of two types: (i) cultivation of cotton
and rice with irrigation in the SAMANGOKY development area by "associated
farmers" under the supervision and with technical and financial assistance of
SAMANGOKY; and (ii) cultivation of other crops by traditional farmers under
rainfed conditions and on baibohos (the Mangoky flood plain).
Current SAMANGOKY Agricultural Production
8.02      The irrigated area developed to date by SAMANGOKY totals about
5,500 ha, and it is expected that this will increase to about 6,000 ha
when extensions currently underway are completed in early 1979. This area
is currently cultivated about 80% with cotton (in rotation with Antaka)
and 20% with rice. The production system involves a partnership between
SAMANGOKY and about 5,000 farm families who cultivate holdings ranging in size
from 0.8 to 1.2 ha. Yields of both cotton and rice have been satisfactory,
with cotton averaging 2.8 tons per ha over the period 1970-77, and rice
approaching 3.5 tons of paddy per hectare and per crop, with two crops of rice
grown in virtually the entire rice area. Forage crop production has also been
adequate.
8.03      Methods of Production - Farmers who are allocated land developed
by SAMANGOKY (para 7.10) grow rice or cotton on separate fields on the basis
of an annual contract signed between SAMANGOKY and each farmer stipulating
the responsibilities and duties of both sides and the sharing of costs and
harvests. SAMANGOKY determines plot size and which crop will be grown in
each area. SAMANGOKY assures land preparation, supplies of seeds, fertil-
izers and water from irrigation canals, aerial insecticide treatments, ex-
tension and farmer training, and marketing of produce. SAMANGOKY operates
the entire irrigation network, including the headworks, and provides main-
tenance services. Operation and maintenance has been satisfactory in the
past. The associated farmers must carry out SAMANGOKY's technical recommen-
dations, and particularly respect sowing dates for cotton and transplanting
dates for rice, weedings, irrigation, fertilizing and harvesting. They must
also maintain the quaternary irrigation network. After harvest time, they
must deliver to SAMANGOKY one ton of paddy for each hectare of rice cultivated
(per crop) and must sell to SAMANGOKY all their seed cotton. SAMANGOKY then



- 43 -
pays the farmers the official prices of cotton, after deducting all costs due
to land preparation, input supplies, insecticide treatment and transport.
Traditional Farming Methods
8.04      Traditional farming in the Mangoky region represents the "before
Project" and "without Project" situation. Outside the SAMANGOKY scheme,
all farming in the region is by traditional farmers who use no modern tech-
niques and inputs. The farming pattern involves production of manioc and
maize, generally on a shifting, slash and burn production system in the
higher lying areas and in the forest, production of limited amounts of rice
in the valley bottoms of tributaries to the Mangoky, and cultivation of
butter beans (pois du cap) on the flood plains after the floods recede.
Extensive cattle rearing is also important in the traditional economy,
although very few cattle are marketed. Production is almost exclusively for
subsistence, with very small amounts marketed for cash; pois du cap provide
virtually the only source of cash income. The prospects for agricultural
development in the region apart from major irrigation schemes are very limited,
although pois du cap and livestock production could be improved through
effective extension services and improved inputs. Many farmers who farm land
in the SAMANGOKY scheme also produce some crops and livestock for subsistence;
in fact, many farmers from the south devote virtually all earnings to cattle
purchase, and build up significant herds over time. It is likely that tradi-
tional production will continue virtually unchanged until the Government or
SMAMANG0KY organize a specific program to assist farmers with farming outside
the irrigation schemes; this possibility would be reviewed as part of studies
of future development in the Mangoky region (para. 7.15). It is unlikely that
Project developments would result in any decrease in traditional production,
as labor available in the area is not fully employed, and many farmers in the
SAMANGOKY scheme are recent migrants to the area.
Project Developments
8.05      Under the Project, SAMANGOKY's irrigation system would be extended
to serve an additional 3,700 ha, which are composed of two extension areas
and one small area of existing rice fields. The two extension areas, total-
ling about 3,300 ha, are adjacent to existing developments; land is currently
under forest with no agricultural production except insignificant amounts of
maize cultivated with slash and burn techniques and extensive grazing for
cattle. This land would be brought into intensive cultivation, and would be
farmed by SAMANGOKY in partnership with farmers following the existing system
in force in the area. Soil surveys indicate that about 700 ha or 21% of
the new extensions would be suitable for cotton production; most of this
would be in the western extension. The pattern of rotation with antaka would
be the same as in the areas already cultivated (three years cotton and one
year antaka). The rest of the extension areas, about 2,600 ha, would be
cultivated with rice. SAMANGOKY would thus shift emphasis from cotton to rice
production under the land developments of the Project. Whereas the share of
rice fields in the areas developed so far is about 20%, it would be more than
40% of total developed area after completion of the Project. The third
Project area, 400 ha at Mangolovolo, is currently cultivated in rice by farmers
employing traditional methods; the irrigation system is a "fokonolona" system



- 44 -
developed by the local population and it functions poorly, largely because of
inadequate water supply. Under the Project, the main canal would be extended
to serve this area. It is expected that the Mangolovolo farmers would request
services from SAMANGOKY similar to those available to associated farmers
(improved seeds, fertilizers, and extension advice) and as a result would
increase rice yields from current levels of about 1.8 tons per hectare to 3.2
tons per hectare for two crops a year.
Farm Models
8.06      Three simple farm models have been considered representative of the
two extension areas to be newly developed: the first model represents a 1 ha
rice farm, the second a mixed farm with 1 ha of rice and 0.5 ha of cotton
and the third a mixed farm with 1 ha of cotton and 0.5 ha of rice. These
models are designed principally to demonstrate the most likely farm patterns,
assuming a farm size of 1-1.5 ha. On the basis of the varieties and the
cultivation system used, and past experience of SAMANGOKY, yields of rice
production in the extension areas are expected to reach the full development
level of 3.5 tons per crop for 2 crops per year after three years. It is
further assumed that from the first year on SAMANGOKY provides full services
to the farmer for which the farmer pays either with a quantity of rice or
through a deduction from the official cotton price. Beans and groundnuts
cultivation has not been included in the models because it is not common in
the perimeter, but associated farmers could grow them as off-season cash crops
after the harvest of cotton. Beans and groundnuts cultivation improves soil
fertility in nitrogen and brings additional income to farmers. Two farm
models have been developed for the Mangolovolo area. Since the average farm
size is 1 ha, the two models present 1 ha rice farms. The first model takes
into account the effect of additional irrigation water supply on rice produc-
tion; the second includes also other services of SAMANGOKY and assesses their
impact on rice production. Yields per ha would increase from 1.8 tons to 2.4
tons of paddy for 2 crops per year in the first model and from 1.8 tons to 6.4
tons of paddy in the second model over a three-year period. Yields at full
development with SAMANGOKY services are assumed to be lower than in the
extension areas because Mangolovolo farmers do not have the same experience.
Farm models are summarized in Table 5.
B. Producer Benefits
8.07      An estimated 2,750 farm families would receive plots of land within
the SAMANGOKY scheme under the proposed Project; these farmers would include
both traditional farmers from the Mangoky region and recent migrants from
other parts of Madagascar. Most have at present no fixed rights to land, and
it is assumed that they currently participate in subsistence cropping and
livestock activities or are employed within the SAMANGOKY scheme as hired
laborers. The average plot size of these farmers would be 1.0-1.5 ha, depend-
ing on past experience with agriculture and or the number of active members of
the family.  In addition, an estimated 400 families currently farming rice in
the Mangolovolo area (average plot, 1 ha) would benefit from improved irriga-
tion water supplies and SAMANGOKY services. The current subsistence income



- 45 -
of farm families is estimated at about FMG 50,000 per family, or about US$45
per capita. It is assumed that under the Project farmers with one hectare
of rice and 0.5 ha of cotton would achieve a net income of about FMG 232,000
(US$1,055) or about US$200 per capita; farmers with one hectare of cotton and
0.5 ha of rice would have incomes estimated at FMG 214,000 (US$973), while the
income of farmers in Mangolovolo would increase to about FMG 154,000 (US$700).
Farmers are likely to derive some additional income from subsistence agricul-
ture, notably from cattle and from pois du cap cultivation, but cash income
from these sources would be small in relation to income from the SAMANGOKY
scheme.
C. Production Estimates
8.08      About 2,600 hectares of rice and 700 hectares of cotton cultivated
on newly developed lands in the Northern and Western zones would produce
an estimated annual increment of 18,200 tons of paddy and 1,960 tons of
cotton. Increased paddy production from the Mangolovolo area is expected to
be 2,560 tons per year. Thus, total increased production in the Project area
is estimated at 20,040 tons of paddy (13,030 tons of rice) and 1,960 tons of
seed cotton per year.
IX. GOVERNMENT AND SAMANGOKY COSTS AND REVENUES
9.01      In the past, for the SAMANGOKY program capital investments in
development of the irrigation network and land development have not been
recovered directly from farmers or from SAMANGOKY.  By means of SAMANGOKY's
system of pricing of cotton and the charge for rice cultivation, farmers
have paid their full share of the cost of production, taking into account all
current charges of SAMANGOKY including costs of extension services, operation
and maintenance of the irrigation network, SAMANGOKY overheads and financial
charges, as well as direct production inputs. This system is supported
by the Government on the grounds that farmers in the SAMANGOKY scheme have
no ownership rights to land; the Government retains full title to the land
and to improvements. The Government therefore considers it appropriate that
long-term investments in development of the irrigation system should be sup-
ported by the Government. The position is complicated by the fact that the
Government has not yet elaborated a national policy on cost recovery for
irrigation developments and charges to farmers for services. In practice,
systems of land tenure and payment by farmers for inputs and services vary
widely from one system to another, with farmers expected to pay full develop-
ment costs in some areas while in others virtually all services are provided
free of charge.  Under the Lac Alaotra Project, financed by the Bank, farmers
were expected to pay the full costs of land development, but following poli-
tical agitation in the area, payment schedules were significantly reduced,
and it is unlikely that full cost recovery can be achieved; this issue is
being reviewed in conjunction with preparation of a new project for the Lac
Alaotra region. In Morondava also the Government has not yet determined
an appropriate system for recovering costs nor enunciated the principles



- 46 -
on which such systems would be based. Since SAMANGOKY's current system has
worked relatively effectively, IDA and the Government agree that the system
should be altered only after careful evaluation of the consequences for
SAMANGOKY and farmers. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the
Government would take steps to introduce gradually a new system of cost
recovery. SAMANGOKY and its associated farmers will begin to reimburse the
Government for part of the capital development costs incurred in development
of the irrigation system, in part because such a system should facilitate
SAMANGOKY's access to funds to finance future developments. The Government
has agreed to submit detailed proposals for recovery of investment costs from
farmers in the SAMANGOKY scheme to IDA for review not later than June 30,
1980. These proposals would be based on the assumption that farmers will
continue to be charged the full cost of operation and maintenance services,
and that SAMANGOKY will recover through increased charges, in progressive
steps over a reasonable period of time, capital investment costs in major
civil works and land development to the fullest extent possible, having due
regard to the farmers' ability to pay, the necessary incentives for their
participation in the SAMANGOKY scheme, the level of prices to producers, and
the need for public savings to finance other development activities. Assur-
ances were also obtained that the Borrower would consult with IDA on progress
in implementing this cost recovery scheme from time to time.
9.02      Cost and Rent Recovery.  A cost recovery index was calculated as the
ratio of present worth of incremental project charges, paid by associated
farmers and Mangolovolo farmers, to present worth of incremental project in-
vestment, operating and maintenance costs. All charges and costs were
measured at present values discounted at a 10% annual rate of interest over
the 40-year evaluation period. On these assumptions the cost recovery index
is 25%; this index would be higher if the charges paid by farmers for exten-
sion services and SAMANGOKY overheads, which would not normally be paid by
farmers, were instead considered as a contribution to investment costs. It
should also be noted that beneficiaries fall within the lowest income cate-
gories of the population. The rent recovery index is the ratio of present
worth of incremental project charges paid by a model farm to the present worth
of incremental "project rent" accruing to the farm before paying project
charges.  "Project rent" was defined as incremental farm income less value of
family labor, returns to management and allowances for uncertainty.  Deprecia-
tion of farm assets and returns to investment have not been taken into account
because principal investment are carried out by SAMANGOKY.  Similarly, no
water fee collection costs have been assumed and general taxes were not
considered. Under these assumptions the rent recovery indices were calculated
for four farm models and amounted to 69% for model 1, 65% for model 2, 77% for
model 3, and 83% for model 5.
9.03      SAMANGOKY's present financial position is satisfactory; the company
covers all its operating costs from its revenues from production, with
the exception of an annual grant from the Government to cover maintenance
costs of the primary irrigation system; it is expected that this grant,
currently valued at FMG 20 million a year, will be phased out within four
years, but this should not have an adverse impact since it represents only
about 1% of total revenues. SAMANGOKY has no significant outstanding debt.



- 47 -
SAMANGOKY's financial position as reflected in balance sheets and income
statements for the past 10 years reflects a situation where charges to farm-
ers cover all current costs of agricultural production. SAMANGOKY has made
small profits on its operations, and financial statements reflect prudent
management. The principal issue for SAMANGOKY's future financial position
is whether the company should pay to Government a sum reflecting a charge
for utilization of land and irrigation infrastructure or whether SAYIANGOKY
is in a position to undertake debt for land development works. This issue,
which arises from the cost recovery issue cited above (para. 9.01), would
be discussed in conjunction with the agreed modification of the current cost
recovery scheme; when the Government has presented detailed proposals on cost
recovery to IDA, SAMANGOKY's financial plan, and specifically the issue of
capacity to service debt or to pay a rent charge to the Government, would be
reviewed.
9.04      The Government's direct benefits as a result of the Project would be
increased tax revenues from import duties on Project investment items and
other taxes and income taxes on salaries of SAMANGOKY's employees. In addi-
tion, SAMANGOKY is subject to a tax of 36% on profits which are not reinvested
and SAMANGOKY financial projections indicate that such taxes would be payable
during the Project period and thereafter. Indirect finan_ial benefits might
be derived from taxes on the textile industry resulting from increased cot-
ton production. An additional benefit to the Government would be savings in
direct expenditures and subsidies for rice imports, since Project production
would be expected to substitute for imports. Local government institutions
would derive some additional revenues through commmissions on incremental
rice production. SAMANGOKY cash flows are included as Table 6, 7 and 8.
X. MARKETS AND PRICES
10.01     SAMANGOKY incremental rice production would be consumed in the
Faritany of Tulear, with a large part in Morombe fivondronan which currently
imports from elsewhere in Madagascar or from abroad. Projections of produc-
tion and consumption for the faritany indicate that the incremental SANANGOKY
production will satisfy a signficant part of the faritany's needs for rice,
but that some imports from outside the faritany will still be required. Paddy
would be milled at an existing mill in Tanandava or at a privately owned rice
mill in Morombe (5,000 tons capacity). Storage capacity in Morombe is adequ-
ate for projected total production from SAMANGOKY. SAMANGOKY would continue
to market rice produced within the irrigation scheme, as well as marketed
surpluses from the fivondronan.  Incremental cotton production would be ginned
at the existing CFDT facility at Tanandava; after a recent extension of the
plant, capacity is now adequate to handle projected production increases.
Cotton fiber would be processed at the SOTEMA plant in Fianarantsoa, which
has adequate capacity to handle increased production. Cotton seeds would
be processed in the Tulear oil mill of the Societe Nationale des Huileries;
CFDT has been, however, considering the possibility of establishing a new oil
mill whch would operate more efficiently than existing facilities, and this
mill might be located in the Mangoky region.



- 48 -
10.02     Madagascar's present pricing and marketing system is described
in Chapter III above. For rice, at a national level, the problems of market-
ing, the level of producer prices, and the Government's consumer subsfdy
policy raise serious problems. The Bank Group has engaged in a conClauing
dialogue with the Government on these issues and will pursue this dialogue in
the future. The implications of the national problems of marketing and
pricing for the proposed Project and for SAMANGOKY are relatively limited,
because SAMANGOKY's marketing responsibilities cover only a small geographie
area and are efficiently managed. An important continuing issue relates to
levels of producer prices of rice; if prices are held at levels significantly
below import parity levels the capacity of SAMANGOKY and associated farmers to
support charges for investments in facilities will be restricted. This issue
will be considered in conjunction with discussions of recovery of investment
costs from farmers (para 9.0i). For cotton, the principal outstanding issue
is the status of CFDT's successor. IDA will monitor closely the establishment
of the new company, including the government's treatment of pricing of cotton
and subsidies for inputs for cotton production. Prices of cotton are currently
set at levels which reflect approximately import parity. The subsidy element
in inputs for cotton cultivation does not result in major distortions. Assur-
ances were obtained during credit negotiations that the Government would
consult periodically with IDA on pricing and marketing policies affecting rice
and cotton production, particularly as these would have a direct impact on
farmers in the Mangoky region and on SAMANGOKY.
XI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
11.01     Benefits resulting directly from Project investments would consist
of increased production of rice and cotton. The value of annual incremental
production is estimated at FMG 868 million, equal to about US$3.9 million,
at full development (year 9). These benefits would accrue to about 3,200
farm families (2,800 in the extension areas and 400 in Mangolovolo). Some
additional benefits would result from Project investments which have not been
quantified. Improved social infrastructure as provided by the Project would
ameliorate the health situation in the Project area, applied research and
investigational work would eventually result in higher productivity, and
investments in training courses and study tours would improve dissemination of
new cultivation techniques. Moreover, long-term benefits would result from
funds spent for the preparation of phase 2 of the valley's development and for
technical assistance for general project preparation.
11.02     The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of the
Project is estimated at about 18% over 40 years. All Project investment
costs were included in the analysis, with the exception of costs for future
project preparation work; these studies would yield benefits only under
future projects. Costs of farm labor were included in the analysis. The cost
of unskilled labor was valued at its actual cost, which was assumed to reflect
the opportunity cost of labor. Foreign exchange costs and benefits were
valued at US$1 = FMG 275 (as opposed to the prevailing rate of US$1 = FMG
225), to reflect more accurately the scarcity value of foreign exchange.
World market prices end 1978, adjusted for quality and location differences,
were used as economic prices for rice and cotton. The Government price policy
for cotton has so far resulted in cotton prices which are roughly in line with



- 49 -
world market prices. However, for rice the world market price was estimated
to be about 40% above the current official price. The development of the
economic prices of rice and cotton over the Project lifetime was calculated in
accordance with the Bank's most recent commodity price projections. The tax
component of imports was estimated to be 25% and the value of imports used
both for investments and for operations was adjusted accordingly. It was
assumed that all Project benefits would result in foreign exchange earnings or
savings since rice would substitute for imports and incremental cotton produc-
tion would be exported. The rate of return was tested for sensitivity. If
investment costs were increased by 20%, the rate of return would be reduced by
three percentage points to 15%; if operating costs were increased by 10%, the
rate of return would be reduced by one percentage point to 17%; if benefits
,we.e reduced by 20%, the rate of return would be 12%; if benefits were lagged
sy one year, the rate of return would be about 14%. Economic rate of return
calculation are shown in Table 9.
Risk
11.03     The success of Project implementation will depend almost entirely
on the quality of SAMANGOKY management in executing land development works
and in organizing agricultural production, and on the degree of support
and control over their activities exercised by the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment. SAMANGOKY is now well managed by any standards, and compares very
favorably with other Malagasy institutions working in the agricultural sector,
but this situation may be jeopardized if changes in staff are made primarily
on a political basis, or if the nature of SAMANGOKY's statutes and relations
with the Ministry are altered without due consideration of the consequences.
A related problem is farmer discipline within the irrigation scheme. SAMANGOKY
currently exerts a very strict control of agricultural activities and has thus
been able to maintain a high level of efficiency within the scheme. With the
imminent reorganization of Madagascar's administration, it is possible that
responsibilities and part of the authority for SMANGOKY's scheme may be
transferred to the fokonolonas institutions and that decisions could be made
on land distribution or organization of agricultural activities which might
result in deterioration of the scheme. Offsetting these risks are the basic
simplicity of Project design and SAMANGOKY's proven experience with the
proposed developments. Assurances proposed are designed to ensure that any
major changes in SAMANGOKY's existing system are discussed in advance with
IDA. Careful supervision will be necessary to ensure that these assurances
are respected.
Employment and Income Distribution
11.04     About 3,200 families or 19,000 persons would benefit directly from
Project investments. The average farm income of beneficiary families would
increase to nearly FMG 180,000 (about US$800) or FMG 30,000 per head (about
US$130) as compared with a farm income of about FMG 50,000 on traditional
farms in the area. Since the families who migrate to the Project area will
have about the same income as traditional farmers, all beneficiaries will be
in the lowest income group of the population. The Project would result in
creation of new employment for about 8,500 people, among them 250 new employees
of SAMANGOKY.



- 50 -
XII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED
12.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
issues:
(a)  procurement arrangements for the Project (para 6.27);
(b)  that the Ministry of Rural Development would submit to IDA at least
once a year a report, verified by the Ministry of Finance, summariz-
ing the financial situation of all Project activities and a descrip-
tion of control procedures (para 6.29);
(c)  that SAMANGOKY would:  (ti) maintain accounts adequate to explain
Project activities; (ii) ensure that these were audited every year
by au'ditors acceptable to IDA; (iii) submit audited f inancial
statements to IDA not later than nine months after the closing of
the fiscal year; and (iv) submit for IDA approval any significant
changes in existing accounting and audit procedures (para 6.30);
(d)  that the Government would continue to support appropriate schis-
tosomiasis control programs in the Mangoky area at least at their
pre-project level (para 6.32);
(e)  that the Government's Department of Agricultural Engineering would
submit an annual report on Project prcgress including a proposed
work program and SAMANGOKY budget for the ensuing year for IDA
review not later than October 1 of each year (paras 7.02 and 7.07);
(f)  that consultants for preparation of detailed engineering designs and
supervision of works would be selected following procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA (para 7.03);
(g)  that the Government would consult with IDA prior to approving any
changes in SAMANGOKY's current constitution, legal statues, operating
regulations and organization which could have a material impact on
Project implementation (para 7.04);
(h)  that the Government would consult with IDA prior to making new
appointments to the post of director of the Works Department of
SAMANGOKY (para 7.07);
(i)  that the Government would ensure that the SAMANGOKY Works Department
enjoys appropriate autonomy within the organization and that manage-
ment information systems adequate to identify costs of land develop-
ment works would be followed (para 7.08);
(j)  that the Government would consult with IDA prior to introducing any
significant change in SAMANGOKY's current agricultural production
system and would maintain arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the
financing and marketing of cotton production (para 7.11);



- 51 -
(k) that detailed proposals and terms of reference for applied
investigational research and studies and for training, and for
project preparation work would be submitted to IDA for approval
(paras 7.14 and 7.16);
(1)  that the Government would submit to IDA for approval terms of
reference for studies of future development of the Mangoky region
o                    (para 7.15);
(m) that proposals for a monitoring system would be submitted to IDA for
approval not later than December 31, 1979 (para 7.18);
(n)  that the Government would report regularly on agricultural
production and matters relating to wit in the area of the
Project (para 7.18);
(o)  that the Government would prepare a completion report on the Project
(para 7.19);
(p)  that the Governnent would submit detailed proposals to IDA for review
on cost recovery from SAMANGOKY farmers not later than June 30, 1980,
and would consult on implementation of these proposals from time to
time (para 9.01); and
(q)  that the Governnent would consult periodically with IDA on its
policies for pricing and marketing of rice and cotton, and par-
ticularly on aspects of these policies which would directly affect
the farmers in the Mangoky region and SAMANGOKY (para 10.02).
12.02     Conditions of credit effectiveness would be the signature of the
IFAD loan and signature of an appropriate contract or contracts between
the Government and SAMANGOKY.
12.03     Subject to the above assurances the Project offers a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$12.0 million to the Government of Madagascar on
standard IDA terms.
February 14, 1979



- 52 -
TABLE/TABLEAU I
MAOAe0A3CAR
MAYGOKY AGRIC0L80T70-  DEi0LOPI.0Nd PROJECT                            PROJET DE DEVELOPPRIDNT AGRICOL5 AU HAIIGOCY
Soey ai Annue 1 GOroit Geste                                           R.eceR itol.tif der cote annuels du pr55er 2
(F-MI'000)                                                        (on mIll1ers de FM4)
Total Yeets   perelan   fi -frega
Project Companeon             --------------  Projeon Ye.r/Aunas Ou Projet              -                 Devises    7.aa  devies         COsmpsssnte du projet
i          2          3          4           5          1-5
n.Mlo   ivil Oonn                                                                                                                      a . OTateto  de geste civil majeurs
ponnuoton uf Main Canal            -         7B,000    92,000         -            -        170,000    119,000       70                   Prslseugrio S du cenel principal
Sencondsry Innlnisan sysoem       -        299,000   351 0CO                      -        650,000    455,000       70                   Systeo d'irrigation secandeire
llnainafo iysnnrn                  -        124 000   146,000         -            -        270,000    189,000       70                   systese de Anainage
Roeds                                        25,000    30,000         -            -         55,000      39,000      70                  Rtetes
Suit-Tonal                   _           526.000   619,000         -            -      1,1450,000         302,Q0  70                      Total partiel
bi.  lud Oatr!uonnntc                                                                                                                     b. Aseesgeresnte termineaux
Intnd Tinaning end  3cvniling      -        140,000   027,000      327,000      204,000   1.090,000    784,000       72                   Debreueeaillenert et terrasseent
lntiany -od Qustoror,y Inn.        -        144-000    97,000       97,000      032,000     470,000    309,000       66                   Syston  d'irrigationtrtar  et quaternaire
Yroduiton u  Ca..lo              29,000     148,000   160,000      160,000       73,000     570,000    1710000       30                   Febricetioe da  aseeme
Soit-Total                    29,000     434 000   584.000      584,000     499,000   7 130,000  1,264.000        59                      Iotal partiel
'. ELorIot  tudton 6  oSurvrnision  2b,000      500,000    00,000                               12 aQ       63090        50               a. Otadee on sorveillace
lnnnomnnnnl Agric. Pruduntion5- 04,000   11_1,00                   183,000     266,000      614,000    331,000       54                d. Conte de preds-tion agricele susslemsntalrea
n  Apolid Asric  Reaseanh             -            500       500        1,000       41 000       3 ,9Q       1.000      33                n  Ranherche egricole applisee
f   ocial On                         5,000       5 000n 5,000 5   00 5,000                      25o000       7,500      30                f  Onfrsatnutaure esaiele
g  Ta-nhinel Onnico                                                                                                                      gS  Servdxas nenlnnieuns
Ononatt Pro'n. (V'.AYGO%tY)      40,000      60.000   100,000      100,000      100,000     400,000    240,000       60                     Proparntion du prejet (MAlU5OgY)
Applied unnioanior                3.000       5,000      d 000       9.000        9.000      34.000      20,000       59                    Travoox ds reoherels
Trasinig                          2,000       3,000      6,000       6,000        6.000      23,000      13,000      57                    Formation
pno]nnt Prep (T6tR?              30,000      45,000    75.000       75,000       75,000     300,000    180,000        60                    Preparation do projet (MDR)
Sub-Total                     75,000     113,000   189,000      190,CO      190,000     757,000    453,000       60                        Totel partiel
Tonal Bsse   ojnt Tuonst _    10,_5,000    192,500 1,158.500      960,000  461,_800, 4.0oo 0  2,921,500            61                    Tonal soute de b.ec  du proi-t
Tontingnntcv Allov-nncen                                                                                                                   Omurenus et revietoon des priae
Phyni-nl 2/                     11,200     182,600   234,100      136,400      119,400     683,700    417,100       61                     Omprennes physiques
Prico 3/                          -        014,700   313,700      301.200      411,600   1,141,200    696,100       61                     Pris 3/
Suit-Totel                   10,200     297,300   547,800      437,G000     331,0   1,824,900  0,113,200         61                        Tend  p 1rtIel
Intel Pr-jent Conne           146_200   1,479.000 2 900   1,400.600   1,492,000   6,624,900  4,034,700             61                     Total esuno de projet
e -s de-Ailn  l f P--rant nornpon-nts, Sne Veo,e TI  A-nnu 6.   rojot- Ynax 1 it  Sepleb.er 1, 1978 - ASu-st 31, 1979.
Pot las  re-ils se rapportent aon a             danpostnts On prajet, voir annnxe 6 du voltna IT.  A-ne 1 de prjont  1er *epterhre 1978  s 31 aoot 1979.
21  15% fan major civil vackh, 20%ion land doveloprent, and 10% fon ail otnhr items, encept for -grialtoral praduation.
15 % pour Ion traveu de gauia uivil cajevrn, 20 2 paon las enanaenaento norinene et 10 % posn le reste oeuf 1l praduatio-  gricole
3/  Fri- bnontlngonals bassd an IB0/0IDA guidelines A0d estirates ai the tacant anouAia niesian as folios:
Provisions pour hausse des poix biase.  sur ion dir etives  n1 BsRD//DA et avaluasioos de 1. ranentn  .siacn  seon que aor  sait:
1902-25
zctsen aevls To
2h11_ Wurks/T.avaxu Su
genie ci-i:          
Studier ato Techtica
Aunistnzur/TTudae  ot     
loual Coouu/i'outs un
rcnntl rationaie            12
WnSghtuiAuoad nyut~
Weig tud o Aran ,yn                                                                         1
Januaoy 12, 1079                                                                                                                Le 12 janvier 1979



MDAGAASCAR
0790060  AGRICl1JTDDAL DEVElIPMENUT PROJETT FRJE0D DE 2VLLOPPEMNT AGRICOLE AOU tlANCOEY
P-c-tact0  Fl.t <'09 FMG)                                                                                      Plan 4l  tncent du cro1tt te   mlta de FMA`
SAM&NOGCIS   ototOatt
ton Fod  -  A, Da.           ntato         Doclope At ...       o td Fartera                                            Ogn                      Total Prat-1t Co2ta
Fo-lt                                      arlg                                     Foavto                            F-cll                               Fre
Local Co-t   EDpanditra    Total         Local . o. t C  Ep-cdit-ce        Total      Local Cot  Eap.cdllt.e Tot1    Local .      ta     t E.p-cdl   Dotal   Local CatI    peh-ditt-e  Total
a) tlorjt CilI W-orks                             _              _              _                        990,DOo         990,000                      -        -          38,700        _        388,700    38.8700       990.000  1,370,700    T
b) Iand Oeveloeaeat                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ___________
Land Clearna and Ltvcllta0                             107 S         1,037,300         -                _              _           _              _        _         397,200       _         397,200    397,200            '057SO   I 454 700             --bcoctailemet etet oat
Ttrtlacy ccd tlaatectaty lrrtaRc1o            -       -                   -         412,600          577,400          990,000       _              _                  368;400       _         368,400    781.000       577 400  1 3580400    Oyatad d'irrigcOioc  teriai   vt ,ucterilc
Sytteta anal Frodoctlot cf Cacala                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o 
Sub-Trcal                                              05_00    L05750           412,600          577 4DD         99D000         -              -        -         765 600                 1 765,600  1,178220D   1,634.900  2 013 100        Total poctiel
c> EotudIe Otottca  ad Scv   aloc               -              -            -           19,000           7100     D    90,0DD        -                       -          52.DDO     _            52,00D      71.O00 719,000 142DDD  C) C7dce etc srveclb01c2ve
d)   rlatte antal Aataltll Ctodccltol             -             -            --                             -              -        356,11D1-       426,300   02,400         -                       -       356100D      426,300    782,400  7) Pr oductonrivOlteu lteirt
c) Applied Aorlcolotual Dacaocc-                  -            1.400         1,400          _                                                                  -            2, 00       _           2,800      2,800        1,400       4 200  e) Pechtrche cerivolr  Ppl quoe
f) Social itran tractate                        -              _            _              _               _              _         12,700           -       12,700       ID,OOO    9,800        19,800      22,700        9.800      32,500  f) Infra.tructure soci2le
S) Techclcal Occocea                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g) Secvovcs lote iact
FtoJett Pcep. <Oatgokyj                       -              -            _              _            7235700         235,700       -              _        _          19H 500  60,400        25d,90D    198,563       296,100    494.600      Propcrot4oc du proJet <MBngoky)
Applied lcvcortlgato                         -            21,IDD        21,lO         ..       -                                  -              -        -           1600O    2,00        19 400      160600       23,90       40,500     Tr.cccoc de  ct4herch, 00h tld, etIt
Tralcina                                      -              -            -                            14,600          14.609       -              -        -           11,100      -          ll,10 lO     I,IDO       14.0D0    25.700       FC,aOtjon
PcoJtct Pcep. (11DB)                          -           180,00D       180,DDD          -            42,20D          47,201>       -              - 4                 149,OD      _         149,000     149,000      22t,200    371,200       1lrdp-tioc du p-ojet (0D0)
Sob^Tatal                               -______        101.100      j181((0 1DO     _ -                           g_            -              _                  3_5 20f   63,200        43d.400    375,200       556,8000    932,000         Total pertir
ta> COutoaaoctcc Oaa73,300                                   129,200       202,5300     122,200          215,300         337,500        _-                                              -            -       195,500      344,50    540,000  h) Ocpt9v7a
votol                                   73.0        1.3d9_20D0    1.46_00        _538.00       2.146.200      2j7;0e        268O80         4260300  795_100   1 594_300  77 0D0    1 661.3Q7  2,590200   4,034.700  6.624.90D                  10
/  Thia ctt-go,y doca not Incclde tht  utata  otoci cf  c tcpgacciaat, but cotralpooda only ta tle .001locaaed pa.tt - f tht IDA Credit 00d tlte IFAD toca.  lotho-equ   y,tCht coctsouf tlt   t-  fic  ..acd by IDA ccd IFAt  I,avc c.
bot., codoccd by tbot rcaoOct in tt,c civet table.
Cccl ane cc,cprccd pa, 1e coatal to-l yoar latcevcc cat, aqolact secctoca aoc pattloc ....-.llocc..  de c-dit dr  l'IDA 1     lt du p-r, 1' l        or .onsequent,  ccc lt ttbleau cI-dedIuA  ce Doo-ntt mal deditl dot  coua
dts cleneata lnnceta Pnr 1,100 et '1.FD
Joccary 18, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                               L  18 J.avier 1979



- 54-
Table/Tableau 3
MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE AU MAOC-KY
Estimated Disbursement Schedule               Calendrier estimatif aes aecaisse;m2rir.
Cumulative Disbursement at
IDA Fiscal Year            end Quarter/Decaissements              Exercice et
and Quarter                 cumulatifs (US$'000)                  trimestre IDA
1978/79                                                           1978/1979
March 31, 1979                                                    31 mars 1979
June 30, 19791/                                                   30 juin 19791/
1,79/80                                                           1979/1980
September 30, 1979                                                30 septembre 1979
Decemnber 31, 1979                        -                       31 decembre 1979
March 31, 1980                           50                       31 mars 1980
June 30, 1980                           150                       30 juin 1980
1980/81                                                           1980/1981
September 30, 1980                      250                       30 septembre 1980
December 31, 1980                       400                       31 decembre 1980
March 31, 1981                          800                       31 mars 1981
June 30, 1981                         1,500                       30 juin 1981
1981/82                                                           1981/1982
Septemiber 30, 1981                   2,200                       30 septembre 1981
December 31, 1981                     3,000                       31 decembre 1981
March 31, 1982                        4,ooo                       31 mars 1982
June 30, 1982                         5,000                       30 juin 1982
1982/83                                                           1982/1983
Sertember 30, 1982                    6,000                       30 septembre 1982
December 31, 1982                     7,000                       31 decembre 1982
March 31, 1983                        8,500                       31 mars 1983
June 30, 1983                         9,500                       30 juin 1983
1?83/8LI                                                          1983/1984
Septeniber.3O, 0983                  10,000                       30 septembre 1983
December 31, 198&                    10,500                       31 decembre 1983
March 31, 1984  /                    11,000                        31 mars 19842/
June 30, 1984                        11,500                       30 juin 1984
1984/B5                                                           1984/1985
September 30, 198h                  12,000                       30 septembre 19843/
1/ Expected Date of Effectiveness, June  1, 1979/Date prvue pour entree en vigueur, ler juin 1979.
2/ Expected Date of Completion, February 29, 1984/Date prvue pour achevement du projet, 29 fevrier 19%4
3/ Expected Closing Date, August 31, 1984/Date de cloture, 31 aout 1984
February 14, 1979                                                  Le 14 revrier 1979



MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Years          1978                  1979                  1980                   1981                   1982                  1983                   1984
Qoarters  10   2Q   3Q   40   10   20   30   40   10   20   30   40   10   2 Q   30   4Q   1Q   20   30   4'   1     20   3Q   4Q   1Q   20   3Q   40
Project Planning and Preparation
Program to Resolve Problems
of Morondava Project
Soul S-vev
Selection of Consultants
for Designs and Supervision
Detailed Designs                        _                             -    -    - _          -
Preparation of Bidding Documents
International Tender
Project Developments
Construction - Major Civil Works
Land Developments, On-Farm Works                                                500 ha                   600 ha                 650 ha                750 ha                800 ha
Agricultural Production - Rice                                                                800 ha                1280 ha                1 iQO0ha.             2400 ha                3000 ha
Cotton                                                             I:                             -              u-         w~J
100 ha                220 ha                350 ha                 500 ha                 700 ha
Agricultural Research-                                                                       -     -    -     -     -    -    -      -    -     -    -     -     -     -     -    -
Social Infrastructure                                                                              -    -    - t                                      -
Hea th Progrem
Training and Studies                                                              - _    -         -    -    -    -    -                                            + -    -
Proiect PreParasion - Manqoky Reqion                                                                                                 -                --                   
Project Preparztion Unit                                   _           _             +                     +
Monitoring and Evaluations                                                           Plan Implerientatioin
IDA
Appraisal                                      April 1978
October
Negotiations                                                   Dcme
Board Approval                                 *c                    rch 1979
EffectivenessI                                                                  IFeuay18
Compietion                                                                                                                                                                           F |1984
_ __- August Bn-95
World Bank - 19358



MADAGASCAR
XANGgOY AGRICCLTCRAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT                                             PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE AU MANGROYA
Sunary af Farm Models -                                                          Recapitulatif des modeles
d'exploitation 1/
Model 1              M_      e ...Modti 2       Model,
r. Port/arn snd lesterr. Extensions            Fice      Rice    Cetton    Total   Fine    Cctton         Total       A. Extensions aU nord et a l'ouest
Ares unirn Cr,ps h.)                      1.0       1.0      0.5         1.5   O.         1.0        1.5           Superficies sous cultures (ha)
Yield <ton;                                7.0       7.0      1.L          -     3.5        2.8         -            Rende-ent (tonnes)2t
vron  ralut  ef orodontiln (l G)        0-5,000   45,C9C   119,09C    3'4,o9C   122,500  238,000  360,500           Valeur brute de production (FXG0
tnFz soiS se -o MPITOO5Og (A5lA1c )-n    70,000O  70,000c   56,00    ,12t,C00   35,C00   112,000  117,0CO          Redevances  payees a 1  SAMANGOXY (FM)3/
soss' snnnns/ir-d tale.r <FM.i-/         1,125      -                   6,392    - 5                               Couts de main d'oeuvre/main d'oeuvre louee (F'M)4/
Net f-re  ir.nome                       173,875                                                      213,500        Revenu d'exploitation net
P.  Onon--  "nto                             Madel 4  Model 5                                                        B. Mangolovolo
Arta unser crqps (hs)                      1.0       1.0                                                             Superficies sous cultures (ha)
ie' 'tonns('                             ?.'       -,L                                                             Rendement (tomnes) 2/
Prroco _3'on cf srsionsmr (py3)          31,09' 220,C-O                                                             Valeur brute de production (FMG)
Fen-     t.    S 0iA NGGOO     (oG)2/     I1,2C0   79,C0O                                                            Redevances payees a la SAMAMGCkY (FM )Il
Os/en ns;s/trs/ir   lober (r.cG)           -         -                                                              Couts de main d'oeuvre/main d'oeuvre lusee (FMG)4/
t1D  fn  inre                             7       151,000                                                            Revenu d'exploitation net
L/ FoU.  develnpment, except fos Modl 4 ,hsre anly USe of additisnal irrigation sater lo assumed.
s plein developpearnt, sauf pour modele 4 osaolemant l'utilisation d'eau pour irriguer est tonsideree.
2/ Yieldo in the sorthern asd western extensions: 3.5 tons of paddy par ha snd crap: 2.8 tans of cottes
per hs. Yields i the Mangolovolo ares: 1.3 tons af paddy per ha sud trop with additional irrigation
ester: 3.2 tons af paddy pet ha snd trop at fu1l developeent.
Rondements son extensions nord et ouest: 3,5 tonnes de paddy par ha et psr recolte; 2,8 tonnes de
coton par ha.  Rndnsemnts dsns la ragion de Mangolovolo: 1,3 tonnes de paddy par ha et pas  retolte
oescou additionnelle pour irriguer; 3.2 tontes de paddy pa.  ha et recolte a plein rendement.
3/ str rise  inca are paid iu kind: 1 to- pet ho per trop; for  -ottos, IAM500KY aolleats rhe fee by
deducting FMG 40 from  the offitis1 priSe; io  sangolovolo, Model 1, only oharges for -ater and seeds are ealculated.
Ponr le rie, les redevnseos soet payes en especes: 1 tonne par ho par recolte; pour le coton, la SAIANCEKY
obtient la redevante en retenart 40 FMG du pris officiel: au Msngolovolo, modela 1, seulement les redevances pour
l'eau et les semantes snt ete asnlees.
4/ It is  -s-med that on thi  average tas family memberu tan work full-tino sd ana family memer half-time an the fara.
Nton suFFastos qu'en moyenne deux  .m.bres de la famille peuvent travailler s tempo plein et un autre s ui-temps
snt l' eaploitationn.
;/ Not imputablelnon attribuable.
S2ptnhber 7, 1978                                                                                    Le 7 septembre 1978



MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE AU MANGOKY
SAMANGOKY Projected Cash Flow                                                   Compte d'exploitation generale previsionnel de la SAMANGOKY
('000 FMG)                                                                      (en milliers de FMG)
Description                           1979           1980           1981         1982           1983          198ete_ Designation
suivantes
Total Income (A)                    709. 800       730. 800        805. 600     862, 560      937.360         984.320        Recettes totales (A)
Agriculture                         300. 000fa)    350. 000        350. 000     350. 000      350. 000        350. 000(b)    Agriculture
On-faru Development                 15.00          10000000b*1010  0()                                                       Amenagement
Canal Factory                       150.000        150.000         000 000         Offlb)    150.000(b)                      Usine-Canaux
Total Income (A)                  1.159.800      1.230.800      1.305.600   1.362.560   1.437.360          1.484.320         Recettes totales (A)
Expenses (B)                                   :              :             :              :             :                   npenges (B)
Agricultural Expenses:                                                                                                       Depenses agriculture:
- Direct Costs                      561. 173       577. 124        635. 056     678. 545   :  736. 477   :   774. 036        - Couts directs
- Staff                              70.850   t    77.400           88.050        98. 700     108. 200        108. 200       - Encadrement
Total                               632. 023   :   654.524         724. 106     777,245       844, 677        882. 236       Total
On-farm Development Expenses                                                                                                 Depenses Amenagement
- Personnel                          87. ()00       90. 000         90. 000       90. 000      90. 000         90. 000       - Personnel
- Materials                          40. 000        50. 000         50. 000       50. 000      50. 000         50. 000       - Materiaux
- Equipment                         134, 000       160. 000        160, 000      160. 000     160. 000        160. 000       - Equipment
Total                               261, 0         300.-000        300.000      300. 000      300. 000        300. 000       Total
Canal Factory Expenses                         .              .             .              .             .                   Depenses Usine-Canaux
- Personnel                          40. 000        40. 000         40. 000 :    40. 000        40. 000  :    40. 000        - Personnel
- Equipment                          30. 000        30. 000         30. 000      30. 000       30. 000         3 0. 000      - Materiel
- Materials                          80. 00o    :    80. 000        80. 000       80.000        80. 000  *    80. 000        - Equipment
Total                               150.000        150.000         150.000 *   150.000        150.000   r   150.000          Total
Overheads                            77. 000         79, 000        81. 000 :    83. 000        85, 000        87. 000       Direction et administration
Total Expenses (B)                1.110.023      1.183.524       1.255.106   1.310.245   :1.379.677   : 1.419.236            Total Depenses (B)             eH
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __*_ _ _ __:_ _ _ _ __,_   _ _ _ _* _ _  _ _ __ _                                   o-
Profits                              49.777         47.276          50.494        52.315        57.689         65.084        Benefices
NB - (a) Including 250 ha on ZDF/Y compris 250 ha sur FED
(b) Assuming continuation of on-farm development after IDA project/Nous supposons la continuation des amenagements apres le projet IDA
January 16, 1979                                                                                                              Le 16 janvier 1979



MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAI DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT                                                 PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE AU MANCOKY
SAMANGOKY Pro jected Cash Fiow fromi Agricultural Activities                              Compte d'exploitation agricole previsionnel de la SAMANGOEY
('000 FMG)                                                                                (en milliers de FMG)
Description                                    1979           1980             19 1a          1982           1983          1984 et                   Designation
suivantes
Existing EDF on-farm Development (ha)           5.400            5. 500        5. 500           5. 400        5, 400         5 400      Amenagements FED existants (ha)
New on-farm Development IDA-FIDA (ha)              300           1. 050        1. 800           2, 550        3. 300  *      3 300       Amenagements nouv. IDA-FIDA (ha)
1.   Total Developed (ha) without Mangolovolo        5. 700           6, 450        7,200            7. 950  .     8,700          8.700       I  Total amenages (ha) sans Mangolovolo
il.   Arcas cultivated (ha)                                                                   :               :              :                Il.  Soiperf. cultivees en association (ha)
- Cotton                                        4()00           4.000          4. 250          4. 300         4.600  .       4.600           - Coton
- Rice                                             900           1.200         1.700           2,400          2.900          3.400           - Riz
- Antaka                                          500              500 __                         500            500           700           - Antaka
5. 400          5 .700         6,450  :        7.200          7. 950         8,700
A.   Income (x EMG 1000)                                                                                                                     A.   Recettes (x 1000 FMA)
- Cotton (FMG 40/kg and 2.8 t/ha)            448C 00          448, 00o      476, 00040 FMG/kg/2,8 t/ha)
- Rice (2 t/ha and PMG 35/kg)                  63, 000 o    84. 000          119, 000 o   168, 000   : 203, 000O   238. 000                  - Riz (2 t/ha et 35 FMG/kg)
- Antaka (l t/ha and FMG 20/kg)                b 0. 000    :     . 01 0  10                     . 000 loo ooo :    . ooo0   14. 720            - Antaka (1 t/ha et 20 FMG/kg)
- 50. Rebate on chemicais on                                                                                                                 - Ristournes 50 % sur produits
Cotton                                     176. 000         176. 000  *   187, 0oo         189, 200      200. 200       202, 400             chimiques  sur coton
- Rebate on spray                          _ _12, 800          12 800   . .                 _                                                  Ristourne avion de traitement
709,800         730.800        805. 600        862,560        937.360        984.320
B.   Expenses (x FMG 1000)                                                                   *.   Depenses (x 1000 FMG)
a) Direct Costs                                                         *              :               *              *                      a) Couts directs
- Cotton (FMG 117,520/ha)                    470, 080  :    470. 080  :   499. 460           505. 336      534. 716       540. 592           - Coton (117.520 FMG/ha)
- Rice (FMG45,300/ha)                         40. 770          54.360 :      77. 010   :    108. 720 :     131. 370       154 020            - Riz (45.300 FMG/ha)
- Antaka (F1M4 15,650/ha)                      7, 825  :        7.825  :          825  :       7. 825  :      7. 825       1 0. 955          - Antaka (15,650 FMG/ha)
- Network Maintenance (F140 7,870/ha)         42,498           44. 859       50. 761      _  56. 664       _62. 560 _       68, 49           - Entretien reseau (7,870 FMG/ha)
561, 173        577. 124  :  635. 056  :    678. 545:   736, 477             774, 036                                                 >
b) Staff                                       70, 850         77.400  .    88. 050  :        98. 700       108. 200  .   108 200            b) Encadrement et fonctionnement    s
c) Overheads                                  30. 000  _       32. 000        34. 000         36. 000  *    38, 00         40  00  _         c) Direction et Administration
Total B = a + b + c                          662, 023         686.524       757. 106         813. 245       882. 677  ,  922,236             Total B = a + b + c
C.   Profits = A - B                                47 777          44. 276        48. 494         49. 315        54, 683        62. 084    C.  B3enefice = A - B
January 17, 1979                                                                                                                                  Le 17 janvier 1979



MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                   PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE AU MANGORY
SAMALGOKY Projected Project Cash Flow from Agricultural Activities                       Compte d'exploitation agricole previsionnel de la SAMANGORY pour le projet
('000 FMG)                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(en milliers de FMG6)
Description                            1979           1980             1981           1982            1983         1984 et                       Designation
Description  1979 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  suivantes
1. Areas developed/yr(ha)               300              750            750             750             750            -                1. Superficies amenagees/an(ha)
2. Total Areas Cultivated                        :                                                                                      2. Superficies totales cultivees
(without Mangolovolo):               -       :       300          1.050          1.800      :    2.550   :  3.300                      (sans Mangolovolo) dont
- Cotton (ha)                        _               _              250      :       300     :       550           600                  - Coton (ha)
- Rice (ha)                                  .       300      .     800           1. 500           2. 000   :  2.500                    - Riz (ha)
- Antaka (ha)                                                                       '               *              200                  - Antaka (ha)
A  Income (x FMG 1000)                                           : 28.000       :   33.600       :   61. 600   : 67.200                 A. Recettes (x 1000 FMG)
- Cotton                                          21.000      : 56. 000    :  105. 000           140. 000   :175.000                    - Coton
- Rice                                                               -               -               -          4.000                   - Riz
- Antaka                                                         I1. 000         13.200      ;   24.200   : 26.400                      - Antaka
- 50'/, Rebate on Cotton             _       .      _   __  . _ 800    :             960       _   1,760        1.920                     Ristourne s coton (50 . produits)
Rebate on Spray                                                                                                                   Ristourne avion traitement
Total A                              _            21,000         95.800         152,760          227,560      274.520                   Total A
B. Expenses (x FMG 1000)                                                                                                                B. Depenses (x 1000 FMG)
a) Direct Costs                                                                                                                         a) Couts directs
- Cotton                             _                _          29.380          35.256           64.636       70.512                   - Coton
- Rice                               -            13.590         36.240          67. 950          90.600      113.250                   - Riz
- Anltaka                                                                                                       3,130                   - Antaka
- Network Maintenance                                                                  -                                                  Reseau -  3.130reAniek
- NewrkMineane, 2.361       8.263           14.166          20. 068       25.971                   - Reseau entretien
Total                                             15.951         73.883         117.372          175,304      212.863                   Total
ea
b) Staff                                           6.550         17.200           27. 850         37.350       37.350                   b) Encadrement
c) Overhead                      _ _  _            2.000        _4.000             6. 000          8.           10. 000                 c) Direction et administration
Total B   a + b + c                  -            24.501      : 95, 083      *  151.222       :  220. 654   : 260, 213                   Total B   a + b + c
C. Profit   A - B (or loss -)                 -        3.501            717          1.538             6.906   * 14.307                 C. Benefice = A - B (or perte -)
January 17, 1979                                                                                                                                Le 17 janvier 1979



MIAA_SCAR
LA N or     Y A(GIOCuIRU_I DEVELOMeLIT PROJECTT                                                                                              RE             A        A  M     sf
c lRat  xRn f               cuaten                                                                                             Calcul de tauxe reeahilfto  eannauce
(ln mtllions cf TMG)                                                                                                             (enilli-ns de piFG)
Project Y-ro   I Ace-e du projet
1          2           3          4          5           6          7           8           9          10          il          12       13-40
Incrcoocoxi loti Pr'odooslon          -         25 O       11 i.1     224.8       56o.o      503.2      r6sS, z      688,5       701L       7(`1.4 7121,4          701.4        701. ,    Production de rie aupplenlriatre
Ixoremectol Gcttet Prodoouoti                     5i.1       2...7      33)        tS,I       lo.8      155.1       I,O.P      1  .1           r       166.6      1,.6         166.6   Production de actLn supplerentsire
Tol,x  Crop B-,ori rs              _.         ,J           .        273.2       4145).7    638.2       816L.       B8." 7     8:2- Rhi.O             863.'       S68.0          8 6o      Telal Be-ficen prove..nt des culteres
Adjotxec..o - Lice Pelote                        '2.5        52.K      lli.1       2)62        306.0      3o5,c       477        4.             ,        S0',,      51?.0         520.6   Ajuat-.ents  -  Prix de rie
Adjuotrecte - Cotton Pelote            -          t          -2.' t                 _R,1        -2-b       -'.         -3.5        -                      -3.h        --          -3,6   Ajuatemarctt  - Prix de oxxe
Sut-b l                                        G G        5.        o0.8       20z.1      34.2        41          '.64.2      4          4'i.7      499.5       5o6.1        517.2       Total partial
Toicil Adolutd1 Beceftto-                      38.      3183.1     38z.0       6,.6       932.0    1,223.5 1,RL? , 9       1,    O    i 3         1,367.5 11276.4          1,385.2       Trata  B-ufice- ajuatea
1'xrxlgx Ecehexce A.ljxel.xrct         -          3.7        42,c       87.3       i46.6     2?12.5       22. 1       23 9. .5      /.2      3L9,P       311.3      2132 ,        315.8   Ajuataznt des d-ci-oa
Tld   BoomccI     Boxefits          -         47.      231.0       '70. 3      8.       II1         1,5 3.      1 ,612.2   t_5422    j6           1,69'.2                                Total BencOea eeon,qua
23OSTS                                                                                                                                                                                    COJT
Ixoren.ertol Productinn Costte                                                                                                                                                            Couts de production aapoleo.aatalnes
Rite                                             19.2      104.3       p06.2       025S.      447.8       5Tp.4       572.4      570.,4      572.1       9701.4     570.4        570.4   Rie
Cxtt-c                                 :          1,.2      25.;        53.0        84,8      l1k.f       14k.4       64.34      14B.4       i,P ,4      138.4       148,41      148.4 . Ctes
Sub-TotaL                           -         21        1249,7      2S.2        loc        563.3       71338      718,        71586       713,3      718.3       718.8        718.8       Total partiel
Adjustcext for Tete                   -         -1.5       -3,4       -i6."       -26,6      -36.7       -46.7       -46.7       -46.7      -46.7       -46.7       -46.7       -362.7   AJustant - imp.te
Adjext-eet fer  oorego E-chlnge       -          2.6        15.6       34 .1       53.1       h7.7        36.3        R4,3                                                        M.36.3   36.3  36.0  36.3   Ajnatant - deviste
Total Eomoc  Voler of                                                                                                                                                                     Wtal Valeur acontque des
Toonncreont  Production tooto                 24.7       L36.9      273."       432.5      39S.4       753.4       7'53.4     758.4       753.4       75891      75c.4        758.4         Ete de pr_duc44on suppltmentairea
Inaeer ntal Oeerheed Casts              -         2.0         4.0        6,0         8.0        10.0        10.0       10.0       I.O        l0.0        10.0        10.0         10.0   Vrais gerauD  sseee,sentairee
Inves tRacta                                                                                                                                                                              I     t i9 9     th
Major Civil Worka                       -       604.9       711.9          -         -           -                      -           -           -          -           -            -      Trar-x de gntie civil najeora
Land Dbvalopuect                       34.8     520.0       700.8       700.8      59838         -           -           -          -           -          -           -            -     tAnneesgencn taroinata
4leeigu Studien and Slpervsiso=        28.6      55.0        55.0          -         -           -                      -           -                      -           .            -     Etudes er aurceillane
Applied Agricaltural Resnareh           -         0.6         0,6         1.1        1.1         -                 -          -           -           -          -                  -     Recherche agrisole applique.
social Snfrsecroerare                   5.5       5.5         5.5        5.5          .5         -                                                                                  -     Itfrastructure a==iale
Applied lovoatigation and Training    5.0         8.0        14.0       15.0        15.0         -                      -           -           -          -            -                  Travaux de recherche, etuden, nay.gna et autres
8ob-Total                           73.9 1J,94.8  _ 487.8           722.4       620.4                                                                                                        t - l 1t0   particl
Adjoatrent for Tfues                   .11.1   - 179.2    - 223.2    - 108.4       - 93.1         -           -           -          -           -                                   -     Ajuatenent - impots
Adjostmenot fer Corrige 8xchange         7,4     119.5       148.8        72.2       62.0         -           -           -          -           - 7  - 4                                  A5ust4enex2  - devoit -
Total Enonamie Value af                                                                                                                                                                    Total falexr cccx       o dh      t               s
Invastnent Caste                     70.2   1,135,1    11413.4       686.2       589.3         -          -           -           -          -           -                        _        d'dniealisese              no
Total Econonir Caste                    70.2   1,161.8    1,554.3       965.5    1 029.         605.4       768.4      768.4       76B.4      768.4       7768.4        8.4        768.4   Total couts Xeoniquee                            e
January 15, 1979                                                                                                                                                                          a 13 janie  1879



MADACi MCAfl
MANGOKY AGRICULTUHA:. DEVt!LOPMENT PROJECT
MiabuV ot Ri oprKnont to
L -d i *fow,n 
-f11
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w a .                                                                   .- * 
S.t-:-1  Lf W                       Lt                                       Lt                                  r
1-. L                            rf,7- Ir,                                                                                                                                                  F
X t    [_ :.:~ _w                                                       -s -S .      _                                                                     5 -1  ^.
w_o r* - 10>40
1!



MADAGASCAR
MANGOKY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAMANGOKY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGEMENT
DEPARTMENT                      SuPPLES                    ACENTRAL                                          AGRICULTURE                FINAN
OF VVORKS       SECTION                                               VVDMIISTATIN  ORKSHO0P  DEPARTMENT                SC
CANAL         BULDNGNETVVORK MAINTENANCE
FACO             CONSTRUJCTION        DEVELOPMENT           PERSONNEL            ACCOUNTS              SOCIAL           AGRICULTURAL        AND AGRICULT URAL
SECTION    AND MAINTENANCE           SECTION             SECTION              SECTION             SECTION              SECTION            VVORKS SECTION
s             ~~~~SECTION
World Bank -19294



5 63 -
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN VOLUME II
ANN.EXE 
SA:.LANGOKY
Appendix 1     Articles of Association of Societe
pour l'anenagement et la mise en valeur
de la Vallee du Bas-Mangoky
Appendix 2     Provisional Partnership Agreement
Table  1       SAMIANGOKY Personnel
Table  2       SAMhANGOKY Balance Sheets and Income
Statements 1969-76
Table  3       SAM4ANGOKY Expenses and Receipts,
Budget vs. Actual for the year ended
September 30, 1977
Table  4       SAilANGOKY Financial Projections 1979-83
Table  5       Works Undertaken in Third Tranche of
First Phase
Table  6       Progress of Cultivated Crop Areas and
Crop Production in the SAIMANGOKY Perimeter
Table  7       irriaatioti Demand - Phase I
Table  8       water Demand at Bereho Inlet
laDie  v       Kice:  Areas ana eroauction in tte
SAMANGOKY Perimeter
2      Rice and Cotton Production, Processing and Marketing
Table  1       Rice - Area Cultivated and Production
Table  2       Rice - Imports and Exports
Table  3       Cotton - Area Cultivated and Production
Table  4       Cotton - Area Cultivated, Production,
Yield of Seed Cotton
3      The Project Area
Table  1        Climatologica'l Data in Lower Mangoky Valley
Table  2       Area Cultivated and Production of Major
Crops in Morombe Fivondronan
Table  3       Development of Livestock and Livestock
Slaughterings in Morombe Fivondronan
4      Agricultural Research
Appendix 1     Rice Research Stations and Centers
Appendix 2      Cotton:  Varietal Tests
C   '5C, E?T  - Or?oni#.on CWrrt
Map 1          Agricultural Research Stations



- 64 -
ANNEXES
Farm Budgets and Produ.i-u. EstiraLes
Table  1        Prices of InDuts and Outputs
Table  2        Basic Agricultural Data for Farm Models
(Cropping Pattern, Yields and Outputs)
Table  3        Financial Crop Budgets for Farm Models
Table  4        Operational and Financial Results
- Cash Flow, Farm 1
Table  5        Operational and Financial Results
- Cash Flow, Farm 2
Table  6        Operational and Financial Results
- Cash Flow, Farm 3
Table  7        Operational and Financial Results
.- Cash Flow, Farm 4
Table  8        Operational and Financial Results
- Cash Flow, Farm 5
Table  9        Financial Returns to Labor
Table 10        Basic Agricultural Data for Areas
(Extensions and Mangolovolo)
Table Il        Raw Labor Requirement per ha per month
- Area 1
Table 12        Paw Labor Requirement per ha per month
- Area 2
- Area 1
Table 14        Labor Requirement per ha per month
Area 2
Table 15        Fertilizer ReQuirements for Project Area
'< .v   .^' o t i. 21na lu C-a.vaea, =.c:cmentai
Production, Incremental Value of Produc-
tion, Incremental Costs
Chart 1         Cropping Calendar
Chart 2         Man-Days/Ha - Rice
Chart 3         Man-Days/Ha - Cotton
6      Cost Estimates
Appendix I      Estimated Costs for Applied Research and
Extension Work in the Mangoky Project Area
Table  1        Number and Costs of Trial and Demonstra-
tion Plots
Table  2        Equipment Required by SAfANGOKY
Table  3        Cost Estimates for Major Civil Works
Table  4        Estirate Noe. 1:  On-Farm Development
Works:  E2rthwtork
Table  5        Estimate !Wo. 2:  Setting of Quaternary
Irrigaticn Canalette and Works on
Quaternary Drains
Table  6        Estin,ate No. 3;  Pre-Fabricated Canals -
Conduits and Canals
7      Terms of Reference for Consulting Engineers
8      Documents Available in the Project File



IBRD 13654R
44'      46'                                  4E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sO    JANUARY 1979
12'2
Antomnboka
MADAGASCR                                                                         
AGRICULTUREADRUAWDVLOMN
Maojo  IBRD Projects                   Pro    od                       ~  u~9    -                              '
MAJOR CROPS                            A[W~fe   od
'  e Var'ii                                o'proe    od
14  ~ ~      P8pp~on                     --~.         acd                                                                                                           4
_____ -Du cap                              orn ,    c  oro                                              -Antolaha
d Cotte ore disr~tedVlli LbstL<                                          - iefrnr 
t the cC,,ry,                                     O4                                                              rnck~      >'
150       2?00     5              rjc         od
ClLMETERR$           10cSMnr                                                                                      
MILES             ~Sno,                       ~     M      i
.ancrAacitaPrjc
Mjd e Ws              \                                            rkzb         ~      r~b                            omasnia
Fuokclmo  ~       ~         nrdrnn     MoMangoro  roresrry
20'                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'
Mrnai>a  Poet             /
Mag   m rjc
e i                                              f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5e ',i' nroi! ir-tabd-.
7h anmnain  usO     th.e
Wr  eOadtaffliai-,a>
Forafongono               /o~~~~Id>-tant  Ma. Jgi./ttai. af



IBRD 13655
43 30'                                                           43240'                                                        43*50'     AUGUST 1978
M A NDA G ASCAR
Mangoky Agricultural Development Project
PROPOSED EXISTING
:L `  \W  :.  irr,gated areas
Il                                           ...-~~~~~~~~.~-     Mai,, canais
~Rivers
21-20`                                                                                                                                   Dike                      21 20
N                                                                                  Main ronds
--- Bourdary of AMVR
k  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Nt             I                                               J  O
`   |          "                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tsionihy   \   
I                                                   1/ AKAMIE
AP      |      f ,,,-_co                                               
/   /    \        /                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~Bekapan>\ 4     4     
,    / <   ,  ,iZ   .                                    ~~~~~~~~ANDRANIOMANiTY               
<    `  7  D                                          S    S t S I o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tain             \
r                                                                                         1 ,,,11,l^t-5  S\a,tR    4,`  '`<\A
Z A         I                                        R                                                                I! TNZANIA
BOTSWANA ,.                    NAMATOA            Am\ beeh sil,n
_'O'SWANA           ZI           . .                                                                             \                                    ,    \    i
Reko pana ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ erh                \Dsndn
UNION             f,                                       15                                                   \Inta  str ct reI 
OF   ytsTo               X>,N      'ea7imf/ittfE bthUsatCe  hdnmaismdadte                                   \<
OCEAN ~     ~       ~       NRAOANNS
SOUTH  ARCXbmae  odmtl hig/;po m 9norrnedrxetl                                                                        \) $
do-n Moromb



