CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 881 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Mangoky Agricultural Development Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 17, 1979
nQ


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 881 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1979, between the DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (hereinafter, called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of an
agricultural development project by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
calle the Fund Loan Agreement), the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (the Fund). has agreed to make a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate
principal amount of various currencies equivalent to five million
Special Drawing Rights (as defined and as valued from time to time
by the International Monetary Fund) (SDR5,000,000), to assist in
financing the same project on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
(C) the Borrower, the Association and the Fund have entered
into, an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the
Joint Project Agreement) providing for the allocation, withdrawal
and use of the Credit and of the Fund Loan and the execution of
the project to be financed thereby as such project is described in
Schedule 1 of said Joint Project Agreement (hereinafter called the
Project), as well as other matters relating othereto; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit


﻿-2-
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.  Wherever used $,n this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
Section 1.01 (b), (d), (f), (g) and (h) of the Joint Project
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit' Agreement
set forth or referred to, an,amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Se-tion 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the
Joint Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall othewwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1989, and ending January 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of


﻿-3-
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to "be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such_principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditi ons.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
and shall duly perform all its other obligations set forth in the
Joint Project Agreement as if they were fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE \IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) SAMANGOKY shall have failed to carry out any of its
obligations under the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01
(b) of the Joint Project Agreement;
(b) any law or regulation governing the organization,
administration or operations of SAMANGOKY, or its Statuts, shall
have been modified or enacted in such a way as to impair the
ability of SAMANGOKY to carry out its obligations under the
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Joint Project
Agreement; and
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any grant or loan made to the Bor-
rower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the a-reement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due "and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;


﻿F1i
-4-
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
(i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of the Joint Project Agreement have been entered into by
the parties thereto.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Fund Loan Agreement and the Joint Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified and signed on
behalf of the Borrower and are legally binding upon the Borrower
in accordance with their terms; and
(b) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
the Joint Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified
and signed on behalf of the parties thereto and constitute binding


﻿-5-
obligations of the Borrower and of SAMANGOKY in accordance with
their terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 31, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la Presidence de la Rfpublique
Charge des Finances et du Plan
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFINPLAN                         22339
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Norbert Rakotomalala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrg Gug
Acting Regiotial Vice President
Eastern Africa


