RESTRICTED
Report No. P-530
FILE CjOrr
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
BANK LOAN
AND A
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
FOR A
PLANTATION PROJECT
IN
CAMER OON
March 13, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVE-OPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONIMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDEJT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE CAMEROONS DEVILOPD4ENT CORPORATION
AND CREDIT TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
operation consisting of a Bank loan, in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $7 million to the Cameroons Development Corporation (Camdev)
and an IDA credit, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $11
million, to the Federal Republic of Cameroon to assist in financing a
plantation project in West Cameroon.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Federal Republic of Cameroon is a Federation of the States
of East and West Cameroon, and was established in October 1961. East
Cameroon, a former French administered trust territory, gained indepen-
dence in 1960 as the Republic of Cameroon. Wqest Cameroon, the former
United Kingdom trust territory of Southern Cameroons, joined the newvly
independent Republic of Cameroon as a result of a plebiscite in 1961.
The Federal Republic of Cameroon joined the Bank in 1963 and IDA in 196!.
In July 196b, the Executive Directors approved two Bank technical
assistance grants of $200,000 and $100,000 (later increased by $20,500)
for feasibility studies of road and agricultural projects. The proposed
loan and credit would be the first lending operation of the World Bank
group in Cameroon. Also under consideration is a project preparation
credit of about $0.5 million for the final engineering of a road project.
3.        In July 1965, the Federal Government of Cameroon asked the Bank
and the Association to help finance part of the development program of
Camdev, a statutory corporation established in the West Cameroon to own
and operate plantations. At about the same time the European Economic
Community (EEC) had under consideration an oil palm plantation that would
also be developed by Camdev. However, the EEC proposed to treat its part
of the program independently from the rest of Camdev's development program
and to isolate it financially. After discussion initiated by the Bank
and IDA with the EEC, Camdev and the Cameroon Government, it was agreed
that Camdev's development should be treated for all practical purposes
as a single program to be financed by the Bank, IDA and the EEC under
arrangements to coordinate administration.



- 2 -
18.       A Bank and IDA mission appraised the project in November/December
1965. Negotiations for the proposed Bank loan and IDA credit were completed
in Washington on December 16, 1966. The Government of Cameroon was repre-
sented by a delegation headed by the Ambassador in Washington. Camdev was
represented by Mr. Mukete, Chairman of the Corporation.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED FINANCING
5. Bank loan:
Borrower:              Cameroons Development Corporation.
Guarantor:            Federal Republic of Cameroon.
Amount:               Equivalent, in various currencies, to $7
million.
Purpose:              To help finance a planting program in lWest
Cameroon.
Amortization:         In L4 semi-annual installments commencing on
January 1, 1976.
Interest rate:        6%.
Commitment charge:    3/8 of 1% per annum.
Disbursement:         Except for disbursements on account of
commitment and interest charges, the Bank
loan would be drawn down only after the IDA
credit had been fully disbursed, i.e.
between 1971 and 197h.
6. IDA credit:
Borrower:              The Federal Republic of Cameroon.
Beneficiary:           Cameroons Development Corporation.
Amount:                Equivalent, in various currencies, to $11
million.
Purpose:              To help finance a planting program in West
Cameroon.



- 3 -
Amortization:         In semi-annual installments of 1/2 of 1%
of the principal amount beginning July 1,
1977 and 1-1/2% of the principal amount
beginning July 1, 1987, the last payment
to be made on January 1, 2017.
Service charge:       3/L of 1% per annum.
Relending terms:       To be made available to Camdev in the form
of equity.
Disbursement:          The IDA credit would be disbursed between
1967 'and 1971.
7. The EEC loan
The EEC loan of $6.h million would be for a term of 22 years
including 10 years of grace, at an interest rate of 2%, and would be made
to the Federal Government, which would relend the proceeds to Camdev on
the same terms. The loan was approved by the EEC Commnision on Niarch 2,
1967.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An Appraisal Report (TO5L,8b) is attached.  Camdev was established
in 19L6 as a statutory corporation to take over the operation of former
German-owned estates under a lease contract with the government of the
Trust Territory and is the largest single enterprise in West Cameroon.
Throughout its life Camdev has been plagued by financial problems resulting
from a weak financial structure. Until 1959, with the exception of certain
amounts borrowed from the Nigerian government, Camdev had to finance its
expansion out of earnings. In 1960 a management contract was signed with
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), which thereupon made a
£1.0 million loan to Camdev for future development and undertook to invest
a further £2.0 million if and when the Corporation was reconstituted as a
joint stock company. WJhen West Cameroon became part of the Federal Republic,
CDC agreed to continue as managing agent but it was no longer possible for
CDC to commit new funds because the Federal Republic was not within the
Commonwealth.  Camdev's outstanding indebtedness to the Nigerian government
was split, with $2.8 million now owed to the government of Nigeria and
$2.1 million to West Cjmeroon. In 1963, Camdev borrowed $1.1 million from
the Banque Camerounaise de D6veloppement.
9.        In this report the term "program!" is applied to all the planting
and other developments to be carried out during 1967-197h, to which the
Bank and IDA and the EEC financing is to be applied, and to the work
thereafter necessary to complete it.   The term "project" refers to the



- 4 -
work to be financed by the Bank and IDA.
10.       The proposed program is based principally on oil palm, Camdev's
most profitable crop, but it includes planting or replanting of rubber,
tea and pepper, and also includes work on existing immature plantings
and provision for processing and other facilities. It would expand Camdev's
plantations from 22,LCO ha to 33,100 ha. The new investment is expected
to yield a rate of return of about 11 to 16%, depending on the valuation
placed on labor costs, as well as substantial indirect benefits. Caridev
employs a labor force of about 12,000, for whom there are few other employ-
ment opportunities and supplies about 30% of West Cameroon's exports. The
proposed program would increase employment and, by the late 1970's, would
double Camdev's contribution to exports. Its success is therefore crucial
for the economy of Cameroon.
11.       Camdev's total financial requirements during the period of dis-
bursement of the loan and credit (1967-197L) are estimated at US $31 million,
of which development costs amount to $25 million and the balance consists
of increases in working capital and interest and other charges on the pro-
posed Bank and EEC loans. An additional US $4 million will be required after
1974 to provide processing equipment and to bring immature areas into pro-
duction, raising the total development cost of the program to US $29 million
and total financial requirements to US $35 million. These requirements
would be met as follows :
In million dollars
IDA credit (contributed by the
government as equity)                     11.0
Bank loan                                    7.0
EEC loan                                     6.4
Cash generated from operations
- during disbursement period 6.6
- after 1974                  h.0 1o.6
Total           35.0
12.       The project to which Bank/IDA financing would be applied comprises
all of Camdev's planting program except for the 14,00 ha planting financed
by the EEC, the cost of which is estimated at $7 million. Total capital
cost of the project is estimated at $22 million of which the foreign cost
is estimated at about 50%. Procurement of machinery, materials and equip-
ment for the project would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
13.       An inherent feature of plantation projects is that the crops
to be planted do not reach full production, and thus do not yield a
reasonable return on the capital invested for a long period. The expen-
ditures on the project in the years 1967-1971 consist mainly of new



plantings. Although these plantings will start coming into maturity
between 1971 and 197h, substantial expenditures will be required on
bringing the later plantings to maturity and constructing factories
required for processing. The planting phase offers no economic return
in itself unless areas are brought to full maturity and processing faci-
lities are provided and Camdev would not undertake the planting phase
without the assurance that satisfactory financing for the subsequent
stages of the development program is available. In these circumstances
it was necessary to provide financing at long term and to accept the need
for a long disbursement period.
1L.       It has been common ground between the Bank, IDA and the EEC
that new financing should be conditional on, and contribute to, a basic
strengthening of Camdev's financial structure. Upon thdr request, the
Federal and West Cameroon governments have reorganized the finances of
Camdev involving the conversion into equity of the $2.1 million due to
West Cameroon. The debt to Nigeria is disputed by Cameroon and no interest
has been paid since March 1964. Although discussions have been held
between the two governments a solution has not yet been reached and further
talks are envisaged. In these circumstances, the Bank has obtained an
undertaking from the Federal Government of Cameroon that it would meet
any payment to be made by Camdev on account of the debt to Nigeria.
15.       As a result of the reorganization, Camdev's capitalization would
be approxirnately as follows
Capital                                  After reorganization   In 197h
(in million $)
Capital and Reserves
(as of December 31, 1966)                     1.8              1.8
Conversion of Wlest Cameroon loan               2.1             2.1
Proceeds of IDA credit                                         11.0
Earned Surplus                                  _.b
Total            3.9             15.3
Long term debt
CDC loan                                 2.8
Banque Camerounaise de
Developpement                           1.1   3.9      3.9
Less repayments                                  1.6      2.3
IBRD loan                                        -              7
EEC loan                                        _               6.L
Total long term debt
- excluding Nigerian loan              3.9             15.7
- including Nigerian loan              6.7             18.5



- 6 -
16.       Ilatters relating to the rrianageTnent of Camdev and to security
arrangements were discussed with the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) whose loan to Camdev was secured by a floating charge on all fixed and
current assets of Camdev. In order to clear the way for Bank lending, CDC
has agreed to waive its prior charge, taking in its place a Federal govern-
ment guarantee making the CLC loan rank pari passu with the proposed Bank
and EEC loans.
17.       As involved negotiations between the lenders and with Camdev and
the government took a considerable amount of time, it was necessary for
Camdev to start spending on the program in order to avoid deferring it for
another year. In these circumstances the draft credit agreement provides
for retroactive financing of Camdev's development expenditures from January
1, 1967.
PART IV - THE ECOCOMY
18.       A report on The Economy of the Federal Republic of Cameroon,
lNo. AF-48b, dated November 3, 1966, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 23, 1966, (R66-155). The conclusions of the report
remain valid.
19.       Cameroon has made a commendable development effort in the years
since independence while attempting the difficult task of welding two
disparate regions into a working federation. Development planning and
the administration have been improved. The Government's management of
fiscal and economic affairs generally has been good.
20.       Since 1959 real income has increased by around 5% annually,
despite a deterioration in the terms of trade.   Agricultural output, which
is the main source of cash income to the population, increased in volume
at an annual rate of about 6.5%, although, due to the decline in export
prices, the overall increase in money terms was about half of this. From
a relatively small base, the volume of industrial output increased by
around 15% per year, on the average, partly because of a large aluminum
development, but also because of a rapid growth of a number of smaller
enterprises.
21.       Total investment has averaged around ten percent of GDP in recent
years, with the private sector accounting for about two-thirds of this.
The private sector has also provided the bulk of domestic savings. Hiowever,
the Government's contribution to savings has been growing significantly as
the result of a shift from a negative to a positive position in the
Government's current finance. This has been achieved mainly by a rapid
growth of current revenues - from 9 percent of GDP in 1959 to 15 percent
in 1965/66.



22.       It should be possible for the Cameroons to continue to expand its
real income by around 4 to 5 percent annually but this will be more
difficult than in the past. Most of the easy investment opportunities have
already been exploited, and for some time hence it is likely that the
investment will have to rise relative to the growth in output. Moreover,
a further deterioration in the terms of trade seems probable. World prices
for a number of Cameroon's major exports (cocoa, coffee, bananas, rubber,
cotton, groundnuts) may well decline further in the next several years, and
in addition the Cameroon is in the process of losing its preferred position
in the French market. Substantial efforts are being made to diversify
agricultural and other economic resources. The Cameroon Development
Corporation (CAMDEV) program is one of the first steps towards expansion
of oil palm, tea and other crops whose prospects are more promising than
Cameroon's traditional export crops. However, it will talce some time
before the full impact of these new developments on the balance of payments
of Cameroon will be felt. On this basis, export growth is expected to be
around 3 percent a year in estimated current prices between now and 1970.
At the same time imports will have to go up by 5 or 6 percent annually to
permit the growth of investment which appears desirable. This will lead to
a need for increasing capital inflow.
23.       The Governments Five Year Plan (1966/67-1970/71) calls for
expenditures totaling CFAF 165 billion and reflects a shift in emphasis
from infrastructure to productive sectors. The mission estimates that a
lower level of expenditure, CFAF 135 billion, would be administratively
feasible. Even for this reduced level of expenditure, it is estimated that
external capital requirements would come to an average of about CFAF
12 billion or $48 million annually, as compared with a gross inflow of
around $23 million in 1965/66.
24.       Because a large share of past capital inflow was in the form of
grants, external indebtedness is still relatively low, with debt service
amounting to only about 3 percent of exports. Thus, there is probably a
modest scope for conventional borrowing in the next several years.
However, given the prospects for slow export growth the Cameroon would have
a serious debt service problem in the 1970's if most of its capital require-
ments had to be obtained on conventional borrowing terms. Therefore, it
would be prudent for the Cameroon to seek a substantial part of its capital
inflow on concessionary terms for the next several years.
25.       IIoreover, for the public sector program, despite the favorable
improvement in the budgetary position and the efforts made to mobilize
domestic resources for deve]opment, total public savings are unlikely to
finance more than 25% of the volume of public investment expected under the
second five-year development plan. Thus, on average, 75% of public sector
projects, including a substantial part of local costs, will require
financing from abroad.



- 8 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUM4ENTS AND AUTHORITY
26.       Drafts are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately
of : (i) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and Camdev; (ii) the Guarantee
Agreement between the Federal Republic of Cameroon and the Bank; (iii) the
Development Credit Agreement between the Federal Republic of Cameroon and
the Association; and (iv) the Project Agreement between the Association and
Camdev.
27.       The Reports of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
) (iii) of the Articles of  Agreement of the Bank, and of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are also being distributed separately.
28.       The following features of the Loan, Guarantee, Credit and Project
Agreements are of particular interest :
(a) Section 2.01 of the Loan Agreement provides that no w^Tithdrawals
shall be made on account of expenditures for the Project until
the amount of the Credit shall have been fully withdrawn.
(b) Pursuant to Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement, Camdev will
not, until December 31, 1975, incur any debt over one year
without the prior approval of the Bank. Thereafter, debt
could not be incurred if the consolidated debt of Camdev and
its subsidiaries (if any) then incurred and outstanding would
be greater than the consolidated unimpaired capital and accumu-
lated surplus of Camdev and   its subsidiaries.
(c) Section 5.o8 requires Camdev to employ in all its senior
management positions experienced and qualified persons and
provides that the terms of any management agreements shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) Until December 31, 1975, no payment (other than payTents due
on account of taxes or under Camdev's Lease) can, without the
Bank's agreement, be made by Camdev to Cameroon or the Fede-
rated State of West Cameroon.
(e) The effectiveness of the Loan and Credit Agreements are
conditional on each other. Additional conditions of effective-
ness include the adoption by the Commission of the EEC of the
resolution approving the EEC loan and the conclusion by
Cameroon and Camdev of arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
regarding exemption from import taxes until December 31, 1975,
of goods imported by Camdev for the carrying out of the
Program (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 of
the Credit Agreement).



-9-
(f) Additional events of default (Section 6.02 of the Loan
Agreement and Section 5.02 of the Credit Agreement) would
give the Bank and the Association the right to suspend or
premature, the Loan and tne Credit if certain events occurred,
including rescission of the resolution of the EEC Commission
approving the EEC loan, suspension, termination or accelera-
tion of the EEC loan and the CDC loan, of if the legislation
defining the status of Camdev were amended or repealed without
the approval of the Bank.
(g) Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement incorporates by reference
certain pertinent covenants contained in the Loan Agreement.
(h) The full performance guarantee obligation of Cameroon and
Cameroon's undertaking to provide Camdev with funds if
necessary (Sections 2.01 and 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement)
find their counterpart in the Credit Agreement (Sections !.Ol
and 4.02).
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WiITF ARTICLES OF AGREEIENT
29.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would corply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
30.        I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution.
RESOLUTION No._
Approval of Loan to Cameroons Development Corporation in an
amount equivalent to US $7,000,000 to be guaranteed by the
Federal Republic of Cameroon.
RESOLVED :
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Cameroons Development Cor-
poration to be guaranteed by the Federal Republic of Cameroon, in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to seven million United States dollars
(US $7,000,000), to mature on and prior to July 1, 1997, to bear interest
at the rate of six per cent (6%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and



- 10 -
conditions set forth in the forr' of Loan Agreement (Carndev Project)
beti-een the Bank and Careroons Development Corporation, and the forn
of Guarantee Agreement (Camdev Project) between the Federal Republic of
Cameroon and the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
RESOLUTION No.
Approval of a Development Credit to the Federal Republic
of Cameroon (Camdev Project) in an amount equivalent to
US $11,000,000.
RESOLVED :
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Federal Republic of Cameroon in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000), to mature on and prior to
January 1, 2017, to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/t of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement (Camdev
Project) between the Federal Republic of Cameroon and the Association
and the form of Project Agreement (Camdev Project) between the Association
and Cameroons Development Corporation, which have been presented at this
meeting.
Washington, D.C.                                          George D. Woods
March 13, 1967                                               President



