CREDIT NUMBER 100 CM
Project Agreement
(CAMDEV Project)
BETWEEN
4           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
CAMEROONS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
DATED MARCH 28, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 100 CM
Project Agreement
(CAMDEV Project)
BETWEEN
*           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
CAMEROONS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
DATED MARCH 28, 1967


﻿Jkvir~d Agm~urut
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 1967, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOcIATIoN (hereinafter
called the Association) and the CAMEROONS DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION (hereinafter called the Corporation).
WHEREAS on the basis of the considerations described in
the Recitals to the agreement of even date herewith (here-
inafter called the Loan Agreement) between the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (here-
inafter called the Bank) and the Corporation, the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Federal Repub-
lic of Cameroon (hereinafter called Cameroon) a develop-
ment credit in various currencies equivalent to eleven mil-
lion dollars ($11,000,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in a development credit agreement (hereinafter called
the Development Credit Agreement) of even date herewith
between Cameroon and the Association, but only on con-
dition that the Corporation agree to undertake certain
obligations to the Association as hereinafter in this Proj-
ect Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS the Corporation, in consideration of the fore-
going has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
folJ3ws:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several


﻿4
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Development
Credit Agreement and in the Regulations (as so defined)
shall have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) Sections 3.01, 3.02, 5.01, 5.02, 5.03,
5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.08, 5.09, 5.10, 5.11, and 5.12 of the
Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Project
Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein; provided, however, that (i) all refer-
ences to the Bank in such Sections or in any of them shall
be deemed to be references to the Association, and (ii) all
references to the Loan in such Sections or in any of them
shall be deemed to be references to the Credit.
(b) So long as any part of the Loan or the Bonds exe-
cuted pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of the Loan
Agreement shall remain outstan(ling and unpaid, all action
taken, including approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to
the Sections of the Loan Agreement enumerated in the fore-
going paragraph shall be deened to be taken or given in
the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Asso-
ciation; and all information furnished by the Corporation to
the Bank pursuant to the provisions of such Sections shall
be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the
Association.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTIoN 3.01. (a) This Project Agreement shall come
into force and effect on the Effective Date.
(b) If pursuant to Section 6.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement, the Development Credit Agreenient shall be


﻿5
terminated, this Project Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall also terminate and the Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Corporation thereof.
SECTION 3.02. This Project Agreement shall terminate
and the obligations of the parties hereunder shall cease and
determine on the date when the Loan Agreement or the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in accord-
ance with their respective terms, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given under this Project Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Proj-
ect Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or
at such other address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
(a) For the Corporation:
Canieroons Development Corporation
Bota, Victoria
Federal Republic of Cameroon
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Deveam
Bota, Victoria
Federal Republic of Cameroon
Telex: DOUALA 242


﻿6
(b) For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the Cor-
poration may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the
Board or such other person or persons as he shall desig-
nate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Corporation shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority ol the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Corporation, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Corporation pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Project Agreement or the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
SECTION 4.04. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused
this Project Agreement to be signed in their respective
names by their representatives thereunto duly authorized


﻿7
and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
CAMEROONS DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
By /s/ V. E. MTKETE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AssOCIATION
By /s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President


