CREDIT NUMBER 100 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(CAMDEV Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 28, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 100 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(CAMDEV Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 28, 1967


﻿AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 1967, between FED-
ERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called Cameroon)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
WHEREAS on the basis of the considerations described in
the Racitals to the agreement of even date herewith (here-
inafter called the Loan Agreement) between the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (here-
inafter called the Bank) and the Cameroons Development
Corporation (hereinafter called the Corporation), the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make a credit to Cameroon in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million
dollars ($11,000,000) on the terms and conditions herein-
after set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 of the Association dated June 1, 1961,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifica-
tions thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1
as so modified being hereinafter called the Regulations):
(a) The term "Cameroon" is substituted for the term
"Borrower" wherever used in the Regulations.
(b) The second sentence of Section 2.02 is amended by
deleting the words "at the same rate" and substituting


﻿4
therefor the words "at the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2%) per annum".
(c) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is to
be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit (re
to be Withdrawn.
(a) Except as Cameroon and the Association shall other-
wise agree, the cost of goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit shall be paid in the respective
currencies of the countries from which such goods
are acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn from
the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures for goods pro-
duced in (including services supplied from)
the territories of Cameroon, in such currency
or currencies as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which
the cost of goods financed out of such pro-
ceeds has been paid or is payable.
(c) Cameroon and the Association may from time to
time agree on any other currency in which with-
drawals shall be made.''
(d) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03 as
follows:
"Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Witfhdrawal
with Other Currency. If withdrawal shall be made in any
currency which the Association shall have purchased
with another currency for the purpose of such with-
drawal, the portion of the Credit so withdrawn shall be


﻿0
5
deemed to have been withdrawn from the Credit Account
in such other currency for the purposes of Section 3.03."
(e) Section 3.04 is re-numbered Section 3.05.
(f) Section 4.01 is deleted.
(g) The words "or the Project Agreement" are inserted
in Section 6.02 after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement".
(h) Section 8.04 is deleted.
(i) Paragraph 9 of Section 9.01 is deleted and the follow-
ing paragraph is substituted therefor:
"9. The term "Project" means the project for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Loan Agreement
and as the description thereof shall be amended from
time to time by agreement between Cameroon, the Bank,
the Association and the Corporation."
SECTION 1.02. Except where the context otherwise re-
quires, the terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the
same meanings as in such Loan Agreement wherever used
in this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to Cameroon, on the terms and conditions in this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a develop-
ment credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count on its books in the name of Cameroon and shall credit
to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit. Cameroon
shall be entitled, subject to the provisions of this Develop-


﻿6
ment Credit Agreement, to withdraw from the Credit
Account:
(a) such amounts as shall have been expended, or, if the
Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be re-
quired to meet payments, for the reasonable foreign cur-
rency cost of goods to be financed under this Agreement;
and
(b) the equivalent of a percentage or percentages to be
established from time to time by agreement between
Cameroon and the Association of such amounts as shall
have been expended for the reasonable cost of goods to be
financed under this Agreement and not included in the
foregoing;
provided, however, that except as shall be otherwise agreed
between Cameroon and the Association, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of (i) expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and (ii) expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in (including services
supplied from) such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Cameroon shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.04. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.05. Cameroon shall repay the principal of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semiannual
instalments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing July 1, 1977, and ending January 1, 2017, each
instalment to and including the instalment payable on
January 1, 1987, to be one half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such priicipal amount, and each instalment thereafter
to be one and one-half (1 %) of such principal amount.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. Cameroon shall cause the proceeds of the
Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to the Loan Agreement. Cameroon and the Associa-
tion shall determine by agreement, subject to modification
by further agreement between them: (a) on the basis of
annual reviews of the progress of the Program, the specific
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
and (b) the methods and procedures for the procurement
of such goods.
SECTION 3.02. Except as Cameroon and the Association
shall otherwise agree, Cameroon shall cause all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used in the
territories of Cameroon exclusively in the carrying out of
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. Without limitation or restriction upon
any of the other covenants on its part in this Agreement
contained, Cameroon hereby unconditionally guarantees
punctual performance of all the covenants and agreements
of the Corporation as set forth in the Project Agreement.
SECTION 4.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, Cameroon
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Corporation will
be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required
for carrying out the Program, to make arrangements, satis-
factory to the Association, promptly to provide the Cor-
poration or cause the Corporation to be provided with such
funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿8
SECTION 4.03. Cameroon shall make available to the
Corporation the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent
thereof and any amount withdrawn from the Credit Ac-
count or the equivalent thereof shall be treated as part of
the Corporation's capital.
SECTION 4.04. Cameroon shall not take, cause or permit
to be taken, any action to amend the Ordinance, or adopt
or amend any decrees or regulations pursuant thereto, or
in implementation thereof, except after consultation with
the Association.
SECTION 4.05. (a) Cameroon and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall fur-
nish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the general status of the Credit. On
the part of Cameroon, such information shall include infor-
mation with respect to financial and economic conditions
in the territories of Cameroon and the international balance
of payments position of Cameroon.
(b) Cameroon and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of tha Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. Cameroon shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit or the maintenance
of the service thereof.
(c) Cameroon shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of Cameroon for purposes re-
lated to the Credit.
SECTION 4.06. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free


﻿9
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions imposed
under the laws of Cameroon or laws in effect in its terri-
tories.
SECTION 4.07. This Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of Cameroon or laws in
effect in its territories on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(c) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur, or (ii) if
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a
period of thirty days, or (iii) if any event specified in para-
graph (b) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations or in para-
graphs (a), (d), (e) or (g) of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to Cameroon, then at any subsequent time during
the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may
declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be
due and payable immediately, and upon any such declara-
tion such principal shall become due and payable immedi-
ately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. Pursuant to paragraph (j) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations, the following are specified as
additional events for the purposes of said Section:
(a) Subject to the provision of paragraph (c) of this
Section the EEC Loan Agreement, the CDC Loan Agree-
ment, the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement or the
Lease shall have been terminated (otherwise than in accord-


﻿10
ance with the terms thereof), or in any material respect
amended, suspended, waived or assigned without the prior
approval of the Association;
(b) Any event shall have occurred which shall have
operated to suspend the right of Cameroon or the Cor-
poration, respectively, to withdraw amounts under the EEC
Loan Agreement or the Loan Agreement, respectively;
(c) The EEC, the CDC, the Bank or any other creditor,
respectively, shall, in accordance with the terms of the
EEC Loan Agreement, the CDC Loan Agreement, the
Loan Agreement or any other loan or credit agreement,
respectively, demand payment from Cameroon or the Cor-
poration, as the case may be, of moneys lent or made avail-
able to the Corporation prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(d) A deia-lt shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement of Cameroon or the Corpora-
tion, as the case may be, under the Loan Agreement, the
Guarantee Agreement or the Project Agreement;
(e) The Ordinance shall have been amended, suspended,
terminated or repealed without the approval of the Asso-
ciation;
(f) Failure by Cameroon to fulfill an obligation to make
payment of principal or interest or any other payment
required under the Development Credit Agreement or
under any other development credit agreement between
Cameroon and the Association or under any loan agree-
ment or guarantee agreement between Cameroon and the
Bank or under any bond delivered pursuant to any such
agreement even though such payment has been made by
other person;
(g) The resolution of the Commission of the EEC ap-
proving the EEC Loan shall have been rescinded or
amended in any material respect.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01(b) of the Regulations:
(a) That the execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of the Corporation shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b) That the Loan Agreement shall have become effective
in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.02. The folIowing are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 8.02(b) of the Regu-
lations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely: that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Corporation; that
all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor have
been duly and validly performed or given; and, that such
Project Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obliga-
tion of the Corporation in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by June 15,
1967, this Development Credit Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association, after consideration of the reasons for the
delay, establishes a later date for purposes of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify Cameroon and the
Corporation of such later date.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Corporation under Sections 4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 of this
Agreement shall forthwith terminate.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1972,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed be-
tween Cameroon and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For Cameroon:
Ministere des Affaires Economiques
et du Plan
Yaound6
Federal Republic of Cameroon
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Minae Plan
Yaound6
Federal Republic of Cameroon
For the Association:
International Development Association
181.8 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 7.03. The Ministre des Affaires Economiques
et du Plan of Cameroon is designated for the purposes of
Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿13
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By   /s/ D. MASUKE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AsSOCIATION
By   /s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President


