Dov== of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
Reput No. 12036
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF FIJI
ROAD UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN 2871-FIJ)
JUNE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12036
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department 3
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Republic of Fiji
Road Upgrading Project - Loan 28n-FIJ
CURQENCY EQOUVALENTS
Currency Unit - Fijian Dollar (F$)
US$1   -   F$1.49 (at completion - June 30,1992)
US$1   =   F$1.16 (at appraisal)
WEIGHTS AND  ;SR
1 meter (m)                   = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)         = 10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (sq kn)    = 0.4 square miles (sq mi)
, hecte (ha)                  = 2.47acres (ac)
I kilogram (kg)               = 2.2046 pounds (bs)
1 metric ton (mt)             = 2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIAIONS AND ACRON
DEO      - Divisional Engineer's Office
MCrW   - Ministry of Communications, Transport and Works
MIPL    - Ministry of Infrastrcture and Public Utilities
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding
IBRED    - Interational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LCB      - Loca Competitive Bidding
PCR      - Project Completion Report
PMU      - Project Management Unit
PPAR    - Project Performance Audit Report
PWD      - Public Works Department
SAR      - Staff Appraisal Report
VOC      - Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd      - vehices per day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D., 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT,   Project Completion Report on Fiji Road Upgrading Prrject
(Loan 2871-FIJ)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Fiji - Road Upgrading
Project (Loan 2871-FIJ)" prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Country Department 3, of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office and the
Infrastructure Division of the Asia Technical Department, with the Borrower
providing Part I2.
Because  of  political  upheavals,  the  start-up  of  project
implementation was somewhat delayed. Subsequently, however, implementation of
the road upgrading generally vent well and the closure of the loan had only to
be postponed by six months. The quantity and quality of the civil works were
higher than expected at appraisal; the re-estimated economic rate of return was
24% (at appraisal:222).
Also as a result of the political upheavals, the implementing agency
lost a considerable number of its staff. This in turn affected the institutional
development impact of the project, which was less than expected, as the
implementing agency was not able to make all the necessary counterpart staff
available to work with the technical assistance personnel provided under the
project. Moreover, the technical assistance personnel had to assume line rather
than advisory functions to make up for the shortage of local staff.   This
resulted in considerable on-the-job training of local field staff. The follow-on
project, the Second Road Upgrading Project, continues the institution building
efforts of its predecessor.
Overall,  the  project's  outcome  is  rated  satisfactory,  its
sustainability likely and its institutional impact partial.
The PCR is of good quality:   clear, cogent and to the point.
However, documentation for the cost benefit analysis is missing. No audit of the
project is planned.
Attachment
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Uorld Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REMLICOFE0
ROAD UPGRAING PROU= - LOAN 2871-RJ
ERlQ=QI COLEN REPOQR
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ....................................................   ii
Evaluation Summary.                                                                                 ii
L        PartI - Project Review from Bankrs Persctive
1.    Project Identity.................................................1
2.                           ......Backgr.1
3.    Proect Objecves and   esip                  .................................................2
4.    Project Design and Organization2.....................                    .         .2
5.    Project .I.plementation.................-.-.-3-.-............3
6.    ProjectResults                            .................................................5
7.  Project Sustainability ................6
8.    IDA Performance ..................................................6
9.    Borrower Perfomance .................................................7
10. Project Relationship.7 ..........................................                                 7
11. Consulting Services and Contractors.7
12 Project Documentation and Data                                      .8
IL       PartI I - Project Review  from  Borrowers Perspective ....................................9
m        Part Ell - Summary of Statistical Data
Table 1:           Related Bank Loans and/or IDA Credits ....................................    12
Table 2:           Project Timetable .............................................                   13
Table 3:           Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Disbursements .14
B. Disbursents by Category ......................               -       .       ..  14
Table 4:           ProjectImplementation ...............1-.-.------.-----------------......    i5
Table 5:           Project Costs and Fmancing
A. ProjectCosts ........... - - - .                                              . 16
B. Project Financing .16
Table 6:           Project Results
A. Economic Impact .............. ... . ...  17
B.   Studies .............................................                             17
Table 7:           Status of Covenants .............................................                 18
Table &            Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs .............           -...... 19
B. Missions .19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-it -
RQAD    GRADN  PRO=CT - LOAN 2171-FIT
PROI CDQlilPlREEIt
i REFLAC
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Road Upgrading Project in the
Republic of Fi, for which IBRD Loan 2871-EU4 in the amount of US$23.4 million was approved on
3 September 1987. The loan was dosed on 31 December 1991, after being granted an extersion of
six months. The loan was fully disbursed. the final disbursement being mnade on 16 January 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
Department 3 of the East Asia and Pacific Region (EA3IN) and the Infastructure Division of the
Asia Tecmical Department (ASTIN) (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III), and by the
Borrower (Part II), and is based, Inter alia, on the Asian Development Banles (ADB) Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR); the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) President's
Memorandum; the Loan Agreement (DCA); supervision reports the Borrower's own records,
project completion report and monthly progress reports; correspondence between IBRD and the
Borrower; and intenal IBRD memoranda.



-iii-
ROAD UPGRADING  RO= - LOAN 2=1-FI
MU=  COZN RIEWE
EYALUAflQ1iSUMMARX
The aim of the Road Upgrading Project was to support the Government's road subsector
strategy of upgrading and rehabilitation of priority road segments and selective construction of
rural roads in areas with the greatest development potentiaL The main objectives were to:
(a)   upgade and rehabilitate existing roads and construct a limited number of new
roads as described below;
(b)   strengthen  s  institutional capacity in road subsector management, especially
in regard to road maintenance and project implementation; and
(c)   improve cost effectiveness in engineering design, construction standards and
methods.
To accomplish these objectives the project components Included:
(a)  road mg  ding -107.4 km consisting of three sections of main roads (40.6 kin) and
seven sections of secondary roads (66.8 ki) which were nrow gravel roads In
badly deteriorated condition and carrying considerable traffic;
(b)   procurem nt of road construction equipment - required to help PWD carry out by
force account the upgrading of 88.9 kn of the 107.4 km;
(c) provision of consultancy services - to assist PWD In the preparation of the detailed
engineering of the road and bridge works and the supervision of the construction of
these works; and
(d)   provision of technical assistance to PWD - for the implementation and monitoring
of the road works to be arried by force account, for strengthening its organization
in planning, programming, implementing and cost monitoring of road maintenance
operations, and for preparing a cost comparison study for works carried out by
force account and by contract.
The original Road Upgrading Project was appraised jointly by IBRD and ADB in May 1986.
At negotiations, the Govremment and ADB could not agree on terms for the ADB part of the loan.
The project was reduced in scope, reappraised in February 1987, and financed solely by IBRD and
the Governent. The Loan was aproved on September 3,1987 and became effective on Febuary
2, 1988. The IBRD Loan (Ln 2871-FJ) for the project amounted to US$23.4 million. The Loan was
flly disbused and the account closed on January 16, 1992
The project made a good start, but because of a delay to loan effectiveness caused by
political upheavals in 1987, hiring of conswltants and procurement of equipment had to be halted
until the situation was dlear. As a result, orders for equipment could not be placed until Febnrury
1988 and the supervision personnel did not arrive until mid-1988. The equipment, which was a
viiol ingredient for the successful Implementation of the force account work, arrived more than
one year late and the ICB contrct was also delayed by a year.
Once started, the road works progressed well and the quality of work was good, both in
the ICB contract and the force account work The ICB contract was awarded to a foreign
contractor which had put in a low tender, 35% below the engieer's estimate, and there was some



- iv -
doubt that the company would be able to complete the contract for the amount tendered, but
eventually It did. All vworks overran the original implementation schedule because of the delayed
start and because there were still some 180 man-months of design work to be done on the force
account works when the project started. The Borrower was unable to provide all the counterpart
staff for the consultants hired under the project because many of the PWD staff left the country
after the political events of 1987.
Because of the 17.5% and 15.25% devaluations of the Fijian Dollar in 1987, there were some
savings in the loan proceeds which were applied to upgrading an additional 13.8 km of roads,
maldng a total of 121.2 kin, and purchasing additionaf construction equipment. Work finished
about one year late, which caused the six-month extension to the loan closing date.
The project achieved its objectives except, because of staff constraints in PWD, for the study
and report comparing the costs of force account work with those of contracted work. This was
probably Just as well because the study, in order to be completely objective, should perhaps be
carried out by an independent consultant rather than by PWD. However, the fact that the final
costs of the ICB contract came out well below the initial estimate, has given a boost to the use of
contracting as a means of carrying out roadworke. This principle has been incorporated into the
Second Road Upgrading Project.
The post-project Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the all the road sections in the project
was estmted to be a very satisfactory 24%, which is an improvement over the 22% estimated at
appraisaL This good result was achieved because traffic levels on the roads upgraded under the
project ire   !by rates which varied between 24% and 14.5% per annum over the period 1985-
1992, with an average of 5.8%, compared with the 2% used in the SAX This figure of 5.8%
corresponds closely to the rate of increase in vehicle registrations over the last few years In order
to be conservative, the rates of increase of t:afflc for the post project evaluation of ERR for each
road section were assumed to be lower than the rates emerging from the traffic counts. On the
other hand, the improvement in the ERR was adversely affected by construction costs in terms of
1985 dollars, which increased from a forecast at appraisal of F$209,200 per kIn to an actual cost of
F$236,000 per km over the period of the project, an increase of 12.8%. From the limited
information available, it would appear that the roughnesses of the finished roads are lower than
forecast at appraisal and pavement strengths are higher, both of these were the result of tight
quality control, frequent testing, use of appropriate plant and close supervision, all of which
engendered good workmanship during construction. lTese two additional factors, which would
have reduced vehicle operating and road maintenance costs, thereby increasing the net benefits
and improving the ERR, have not been taken into account in the evaluation.
It Is expected that the economic benefits generated by the project road works will be
sustained in view of th good quality of construction and the higher than forecast traffic levels.
The various management tools introduced during the project are now in use within the
PWD organisation. In order that the benefits of these may be sustained, follow-up components to
strengthen their use have been incorporated into the Second Road Upgrading Project
The main risk to the sustahnability of the project benefits is that no provisions are made for
routine and periodic maintenance in future years. This risk has been addressed by the ongoing
and upcoming road maintenance and upgrading projects financed by ADB and the Bank, whih
have taclded the bacidog of maintenance and are aiming to put in place the institutional changes
This was overall a successful project, mucli of the credit for which must go to the
consultants who staffed the PMU and supervised the ICB works. The difficulties caused by the



-v -
wholesale departure of PWD staff after the events of 1987 could have brought the project to a halt,
or, at best, delayed it for much longer than was the case. Quality was good because supervision
and mangement were tight.
The main lessons leaned by the Bank have been: (a) supervision missions should have
been mounted more regularly; (b) their composition should have been stronger in view of their
infrequency; and (c) the Bank should respond faster to requests from the Borrower.
The main lessons learned by the Borrower were: (a) the PMU was crucial to the successful
outcome of the project and should be included In future projects; (b) the vital necessity for a well-
planned project cost monitoring system; (c) carying out road construction works by contract can
bi cost £ffectiveif well planned, properly packaged and carefully controlled and supervised; (d)
the need to develop a strategic planning capability; (e) the need for procurement procedures to be
streamlined and future documents to !Je more carefuly designed to achieve better reliability and
more standardstion of the equipment fleet; and (f) before future projects, the current manpwer
needs should be careully evaluated to determine whether a component providing further
structured trining should 'be incorporated.



lRlENBLICJ) EElI
K=A  UPG-RADNC PROECT - LOAN 2871:M
lWO    coMPLKaIOREIPRT
PART L ERXOREIEW ERM DAMS PER.SCIIVl
1. 
- Project Nam e ............. Road Ur'7ruding Project
-  Loan No ............. 2871-FlJ
-  Loan Amount   .      ............ US$24.3 million
- RVPUnit ............. East Asia Region
- Country           .     .         Republic of Fiji
- Sector           . . Tr ansport
- Subsector   .     .    ............... Road
2. Bd
2.01 The Republic of Fii comprises 322 Islands, of whichi about 105 are inhabited. They cover a
total area of 18,320 sq km and are scattered over 150,000 sq kn of the south Pacific Ocean. The two
largest Islands, Vitl Levu and Vanua Levu respectively acccunt for 57 and 30 percent of the land
area and for 75 and 14 percent of 'he populatiL., which was about 700,000 in 1986. The population
is roughly equally divided between Indigenous Fipans and more recent immigrants of Indian
origin, nany of whom were originally brought to Fiji to work in the sugar plantations. The islands
are of volcanic origin, and the larger ones are generally mountainous, covered with rain forest, and
having narrow valeys and limited coastal pain  The capital, Suva, on the Island of Viti Levu, is
the country's uajor urban centre, accounting for more than 20% of the population in 1986.
2.02 The Fijian economy, while being basically agricultural, is more diversified than the
economies of other South Pacific developing countries. In 1986, agriculture accounted for about
24% of gross domestic product, and was dominated by sugar, which has long been the main source
of cash income and export earnings. Tourism and related industries have been gaining in
importance since the l960s and are increasingly contributing to export earnings. Government
development objectives emphasized the need for an effident tansport network to reduce tansport
costs, assit in the equitable distribution of development benefits, and promote tourism.
2.03 Fiji's road network of about 4,650 Iam, of which, in 1986, only 680 km were paved to
bituminous sandards, have generally kept up with increasing traffic levels near major towns and
on the main routes. Traffic levels on the busiest roads were estimated at over 1,000 vehicles per
day (vpd), but were much lower in nrual areas. From Independence in 1970 until 1986, under three
successive development plans, the Government's twin objectives of Improving access between
commercial centres and developing areas and of opening up new areas with the greatest
agricultural potential, had largely been achieved. However, the condition of most of the gravel
roads was poor and in the implementation of the road development program the following
techndcal and institutional shortcomings surfaced: (a) inadequate design and construction
sandards; (b) inefficient construction methods and supervision; (c) weak planning and monitoring
of maintenance; and (d) lnefficient maintenance operations. These shortcomings were mainly
related to the shortage of experienced staff in the Public Works Department (PWD) in the Ministry
of Counications, Transport and Works (MCIW) (now the Ministry of Infrasucture and Public
Utities (M)) and inadequate institutional arrangements. To alleviate these shortcomings the
PWD employed expatriate technical staff and undertook training programs for local staff with
considerable success.



2-
3.    Nd_          i   Do 
3.01    Ecj Obictim. The project was designed to support the Government's road subsector
strategy whch was focussed on the upgrading and rehabilitation of priority road segments and
selective construction of rural roads In areas with the greatest development potentiaL The
prindpal objectives of the project were to:
(a)   upgrade and rehabilitate existing roads and construct a limited number of new
roads as descibed below;
(b)   strengthen PWDYs institutional capacity in road subsector management, especdaUy
in regard to road maintenance and project Implementation; and
(c)  Improve cost effectiveness in engineering design, construction standards and
methods.
3.02  Eroiect Com-Pgnents. To accomplish these objectives the project components included:
(a)  road upgradng - 107.4 km consisting of three sections of main roads (40.6 kIn) and
seven sections of secondary roads (66.8 kn) which were narrow gravel roads in
badly deteriorated condition and amnying considerable traffic;
(b)   procurement of road construction equipment - required to help PWD cary out by
force account the upgrading of 88.9 kun of the 107.4 km
(c)   provision of consultanc services - to assist PWD in the preparation of the detailed
engineering of the road and bridge works and the supmision of the construction of
thse works; and
(d)   provsin of technkal assistace to FWD - for the implementation and monitoring of
the road works to be canied by force account, for strengthening its organization In
planning, programming, implementing and cost monitoring of road maintenance
operations, and for preparing a cost comparison study for works carried out by
force account and by contract.
4.01  This project was the frst road sector project for some years in which the Bank had been
involved. T.he First Highway Project (Loan 771-FI, which was completed in 1978, had not been
wholly successful and this had discouraged further dialogue between the Bank and the
Government in the road subsector, except for the emergency Cyclone Reconstuction Project (Loan
1921-F9), which was completed in 1984. This project was designed to enable PWD to complete the
fist phase of a much defenred and criically needed rehabilitation and upgrading prog   during
a period of tight budgetary constrints. It also focussed the attention of policy-makers on cey
Issues in the management of the road subsector-cost effectiveness in road maintenance, relative
cost effectiveness of crying out road works by contract and by force account, and the adequacy of
construction standards and methods. Moreover, the project aimed to strengthen PWDIs transport
development and road maintenance planning and monitoring capabilities.
4.02 Originally, the project was prepared and appraised jointly by the World Bank and the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), which prepared a Staff Apprisal Report (SAR) in 1986. The aim
was that the Bank and ADB would equally co-finance the project components. However, during
negotiations in October 1986, the Government and ADB could not agree on ADB's variable interest
rate spread and the Government subsequently declined ADB's financing offer. The Bank
proceeded to use ADB's SAR, with its permission, and prepared a scaled down project, as
described above The project was reapprased in February 1987, renegotiated in March 1987 and
approved by the Board in September 1987. There was a consideable delay between negotiadons
and Board approval because, in April 1987, a Geneml Elecdon was held, when the opposition Fiji
National Party gained the majority of seats. This precipitated a military coup in May 1987, and
therefore the results of the negotiations could not be approved by the Government Eventually the



- 3 -
negotiations were approved by the Governor-General, who requested the Bank to present the
project to the Board. Tre was a fiuther militaiy coup in late September 1987, which delayed the
process of sgning and effectiveness until early 1988.
4.03  An important feature of the project was the combination of contracting through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Banrs Procurement Guidelines
and the utibzation of force account in implementing project road works. During preparation of the
project there was considerable debate between the Government and the Bank over the
incorporation of an ICB component. The Govenment's previous experience under the First
Highway Project (Loan 771-I) was unfortunate as the ICB contract cost the Goverrunent dearly
and this had overshadowed the Bank's sector dialogue with Fiji for many years. Supporting the
Govemment's view was the satisfactory outcome of the works carried out by force account under
the Cyclone Reconstruction Project (Loan 1921-PIJ, which was completed within the forecast time
and budget Both the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for Loan 771-FIJ and the PCR for
Loan 1921-PU argued in favour of force account work for roads in Fiji, and this view was firmly
adopted by the overnment. It was equally clear, however, that the experience of Loan 771-FU
was an aberration and was caused by overdesign, incomplete field investigations and poor
supervision, which resulted in substantial claims by the contractor. I addition it was clear that the
cost-accounting for force account work left much to be desired, as several critical items were not
accounted for, which therefore distortedthfe final picture. After much discussion it was agreed
that one major contract should be carried out through ICB and the remaining works, which were
small and scattered and unlikely to be attractive to international contractors, would be executed by
force account. Additionally, it was agreed that a detailed comparison of the costs of each method
would be carried out as a part of the project.
4.04  Pimary responsibility for implementation was to be vested in MCFW, acting through the
PWD. MCT would be the recipient of loan finds and would also provide the local funds. The
force account works were to be executed by the respective Road Construction Units (RCU), which
had been fonned within each Divisional Engineer's Office (DEO) in the PWD, to carry out major
road construction and maintenance works. Much of the plant and equipment held by the PWD
plant pool was nearing the end of its economic life and was in urgent need of replacement. A large
number of Items of corstruction plant, equipment and vehicles required by the RCUs to carry out
the force account works were therefore to be provided under the project.
4.05 The loan for the scaled down project was approved in the sum of US$23.4 million, which
was to finance 100% of foreign expenditures or 68% of the total project costs, estimated at US$38.0
million. It was decided to retain the original implementation schedule in the SAR, which showed
all works being completed by the end of 1990. In retrospect, this was ambitious in the light of the
delays that had alr?ady been imposed on the project. The timing of the project was suitable
because of the deteriorated state of many of the roads, the urgent necessity to rehabilitate them,
and the budget constraints that prevented the Government from carrying out the works with its
own funds.
5.    &We           VJmeniation
5.01 As described above, it had been expected that the loan would be approved in April 1987,
but the General Election in tlt,t month and the subsequent military coups in May and September
of that year Imposed considerable delays to the planned start of project works. in expectation of
the planned approval date, recruitment of supervision personnel and tenders for the supply of
equipment were in an advanced state by early 1987. In the light of events, these procurement
actions had to be put on hold until it was clear to the Government that the loan would be
approved, because the US$1.0 million allowance for retroactive financing had already been
consumed. As a result, orders for equipment could not be placed until February 1988 and the
supervision personnel did not arrive until mid-1988. The equipment, which was a vital ingredient
for the successful implementation of the force account work, did not, therefore, arrive until more
than one year late and the ICB contract was also delayed by a year.



-4-
5.02 As a result of the miitary coups, there was a major exodus from Fiji of professional and
sid  Fljars of India orign and PD lost a Jorge prcentage of Its staff. The the m
engineers remited to cry out the Maintenance Strengthening component were placed in line
positons in the three DE0s with responsibility for maintenance and construction, and it was not
Fesible to provide Fijian countbs for al te other expatriate staff. This situation continued
F uraton of the project with the result that the Cost Compason Study was not completed.
However, in an attempt to alleviate the acute shortage of staff, there was a concentration on
training, which made an appredable diffeen   to the situation.
5.03  Because of the poi    dist e  during 1987, the Government devalued the Fiji Dollar
twic, fit by 17.5% and then by 15.25%, the net result of which was the force accoutt works were
coMpleted at well under the estimated cost in US$ terms and the savings thereby accrued were
used for furter puchas of constuction equipment and for some additional road works, after
obtaining the approval of the Bank. In the event, an additioal 13.8 kms of various roads were
upgraded (aking a total of 121.2 km compared with the original 107.4 km) at a cost of F$2.25
ion and anl additional F$3.0 million wort of equipment was purchased. Because these
additions to the project scope involved the use of savings from the loan proceeds, the approval had
to be taken up to vice-preidel level. This process took 5 months, from August 198 to January
1990, and eliited considerable criticism from the Government
5.04  Whle the origia project was beng prepared, the Govenment had been told that the loan
would cover retroactve expenditure  p to US$10 million Incurred after the original apralsa
mission in Day 1986. Cornultants were accordingly hired and some force account works were
sarted, when the Bank annoumed that reboacdve financing under the revised loan arrangements
would ondy cover work sttd  after the reappraisal in April 1987. The outcome of this was that
the Government was not reimbursed for about US$1.5 mmion of wxenditures inued during
1986/87.
5.05  Once stated, the road works proessed well and the quality of work was good, both In the
ICB contract and the force account work The ICB contract was awarded to a foreign contractor
whi  had put in a low tender, 35% below the engineer's estmate, and there was some doubt that
th companywot be able to complete the contrct for the amoun tendered, but eventually it
-did, All works overzun the orinS implementation schedule because of the delayed start and
beause there were still some 18 man-months of design work to be done on the force account
woiks when the project stted. Whfle subgrade conditions were not geneyally a problem and the
construction materials available In Fip were of adequate quality, initial problems arose with the
surface dressing with stripping of the aggregate being severe. The problem was eventualy
overcome by washing the aggregate and precoating it,    with the use of an adhesion agent in
the bitumen. The awarding of equipment contracts to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance
with Bank Guidelines, often resulted in acute problems of reliability, espedaly in the case of the
asphalt plants, which suffered fom frequent electrical failures in the complex electronic control
equipment, and, to a lesser degree, the crushers It took more than two years to make the asphalt
pants acceptably reLiable, resulting in financial losses because of non-availability. Experience
showed that the best type of crusher for the river gravels was a cone cmsher and this should be
specified in future purchases. Procurement of other equipment in accordance with Bank
Guidelines also resulted in the PWD receiving a variety of makes and models. In this respect the
procurement documents were at fault, in that they should have specified that, in the evaluation,
weight would be given for standardisation with existing equipment
5.06 The Government accounting system was not satisfactory for generating the Information
needed for estimating and costing project works, so the Senior Cost Accountant, hired under the
project, developed and put in place during 1987 a system that addressed these shortcomings. The
system was used for all works undertaken after 1 January 1988. Its main features, the operation of
whih were descnbed in an estimating and costng manual were:
(a)   establishing unit rate estimates from first principles into standardised sub-tasks; the
estimates included a resource schedule and works programme;
(b)   a system for monitoring project performance and costs;



(c)   a clear description of responsibilities from cost clerk, field supervisor and
supervising engineer through to principal accounts officer; and
(d)   a system for keeping task jounals, carrying out reconciliations and preparation of
programme cost statements.
These cost statements were submitted on a regular basis as part of the monthly progress report and
formed a most useful financial management tooL The Senior Cost Accountant was very ddigent in
introducing the system to all the various sections of PWD, but the principles involved were
unfamiliar to many of the staff and the usefulness of the results obtained were not always fully
appreciated. How well the system wfll be used after the departure of the expatriate accountant,
wil depend on the energy and commitment of the PWD accounting department.
5.07 Supervision of the force account works was carried out by the Project Management Unit
(PMU), which was formed within PWD and staffed by five expatriate staff. Because of the
shortage of local staff and the worldoad that fell on the PMU, the responsibilities of the staff
changed frequently to satisfy the demands placed on the PMU.
6.    te   cw
6.01  The project achieved its objectives except, because of staff constraints in PWD, for the study
and report comparing the costs of force account work with those of contracted work. This was
probably just as well because the study, in order to be completely objective, should perhaps be
carried out by an independent consultant rather than by PWD. Moreover, the fact that the final
costs of the ICB contract came out well below the initial estimate, has given a boost to the use of
ontracting as a means of carrying out roadworks, and this principle has been incorporated into
the econd Fiji Road Upgrading Project (FRUP II). The project objectives changed during the
implementation period in that about US$3.4 milion of additional roadworks and equipment were
procured utilising savings from the loan funds caused by the two devaluations of the Piji Dollar in
1987.
6.02  The post-project Economic Rate of Retum (ERR) for the all the road sections In the project
was estimated to be a very satisfactory 24%, which is an improvement over the 22% estimated at
appraisal This good result was achieved because traffic levels on the roads upgraded under the
project increased by rates which varied between 2.4% and 14.5% per annum over the period 1985-
1992, with an average of 5.8%, compared with the 2% used in the SAR. This figure of 5.8%
corresponds closely to the rate of increase In vehicle registrations over the same period. In order to
be conservative, the rates of increase of traffic for the post project evaluation of ERR for individual
road sections were assumed to be lower than the rates emerging from the taffic counts. On the
other hand, the improvement in the ERR was adversely affected by construction costs, which
tncreased, in 1985 terms, from a forecast at appraisal of F$209,200 per km to an actual cost of
F$236,000 per km over the period of the project, an increase of 12.8%. From the limited
information available, ft would appear that the roughnesses of the finished roads are lower than
forecast at appraisal and pavement strengths are higher, both of these were the result of tight
quality control frequent testing, use of appropriate plant and close supervision, all of which
engendered good workmanship during constuction. These two additional factors, which would
have reduced vehicle operating and road maintenance costs, thereby increasing the net benefits
and improving the ERR, have not been taken into account in the evaluation.
6.03 The project had a beneficial effect on the road sector, in that it reduced the number of roads
in need of urgent upgrading. It also demonstrated the benefits of carrying out work by contract
instead of the prevailing force account systemL The establishment of the PMU was crucial to the
execution of tfie project and the enhanced supervision and management capabilities made this
project more successful than others in the sector through the maintenance of high standards of
workmanship and construction quality. A similar unit should be a standard feature of future
projects and wfll probably need continuing support from expatriate staff until the local staff has
accumulated the necessary experience. The establishment of a unit rate costing system was an
imporant part of the management reqrments of the project, which has lapsed somewhat since
the departure of the expatriate cost accountant rnning it,-but it should be an integral part of all



-6-
future projects until the system is fully accepted and becomes firmly embedded into the day-to-
day operations of the PWD.
6.04 The Maintenance Strengthening component has had a positive effect on the sector in that it
developed operational improvements and was used as a springboard for the Maintenance Sector
Project (ISP) funded by ADB and for the recently approved FRUP II (Loan 3491-FEJ), financed
jointly by the Bank and ADB.
6.05 Another area where the project has had considerable Impact is that of training. After many
local staff left Fiji after the military coups of 1987, the requirement to replace them became a
priority. Training courses were put in hand by PWD with practical experience being obtained
from Involvement in project works. This process is still continuing as there is still an acute
shortage of experienced staff in PWD.
6.06  During the execution of the project a number of matters connected with it emerged, some of
whih are being addressed in future projects:
(a)   PWD has in the past tended to react to the prevailing situation instead of having a
clear strategic plan because of a shortage of skilled personnel; PWD's purpose, goals
and objectives should be developed into an action plan, which should form the basis
Of its forward planning of operations and transport corridors; under their past and
ongoing projects, IBRD and ADB are continuing to provide technical assistance
which is helping to rectify the situation;
(b)   the necessity of developing a strong domestic road contracting industry was a very
important outcome of the project, but it is equally Important to have a regular flow
of work, otherwise contractors will not Invest in equipment; the inefficiencies of
maintaining a large pool of labour and plant are self-evident as these tend to be
used on works that are not necessarily the most important or cost-effective for the
sake of keeping them employed; PWD should concentrate more on developing an
efficient management, supervision and testing system and allow the private sector
to do the actual work, similarly the plant fleet needs to be replaced from a fund set
up for that purpose, rather than relying on successive donor-assisted projects for the
renewin of the fleet; all these concerns have been addressed in the ADB MSP and
the ongoing IBRDIADB FRTP I1; and
(c)   a system of reporting for all projects should be introduced, similar to that used In
this project, so that proper control can be exercised by management and considered
decisions arrived at.
7.       e    s a
7.01  R is expected that the economic benefits generated by the project will be sustained over the
life of the roads in view of the good quality of constuction and the higher than expected traffic
levels.
7.02 The various management tools introduced during the project are now in use within the
PWD organisation. In order that the benefits of these may be sustained, follow-up components to
strengthen their use have been incorporated into FRUP IM
7.03 The main risk to the sustainability of the project benefits is that no provisions are made for
routine and periodic maintenance in future years This risk has been addressed by the MSP and
FRUP II financed by ADB and the Bank, which have tackled the bacldog of maintenance and are
aiming to put in place the institutional changes required.
8.     k
8.01 The project was well prepared and regularly, if not frequently, supervised. During
preparation, the Bank dealt finnly with the issue of contractng through ICB, which was ultimately
to the befit of this project and subsequent ones. The Bank displayed the necessary flexbility to
take on the whole of the reduced project after the Government's negotiations with ADB failed.



8.02 The Bank came In for some criticism from the Government on two counts. First, for the
infrequency of supervision and, second, for the apparent slowness in responding to requests.
More frequent supervision was considered to be unnecessary as the project generally went
smoothly, with few pressing problems, but there were some very long gaps. In view of the
infrequency of missions, the Bank should perhaps have fielded a stronger supervision team than
the lone consultant sent in the early stages of the work, especially as there was no mission between
May 1986 and August 1988. The matter of speed of response has been covered in para 5.03 above.
8.03 The main lessons learned by the Bank were:
(a)   supervision missions should have been mounted more regularly; there should have
been at least two more, one in the early part of the project, at the beginning of 1988,
and anothier during 1990;
(b)  the composition of supervision missions should have been stronger in vew of their
infrequency;
(c)  the Bank should respond faster to requests by the Borrower, be they routine
procurement matters or more complex ones requiring the decision of senior
management.
9.    R OM    u
9.01  The Borrower generally perforned very well during the preparation and implementation
of the project The Government can in no way be blamed for the stand it took over the question of
ICB, In view of its previous poor experience with ICB and the good performance of its force
account operations, whic view had been reinforced by the comments made by the Bank in its
PPAR/PCRs for the previous projects. The delays caused by the failure of the Government's
negotiations with ADB and by the political events of 1987 are unforunate, but despite these the
project only exceeded by 6 months the date originally set for the closing of the foan. During
implementation, despite the acute shortage of qualfied local staff, the PMU operated well and kept
good control on the project.
9.02 The main lessons learned by the Borrower were:
(a)  the PMU was a very important innovation that greatly facilitated the management
of this relatively large project, and there is considerable support for maldng the
PMU a standard feature of future large projects;
(b)  the vital necessity for a well-planned project cost monitoring system such as the one
developed during this project and the necessity for introducing It as a standard
operational procedure in PWD;
(c)  the caing out of road construction works by contract can be cost effective if well
planned, properly packaged and cefully controled and supervised;
(d)   PWD needs to develop its strategic plnning capability;
(e)   procurement procedures need to be streamlined and future documents should be
more carefully designed to achieve the aims of the PWD for procuring reliable
equipment and achieving a degree of standardisation; and
()   before future projects, the current manpwer needs should be carefully evaluated to
determin whether a component providing further structured training should be
hincorporated.
10.   r-
10.01 Relatio  between the Bank and the Govemment were good during the project, but because
of the relatively long periods between missions, and the changing of the people comprising the
misions, it proved difficult to develop a close worldng relationship with the project staff.



- 8 -
1La
11.01 Foreign consltantswere employed to:
(a)   carry out the detailed design work, and, subsequently, superision of construction
of the works;
(b)   staff the PMU, which managed the force account works; and
(c)   carry out the Road Maitennmce Strengthendng comtponent.
All canied out their responsibilities satisfactorily, and, in the case of the consultants not involved
in the ICB contract, with great flexibility, because of the additional responsibilities thrust upon
them by thedeparture of most of the local staff of PWD.
11.02 The ICB contract was carried out by a foreign contractor, whose performance improved
from poor at the start to acceptable at the end of what was tecnically a fairly difficult contract. A
very low bid price, language difficulties, inexperience in a tropical cimate, lack of resources,
deficiencies In material preparation and poor planning, aU compounded the contractor's initial
problems. Exceptionally wet weather during 1990 made it difficult for the contractor to catch up
lost time and the contract finished 3 months late overall. It can be presumed that the contractor
made a substantial financial loss, but nevertheless completed the work to a high standard, hence
presrving his good stding for future prequalification.
11.03 The remainder of the works were carried out by the PWD's RCUs. As a result of the
supervision given to this part of the works by the PMU, the RCUs performed well, even if they did
not achieve the rates of progress that had been forecast at appraisal. The resulting works were
completed to a good standard.
11.04 Equipmnent was procured from a lage number of suppliers. Most of them performed
satisfactorily, and the only one that is singled out by PWD or criticism is the asphalt plant
manufacturer, who was reluctant to do what he should have done wilingly to correct the faulty
eectronics, whih delayed the effective use of these plants for many month
12.   Xz2mMX        la_inJndJAIA
12.01 The SAR was written by ADB and applied to a somewhat larger project, but it nevertheless
provided a usehfl famework for all parties dufing project implementation. The project as
undertaken was based on the Bankes President's Memorandum.
12.02 The Loan Agreement was wel prepared and served its purpose adequately. All covenants
were appropriate.
12.03 Information for the PCR was provided by the PWD, together with project documentation
and Bank files.



- 9 -
REPllBIC  FEWJ
ROAD UPGRADING PROJECT - LON 2871-01
MoQ.= NM  NRT
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOROW'S PERSEEE1
hs ank's Petmance
The appraisal report for the project was prepared by Officers of the Asian Development Bank
and the Report subsequently used by IBRD with brief covering memo that made minor changes to the
report. It would have been useful if his memo had also included amendments to Table 1: Sumar of
PjQect Costs with respect to contingencies and interest charges resulting from withdrawal of Ba and
Sigatoka Bridges from the project scope.
The delay in executing the loan agreement, that was expected in late March/early April 1987, to
8 Janualy 1988, delayed particularly the purchase of project plant and equipment and engagement of
consultants for design and supervision of ICB works. The military coups of 14 May 1987 and 25
September 1987 were the reasons for this delay, but it was difficult during this period to obtain from the
Bank the conditions that would need to be met for the execution of the loan agreement to proceed. It is
acknowledged, however, that these were most unusual, and special conditions are likely to apply in each
case.
Supervision missions visited the project as foDlows:
1.    1 August to 8 August 1988       - Mr. Federico Castro
2.    15 May to 23 May 1989           - Mr. Federico Castro
3.    4 December to 9 December 1989    - Mr. George Trnka
4.    30 April to 10 May 1991          - Mr. George Tmnk
It is difficult to comment on the usefulness of these missions from the Borrowers viewpoint
accepting that their major purpose was more Bank related. The comparison is offered that Asian
Development Bank supervision missions have taken a much greater interest in the conduct of project
works and in the solution of implementation problems for the largely concurrent Maintenance Sector
Project.
The Bank's response in relation to the proposed additional works submitted for approval on 29
August 1989 was disappointing. The design and construction of the additional works induding roads
and bridges was to be completed by December 1990 but the Bank's partial approval was not received
until 29 January 1990 (no additional information was requested). Preconstruction activities for the
additional works had to proceed in the absence of any Bank decision. For projects that are to be
delivered with tight schedules (i.e.. 120 km of roadworks in 3 years), it is suggested that Task Managers
need to be sufficiendy well informed to be able to make timely decisions.
The use made by the Bank of progress reports is interesting. Not one query was received as a
result of submitted progress reports nor was there any concern expressed regarding the non-submission
of progress reports after 30 September 1990.
The Bank requirement that te lowest conforming tender be accepted is understandable, but has
real disadvantages in relation to standartization of plant fleets. Standardization offers indisputable
advantages in small countries like Fiji and this matter should be addressed during the appraisal phase of a
project.
1 The originsl report provided by the Government has been retped, as part of it were barely legib.



- 10 -
Borrowers Pefioranc
The borrowers performance with respect to defivery of the project objectives was very good.
Although, construction of the ICB works were not substantially completed by the end of 1990, this was
largely out of control of the Borrower and dictated by the Contractor.
To assist in delivery of the project the following consultancies were arranged:
1.    Institutional Strengthening
This consultancy included the establishment of the Project Management Unit. At the
end of 1987, with the departure of expatriate road construction engineers from Central
and Western Divisions, a fiuther 2 senior road construction engineers were recruited. All
expatriate staff provided for institutional strengthening were recruited from the Overseas
Projects Corporation of Victoria (Australia).
2.    Design and Construction of ICB
Consultants Roughton and Partners from the United Kingdom were selected to provide
services for design and supervision of the 18.2 ktn ICB Kings Road Project.
The original technical assistance study provided 20.5 man-years for expatriate consultants.
However some 31.75 man-years were used largely because ofi
(a)   the extension of the date for practical completion of the ICB works by approximately 1
year resulted in an additional 4 man years.
(b)   the provision of 2 senior road construction engineers for approximately 2.75 years
resulted in an additional 5.5 man-years.
(c)   the provision of a bridge design engineer for I man-year.
With the departure of a large number of local engineers from PWD after the 1987 coups, it was
not physically possible to provide counterpart staff for expatriate staff. This was discussed in detai with
all of the Bank's supervision missions.
As a result of this, all expatriates who were originally provided for institutional strengthening
were required to undertake additional and amended duties. The Estimating Engineer was required to
take on the duties of Road Design Engineer as most of the design work that was expected to be
completed on arrival of the consultants was not complete at that point in time. Road Maintenance
Engineers provided for the Road Maintenance Study took on line duties that effectively made them
second in charge in each division as well as their maintenance study duties. The Project Management
Unit also assumed control of the ADB funded Road Maintenance Sector Project as well as the
BaJSigatoka Bridge Project. The provision of consultants to provide institutional strengthening and
design and supervision of ICB Works during the project was absolutely critical to successful delivery of
the project and to many other activities that were on-going in PWD at the time.
Establishment of the Project Management Unit was important and it provided a sharp focus for
responsibility and accountability for the project and defined ownership of technical and financial
control. Their provision in similar future projects is recommended.
The establishment of unit rate systems and standard specifications for road and bridge works was
also important for proper project control. The comparison between the standard of project works
undertaken in 1987 compared to those undertaken after 1 January 1988 when these items were in place,
highlights the benefits.
The internal government processes associated with the acquisition of plant equipment and
vehides, appointment of staff and provision of audit reports needs some strengthening for future projects
of this type. Similarly the reconciliation of cost statements with central EDP ledgers needs to be
improved for the provision of accurate and timely cost information and for draw down of loan funds.



- 11 -
The broad terms of reference for the Project Management Unit (referred to as FASU in the
appraisal report) included assistance in establishing a self-funding plant fleet. The need for this was
supported but with involvement in the management of the Maintenance Sector Project, this objective
was not achieved. It should be induded for pursuit in any further similar project if it has not been
achieved by that time.
The Road Maintenance Engineers and subsequent ADB funded Road Maintenance Sector
Project has seen real improvement in the condition of the major network although much remains to be
done and further financial assistance would result in economically justifiable benefits.
The Road Maintenance Study saw some changes to the PWD maintenance organization but the
lack of professional engineers did not allow appointment of several of the key positions. Even so, there is
general acceptance of the importance of asset preservation and the organization in place at the end of the
project will provide a strong base to further strengthen maintenance requirements.
The proposed comparative study between construction by force account versus construction by
contract was not undertaken because the estimating engineer was transferred to other duties and the rates
submitted by the lowest tender for the ICB works were considered to be unrealistically low. Even so it is
contended that an effort must be made to develop the local road construction industry and this should
be addressed in future projects.
Although execution of the works was undertaken by PWD within the Ministy of Infrastructure
and Public Utilites, communication with the Bank on financial aspects was the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance. At times this created inefficiencies and meant that draw-down applications were
prepared by PWD but forwarded to the Ministry of Finance for despatch to the Bank. Similarly,
information provided by the Bank was forwarded to the Ministy of Finance and took some time for its
receipt by the Project Management Unit in PWD. For fture projects serious consideration should be
given to the establishment of a task force, or similar, under the executing Ministry for proper co-
ordination of other Ministries and all liaison with the Bank be undertaken through the executing
Ministry.
The major training benefit provided by the project will be for field supervisory personnel. The
absence of professional engineers meant that the training efforts of expatriates were concentrated on
developing local supervisors and it is contended that there is a pool of experienced and capable
supervisors who with proper management could build similar roads to a high standard.
,Relationship Between teBank and de Botrwer
There is little comment that can be made in this regard as the relationship was effective in
successful completion of the project. It would be useful at the time of ececuting the loan for the Bank to
provide a list of liaison officers and communications addresses for different aspects of the project
execution. Responsibility of Bank officers and their delegated authority was often unclear.
A project completion report that discusses all aspects of the project but in limited detail is
attached.



- 12 -
ROA1 UPGR&DMN  ISQ=iI - LOAN 287 M-lI
ER&Q= CQMPEIUlREEQX
PART M - SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
IL    Related BaM   nk L=an&Mo WA edih
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Loan/Credit               Pupoe              Year of     Stat         Coomments
Titde                                     Approval
Loan 771-FlJ      Upgading and rehabilitaon    1971    Completed  Closed 31 Mar 78
First Highway     of roads and bridges and pro-                    PPAR No. 4025
Project           vision of eipment                                dated 30 Jun 82
Loan 1921-FlJ     Reconstruction of cyclone-    1980    Completed  Closed 30 Jun 84
Cyclone           damaged infrastructure                           PCR No. 5739
Reconstruction                                                     dated 28 Jun 85
Project
Loan 3491-FIJ     Upgding roads, road safety,   1992    In progress Approved by the
Second Road       triffic management, vehice                       Board 18 Jun 92
Upgrading Project  regulation, provision of equ-                   Loan signature
ipment, technical assistance                    awaited
and consultant services
Souce  Bank Staff



- 13 -
2. P4   Time4bl
Date
Itm                                  PIanned           Revised           Actual
First Mention In Files                                         -             19 Jul 84
Goverment's Application                                        -              N/A
Identification Mission                                         -              Jul 84
Project Brief                               28 Feb 85                         Apr86
Preparation Mission I                        Dec 84            -             Nov 84
Piepartion Mission II                                          -              Feb 85
Preappralsl Mission I                       May 85             -              Oct 85
Preappralsa Mission II                                         -              Jan 86
Appraisd Mission                             Sep 85          Apr 86          May 86
Loan Negotiations I                         10 Feb 86                        20 Oct 86
Reappraisal                                                                   Feb 87
Loan Negotiations II                                                        17 Mar 87
Board Approval                             18 May 86         Oct 86         03 Sep 87
Loan Signature                               Jun86                           07 Jan 88
Loan Effeciveness                            Jan 87                         02 Feb 88
Loan Closing Date                           30Jun91         31 Dec91        31 Dec 91
Project Completion                         31 Dec 91        30Jun92          30 Jun92
Loan Account Closing Date                                                    16 Jan 92
Source: Bark Staff



- 14 -
3.    IaDsueet
A. ClaveW Esmated ard Actulg Disbursements
IBRD FY     1988        1989        1990         1991        1992
Eisdmated                    10.0        16.0        20.0        23.4
Actual                       0.5         92          15.1        21.6         23.4
Actualas%ofEstimate           5          58           76          92          100
The final disbursement was nade on 16 Jan 92.
Source: Bank Staff
B. Disbursements by Cateo
(U3$ millions)
Amount Allocated
Category                                      Appral                     Actual
(1) Civil Works
(a) Under Contract                                 4.0                      2.3
(b) By Force Account                               7.2                      8.8
(2) Equipment, Vehicles and Spare Parts               7.0                       8.7
(3) Consultants' Services                              1.7                      3.6
(4) Unallocated                                        3.5                      0.0
Total                                         23.4                     23.4
Source: Bank Staff



- 15 -
4.  r   letmg
Comparlson Between Proposed and Actual Imiplementation
Bank FT     1987       1088           1890             1980   --r       1        te8n
Qtr. 1 2 1 341134 11213 4112313411231341112
ACMIWTY              CaL Yr. 1880       187           188I8            180         19             11
_ Qtr. 3  4  1  2   3        1 1 2  3a  4    1 2  3        1 -2-     4  1--23  4
PROcUREMENr OF EQUIPMENT             G      *E        ---
IC0 CONTRAC_
DeolIn E81 
pocumento & Tendering                                     a -   Z
ConotructIon                                               1_
FORCE ACCOUNT CONSTRUCTION
Rabulu - Narws Roed                               -       -  ---j
Rakiraki - EIlin0ton Road
Loganl VIIIago Road
SaWto Road
Nadl Back Road                                         OE   m Mo
Moto Road                                              a     S
Koronulu Road
PrInc0e Road                                                 -  *  *  * X     -1  
Nakomutarl Road                                                                -  i   -
TrndIaular Road                   e                      a      m  *  inm
CONSULTANT SERMCES
Management of Forc Account Workse        I =    E                                             -      -      *
W  ___  ___    _ _    -     
0upebWion ofICa Contract                                        _      I                                   i
MAINTENANCE STRENGTHENING                     _                          *      _         j _
Pro poed Implanentalon
Actual Implmentation
Source PWD and Bank Staff



- 16 -
S.            =~dnnn
A. Eroje Costs,
(US$ milions)
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual
Component                  Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Road Upgrading             10.9       10.1       21.0      12.9       11.3        24.2
Equipment                   0.0        7.5        7.5       0.0        9.1         Q.1
Consultancy Services        0.6        1.8        2.4       0.6        3.0         3.6
Right-of-Way                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.3        0.0         0.3
Total Base Cost          11.5      19.4        30.9      13.8       23.4       37.2
Physical Contingences       1.7        1.8        3.5       0.0        0.0         0.0
Prlce Contingendes          1.4        2.2        3.6       0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs      14.6      23A         3.        13.8       23.4       372
Source: Bank Staff
f3$ Tillion)
Planned                             Final
Source                      US$ M              %               US$ M              %
IBRD                          23.4            62                 23.4             63
Govemment                     14.6            38                  13.8            37
Total                      38.0           100                  37.2           100
Source: Bank Staff



- 17 -
6.    Ptgc Resuls
A. Ecnon-s IMP
Overall appral estmate of ERR for roadworks     = 22%
Overall post-project evaluation of ERR for roadworks    = 24%
The Appraisal Report estimated the ER to be 22% for all the roads to be upgraded under the Project,
based on a 2% annual growth in traffic and achieving a roughness of 3500 mm/km. Traffic counts
taken between 1985 and 1992 show that traffic on these roads has increased at rates that varied between
24% and 14.5%, with an average of 5.8%. Although some of the higher rates had been sustained over 7
years, they were considered to be too high to apply to the 20 year life of the roads, and lower rates were
assumed in the post-project evaluation. On the other hand, the ERR was adversely affected by an
increase in economic construction costs, expressed In 1985 terms, which rose from an appraisal estdmate
of F$209,200 per km to an actual F$236,000 per km, iLe. 12.8%. The post-project ERR for the roadworks
omponent was calculated to be 24% overall, with a range of 13% to 46% for Individual road sections.
The following factors, which would have increased net benefits and improved the ERR were not taken
'nto consideration for ladc of detailed infornation on all the roads:
(a)   roughness measurements taken on a few of the roads show that work has been to a high
standard of finish and readings are of the order of 2000 mm/km, a considerable
improvement on the roughness of 3500 mm/km assumed at appralsal, this would have
the effect of lowering vehicle operating costs; and
(b)  the good workmanship has resulted in pavement strengths that are higher than forecast,
which would have the effect of lowering maintenance costs over the life of the roads.
B. Studies
Purpose as Defined           Sau               mato  td
Studies             at Appraisal              Status           Impact of Study
Cost Comparison of To provide a basis for the on- Not completed, because None, but outcome
Road Works by going discussions on the rel- of commitment of consul- of project has served
Contract and by ative costs of carrying out tant's personnel on su- to reinforce the view
Force Account     highwayimprovementworks pervision and manage- that some works
using the PWD's own re- ment duties because of should be executed
sources or by contract, either loss of local staff after mil- through contract in
through ICB or LCB       itary coups of 1987   future projects
Source Bank Staff



- 18 -
7.    Sign ofCove
Section                         Covenant                             Status
4.01(a)     The Borrower shll maintain records and accounts in ac- Complied with
cordance with sound accoundng practices
4.01(b) & (c)  The Borrower shaD have these records and accounts, and Partly complied with; au-
those peraindng to SOEs, audited in accordance with ap- diting carried out but with
propriate auditing principles consistently applied and delays
submit to the Bank
Sched. 5.2    The Borrower shall place consultant road maintenance Partly complied with; con-
engineers In PWD and Its divisions and provide counter- sultants placed but not all
parts                                           counterparts available
Sched. 5.3    The Borrower shall, by 31 December 1990, complete a Only partly complied with;
study to compare cost effectiveness of road construction a brlef report was provided
by force account and by contract
Source: Bank Staff



- 19 -
8. 
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle      Numberof             Remarks
Through Apprsa                    153      Estimate - MIS divides up lending operation in
different way
Apprisal  rough Board Approval     5.8    Estimate - MIS divides up lending operation in
different way
Board Approval though             10.2    Estimate - MIS divides up lending operation in
Effectiveness                              different way
Supervision                       25.9    Includes preparation of PCR
Totad                           57.2
Source: Bank Staff
B. Mis1om
Stage of Project Cyde  Month/ No. of  Days In  Specdalisation   Perhfrmance   Types of
Year  Persons  Field  Representedlll Rating Status[2] Problems
Through Appraial -
Identfication      07/84     1       7        EBR             -
Prepaation I       11/84     1       7        EGR             -           -
Preparation I      02/85    1        4        EGR             -
Preappralsal I     10/85     1       8        ECN             -
PreappriSals l     01/86     1      14        EGR             -           -
Apprisal           05/86     1       5        EGR             -           -
Board Approl                                  No missions
Board Approval
through Effectiveness-                        No missions
Supervision -
Supervison I       08/88     1      10        EGR             1
SupervisionII      05/89     1      10        EGR             I
Supervisioniim     12/89     1       7        EGR             I
Supervision IV     04/91     1      14        EKR             I
Supervision (PCR)   02/92    2      10       EGRx2            I
Notes: 1] ER =EngIeer,KCN= Economist
[21 1 = Problem-ee or Minor Problems
Source: Bank Staff



