14 --> ,            "    1RESTR IC TED
Report No. 6717-FIJI
ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT BANK                            This Report has been prepared for
the exclusive use of the Bank.
-~~~~~~~                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. :~   :   : .,.y
if. 
APPRAISAL REPORT
FOR THE
ROAD UPGRADING PROJECT
IN FIJI
DECEMBER 1986



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of 31 October 1986)
Currency Unit                               Fiji Dollar (F$)
F$1.00                                      US$0.8555
US$1.00                                     F$1.1688
The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar fluctuates daily. For
the purpose of conversion in this Report, a rate of US$1.00 = F$1.11
has been used, which approximates the average daily rate prevailing
during appraisal of the Project.
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO      -     Central Planning Office
DEO      -     Divisiona: Engineer's Office
DOT      -     Department of Transport
DP8      -     Eighth Development Plan (1981-1985)
DP9      -     Ninth Development Plan (1986-1990)
FASU     -     Force Account Supervision Unit
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
MBA      -     Master Builders Association
MCTW     -     Ministry of Communications, Transport and Works
PWD      -     Public Works Department (within MCTWI
R&A      -     Roads and Airfie!ds (section within PWD)
RCU      -     Road Construction Unit
Si       -     Sensitivity Indicator
TCB      -     Transport Control Board
VOC      -     Vehicle Operating Cost
VPD      -     Vehicles Per Day
W&T      -     Works and Transport
NNOTE
The fiscal year of the Government coincides with the calendar year.



Covering Note
This ADB Appraisal Report has been used, with ADB's approval, as a source of
basic appraisal data only for the revised project which is now being submitted
to the Executive Directors for their consideration. The changes made to the
scope of the original ADB project are as follows:
(a) The construction of the Sigatoka and Ba bridges has been excluded
(ADB Appraisal Report, para 50).
(b) The related consulting services for supervision of construction of
these two bridges have also been excltded; the consulting services
for detailed engineering of these two bridges have remained in the
revised project (ADB Appraisal Report, para. 52); and the Government
will undertake studies on road user charges and on the domestic
construction industry with funds out of its own resources or
alternatively through grant financing. The Bank will assist the
Government to review the terms of reference for these studies (see
para. 8 of the Memorandum of the President and ADB Appraisal Report,
paras. 53-55).
(c) The condition that the Force Account Supervision Unit wil'l need to
be established in order to enable force account civil works to
become eligible for disbursements under the loan (ADB Appraisal
Report, para 94 (i)) is no longer needed. The Force Account
Supervision Unit is now being established within PWD.
August 4, 1987
Washington D.C.



PROJECT FOCIS, DESIGN AND RATIONALE
The Goverment's economic  development  strategy  focuses on
achieving economic growth while promoting more equitable distribution
of development benefits, particularly In rural areas. This requires that
resources be utilized In a balanced  mer to encourage the continuation
of growth In relatively developed areas while promoting development
elsewbere. To support Its objectives, the Government haa assigned high
priority to Improving the transport system, particularly land transport.
Under i:s Ninth Development Plan, 1986-1990, the Government plans to
upgrade about 86 km of main and 89 km of secondary roads to
bitumen-paved standards and to construct about 350 km of rural access
roads.
The ,iroposed Project will assist the Government in meeting its
lad transport objectives by upgrading ten stretches of main and
secondary roads on the islands of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu and by
replacIng tuo single-lane low-level bridges on Viti Levu. The tbree
main road stretches to be upgraded under the Project are part of the
Kin p   o.4, tihlhb  along  with  the  Queens  Road  forms  Viti Levu's
cireminosular road. From this road other roads penetrate the island's
iaterior. Five other road stretches on Viti Levu to be 'proved under
the Project connect to the circumiusular road. Four of these provide
access to Intensively cultivated agricultural areas while the fifth, the
Princes Road, joins the capital, Suva, with the regional market
center at Nausorl.  There are two Project road stretebes on Vanua Levu;
one serves rural areas near urban Labasa and the other forms part of the
transinsQular road near the port of Savusavu.  The Project will also
provide consultant services to assist the GoverDment in implementing the
road and bridge works and in helping improve planning, programming and
implementing road maintenance practices.
The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$48.8 million
with a foreign exchange cost of US$31.8 million (US$27.2 million
excluding an estimated US$4.6 million interest and other charges during
construction).   The  local  currency  component  is  US$17.0  million
equivalent. The proposed Bank loan of US$13.6 million from ordinary
capital resources will finance part of the foreign exchange cost. It is
expected that the remaining foreign exchange cost of US$13.6 million
excluding interest and other charges during construction will be
co-financed by IBRD.
The quantifiable benefits of the Project as a whole yield an
estimated economic internal rate of return of 21 per cent and
sensitivity tests indicate that the Project will remain viable even
under  assumptions  of  adverse  changes   in  costs  and  benefits.
Non-quantifiable benefits will accrue through increased mobility of the
inhabitants served by the Project roads, therebv providing them with
better  access  to  social,  adminlstrative  and  economic  activitles.
Replacement of the two bridges will remove serious bottlenecks to the
free  flow  of  the  large  volumes  of  traffic  using  the  bridges.
Maintenance experts will assist the Government in road maintenance



planning and prograuuing and will be responsible for implementing the
program. It is expected that these services will considerably improve
the cost-effectiveness of the maintenance program while training local
staff to eventually assuse maintenance responsibilities.
The Public Works Department (PND) will be the Executing Agency
for the Project. While ND Lsa had considerable experience In preparing
and lmplemeting road works that are internally funded and carried out
by departmental forces (force account), PWD has lited experience with
externally  funded projects.  Consultants will be provided under the
Project to prepare designs and contract documents and to supervise
constructilon of works to be undertaken by contract. For those works to
be accomplished under force account, consultants will be recruited to
form a Force Account Supervision Unit *  This unit will be responsible
for reviewing the designs prepared by PND and for ensuring that the
force  account works  are  implemented  properly.   The  Project  is
econoically viable and no unusual technical, economic or environmental
risks are foreseen.



(1)
Table of Contents
Pase
MAP                                                            (11)
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                     1
II.  BACKGROUND                                                       2
A.   The Transport Sector                                        2
B.   The Road Subsector                                          4
C.   External Financitg and Donor Assistance                     7
D.   Administration of the Road Subsector                        8
S.   The Project Area                                           10
F.   Traffic Trends and Forecasts                               12
G.   Existing Road Conditions and Proposed                      13
Improvements
III. THE PROJECT                                                     15
A.   Objectives                                                 15
B.   Project Scope                                              15
C.   Project Description                                        15
D.   Advisory Technical Assistance                              16
E.   Cost Estimates                                             17
F.   Financlng Plan                                             19
G.   Environmental, Road Safety and Energy Aspects              20
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                           21
A.   Executing Agency                                           21
B.   Implementation Arrangements                                22
C.   Consultant Services                                        23
D.   Procurement                                                24
E.   Implementation Schedule                                    25
F.   Land Acquisition                                           25
G.   Maintenance                                                25
H.   Accounting and Auditing                                    25
I.   Reporting                                                  26
J.   Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation                  26
K.   Technical Assistance                                       26
L.   Implementation of Previous Bank Projects                   27
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                             28
A.   Objectives                                                 28
B.   Benefits and Beneficiaries                                 28
C.   Estimation of EIRR                                         29
D.   Sensitivity Tests                                          30
E.   Project Risks                                             31
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                 32
VII. APPENDIXES                                                      34



ti)
NORTHERN  DDItsinP                                FII SLAM S ROAD W3?#Rf
-                    L~~~~~~ANAL
*                                    /'   od 
J~~~~~~~~~~~O(  *A 0
*4          ViTf LE        V'Vtt                                      ---n' 
hIA~~~~O@~~~       I ~EASTERN  CIVISION
EN    T RAVL              DIVISION N
WECSTERNt Dlvlll° | " *-
_   _ ~    QI                  'U
1__-~~                                                                  ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~ >  'I  * Wui .U



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Development strategies In Fiji focus on achieving economic
growth while promoting a more equitable distributior of the benefits of
development and improving social conditions, especially in rural areas.
Related to these alms are the neods of generating job opportunities and
maintaining greater financial stability. To facilitate meeting these
objectives, the Government has given high priority to improving the
transport system, particularly land transport.  The main tbrusts In
isproving land transport development are: (1) providing access to
isolated and rural areas; (i1) Improving and upgrading roads and bridges
as necessary; (Ii1) adequately maintalning the existing road network;
aud (iv) ensuring effective control and regulation of the public
transport system.  External assistance In the past has been limited;
this Project will be the Bank's first lavolvem~nt in the road subsector
In Fiji.
2.        In response  to the Government's  request   for support In
developing its transport infrastructure, on 31 Januery 1985 the Bank
approved a technical assistance grant (TA No. 667-FIJ in the amount of
US$150,000) to undertake feaibility  studies for upgrading 173 lm of
roads and two sajor brilges on the islands of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu.
'Tbe study confirmed the need for upgrading a total of 107 km of roads
and replacement of the  owo major bridges.   A Fact-Finding Mission
visited Fiji in January 1986 and after an in-depth review of the study
and consultations with the Government, which had requested Blank and
World Bank co-financing for improvement of the roads and replacement of
the two bridges, the proposed Project was formulated.
3.        A  lank Mission  composed  of T.  F. Jones  (Senior Project
Economist) as Mission Leader, F. Sharpley (Senior Project Engineer), P.
Trillana (Senior Counsel), and K. K. Huh (Country Economist) visited
Fiji from 27 May to 11 June 1986 to appraise the proposed Project. The
i.81sion was joined in the field by W. C. Hopper (Senior Project
Engineer) of the Bank's SPRO and G. Trnka (Senior Transport Engineer) of
the World Bank.   This  report  is based  on  the  feasibility  study,
discussions with Government officials and the findings of the Mission.



2
11. BACKGROUND
A.  Tbe  ransport Sector
1.   General
4.        Fiji comprises 332 islands, about 105 of which are inhabited.
The islands$ with a total area of 18,320 eq ka, are scattered over about
150,000 sq km of ocean in the South Pacific.  The two largest islands,
Viti Levu (10,400 sq km) and Vanua Levu (5,500 eq ha), respectively
account for 57 and 30 per cent of the land area and for 75 and 14 per
cent of FijI's total population of around 710,000.1/  The iands are of
volcanic origin, and the larger islands have rain-forested mountain
ranges,  narrow  vafleya  and  lWited  coastal  plais.  Although  the
population growth rate Is a moderate 2 per cent, the population denslty
Is above average for the South Pacific Region&, t 38 persons per eq km.
About 35 per cent of the population (240,000) lives In urban areas, wtb
the remaining 65 per cent (460,000) living i rural areas and engaged
mainly In agriculture. The capital, Suva, on the Island of VitI Low,
is the country's major urban center, accounting for more tan 20 per
cent of the total population. Other urban centers include BS, Lautoka,
NaHi Nausol and Sigatoka, on Viti Levu; and Lebasa and Savusavu, on
Vanu  L,a.
5.        The Fijian economy, while basically agricultural,  Is more
diversified than the economies of mny otber South Pacific developing
meber countris. Agriculture accounts for about 24 per cent of gross
domestic product and Is domimted by sugar, which has long been the main
source of cash Income and export earnings. 2/ Tourism and related
Industries have been gaining importance since the uid-1960s and now
contribute significantly to the economy, as does manufacturing.3/ Sugar
and tourism account for about 66 and 25 per cent respectively of total
export earnings . Other major foreign exchange earners are gold, tiaber
and copra. lecent Government development objectives emphasize the need
for an efficient transport network to reduce the cost of transport, to
assist in the equitable distribution of development benefits, and to
promote tourism.
2.  Transport Planning, Coordination and Policy
6.        The Ministry of Communications, Transport and Works (MCTW) is
the agency primarily responsible for transport coordination and
planning.   Overall planning coordination is undertaken by MCTW, the
Central Planning Office (CPO) of the Miaistry of Economic Development,
Planning and Tourism (see para 23), and the Development Committee,
comprising  relevant  permanent  secretaries  and  ministers.    Such
coordination ensures that transport sector projects are appropriate in
1/  ?'d-1986 estimate.
2/ Tree cropping is of less importance than elsewhere in the
South Pacific.
3/   While some manufacturing, notably flsh canning, involves
export trade, recent Government policy has encouraged the
development of domestic industry.



3
size,  ting  and  location  with  regard  to  the  specific  physical
infrastructure needs and development goals of the Governent.
7 .       The Public Works Department (PWD) within lCTN is responsible
for planni, designitg  constructing and maintaining about 95 per cent
of all reads.l!  Proposls for transport infrastructure, particularly
roads, en be initiated at any level, from the Village Councils
upward.  Proposals   are   collated   and   processed  by  CPO  and the
Developmet Comittee.  All aspects of the transport infrastructure
proposals are considered, including teebuical viability and priority for
inclusion under a specific five-year development plan. The completed
five-year plan is submitted to the Cabinet for approval.
8.        Sine the late 1960s, dexslopment of the transport sector has
been  based maly  on  a  program  that was  recomended  in  a  study
undertaken from 1966 to 1968 with UNDP assistance. The recommendations
under the program were largely implemented by the early 1980s. Recent
transport inestments have been confined mostly to existing facilities,
whose need for improvement is readily evident. and to new road links,
which are needed to provide access to areas displaying significant
developent potential. To maintain a proper mix of road upgradiug (on
sections that yield high economic returns) and new country roads (which
provide basic access and Increased rural welfare), the Government has
prepared a road developmet program for iuplementation under the Ninth
Developumt Plan (DP9) for 1986-1990. DP9 foresees the upgrading of 86
km of main and 89 km of secondary roads to a bitumen-paved standard and
the constructio  of about 350 km of country  roads.2/ To prepare future
developumt plan, the Government is considering coissioning a Com-
prehensive study of trasport needs and priorlties. These studies would
be undertaken toward the end of the DP9 period.
3. Inestment
9.        Finace for planning, designing, constructing and maintaining
national roads is provided through appropriations in the Government's
annual budget, which are coursed through PWID. In the case of rural
roads which do not meet PWD minimum design standards, funds are provided
through the Ministries of Fijian Affairs and Rural Development.3/  In
towns and cities, funds for road works are allocated from internal
revenue sources and from grants provided by the National Government.
10.       National Government expenditures for roads and road transport
administration between 1981 and 1986 are given in Appendix 1. Over this
six-year period F$125.8 million was spent by the National Government,
averaging  about  F$21  million  annually.  By category of  expenditure,
1/   These exclude special purpose roads such as those built
specifically for logging purposes and village access and
some urban roads.
2/   The Government intends to finance the construction of
countrv roads by external grant aid and fron its own resources.
3/   Except for speclal purpose roads such as forestry roads,
which are funded by the authority concerned.



4
10 per cent was for administration, 34 per cent for maintenance, 51 per
cent for capital works and 5 per cent for land transport functions.
These proportions have remained relatively constant over the period,
II.       Under DP9, about  19 per cent of total Government capital
expenditure Is allocated to the transport sector,l/ compared witb 15 per
cent allocated under the Eighth Development Plan (DP8) for 1981-1985.
Although detailed expenditures for other modes are not readily
available,   the   total   expenditure   for   capital   inestment   Xn
Infrastructure and utilities ia expected to increase from about P$223
illion under DP8 to F$234 million under DP9. The transport share wll
Increase from about 30 per cent of the total expenditure for
Infrastructure and utilities under DP8 to about 38 per cent, or F$88
million,  of  the  planned  capital  expenditure  under  DP9.   Road
construction and improvements alone account for about F$81 million, or
93 per cent of the transport share under DP9, compared with 76 per cent
under DP8. Since the Government continues to consider upgrading and
provision of transport infrastructure an important element In attaining
Its social and economic objectives, it is envisaged that the proportion
of the transport share allocated to roads under DP9 will remait at about
the sane level under succeeding development plans. Development of roaS
trasport Infrastructure Is expected to continue to receive priority
attention.
B.   The Road Subsector
1.  The Road Network.
12.       toads under the administration of PWD are those that were
constructed to the specific minium  FWD standard.  These roads are
subdivided  into  four  categories:  main,   secondary,  country  and
residential. in 1965, five years before tndependence, Fiji had 2,100 km
of roads of which 84 km were paved to a bitumen-surfaced standard.
Since  independevce,  Government  policy,  under  three   successive
development plans, has emphasized the need for roads to provide access
between commercial centers and developing areas and to open up other
areas with development potential.   Considerable progress toward this
objective has been achieved; by 1984, the country's road network had
increased to 4,650 km, consisting of 1,260 km of main roads, 630 km of
secondary roads, 2,410 km of country roads (rural access), 145 km of
residential roads, and 205 km of other roads.  About 680 km of the
network is paved So a bitumen-surfaced standard (see Appendix 3).  High
priority is still being given to the construction of new roads, which
will provide basic access to isolated rural areas with potential for
development. Development in areas served by a large number of existing
roads has expanded with concomitant increases in traffic volumes; these
1/   In comparison, 26 per cent is allocated to agriculture,
13 per cent to social and community development, 20 per
cent to utilities such as water, sewerage and telecom-
munications, 3 per cent to energy and about 19 per cent
to other sectors.
2/   Information concerning other modes of transport is contained
in Appendix 2.



5
roads must now be upgraded to provide all-weather access, This will
Improve transport reliability and decrease vehicle operating and road
maintenance costs.
2.   Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
13.       All motorized vehicles in Fiji must be registered Initially
and then licensed annually for use on the public road system. In 1984,
the uumber of registered motorized vehicles was approximately 52,500,
excluding specialized agricultural, Industrial and other vehicles.
Registrations, however, Include vehicles that have been scrapped,
otherwise rendered inoperative, or simply not licensed during a
particular year. Available data on vehicles licensed for use on public
roads, totalling about 37,200 In 1984, excluding specialized vehicles
(see Appendix 4), Indicate annual growth of about 1.4 per ceat.
Lieansing, howsver, partlcularly in rural areas, is not alvays adhered
to; actual growth In the wmb'r of on-the-road vehicles may be somewhat
higher.  By type of vehicle,  about  59 per cent of all registered
vahleles are carsa Includlag taxies 39 per cent are goods vehiclees and
about 2 per cent are buses.  Based on Divisional I/ data, licensed
vehicle ownership appears to vary  slightly, ranging from about 41
vehicles per thousand inhabitants In the Northern Division to 63
vehicles per thousand Inhabitants In the Central/Eastern Division, which
includes the capital at Suva (the center of licensing for Government
vehicles). Aside from the bulk of Goverment vehicles being licensed in
the Central Division, the differences probably also reflect the level of
economic activity in FIji and the extent and condition of the road
system.
14.       The traffic group within the Roads and Airfields (1A) section
of PWD has been developing a systeawtic and periodic traffic count
scheme since 1979. As well, special traffic counts and traffic surveys
are taken for the study of roads being considered for upgrading and for
determining appropriate design standards. Available count data show
that traffic levels are generally high (1,000 vehicles per day(vpd) or
greater) on roads near the cities and towns2/ and on main routes, but
that traffic levels tend to diminish in relation to distance from the
urban  areas.    On  roads  serving  intensively  cultivated  areas,
particularly those areas growing sugar cane, traffic can exceed 1,000
vpd during the harvest seasons, mainly consisting of heavy-goods
vehicles.   Outside  t1.e  harvest  seasons,  the  hea.y-goods  traffic
diminishes and overall traffic volumes can fall to between 500 and 700
vpd.  On country roads, which is the largest component of the road
network, volumes are generally low and although traffic volumes can vary
significantly among road stretches, volumes average about 100 to 150
vpd.
1/   For admnirlstrative pur-)oses, Fiji is divided Into four Divisions:
Northern, Central, Eastern and Western (see Map at page (ii)).
2/   Traffic volumes on some main city road links can average more
than 12,000 vpd.



3.   Rod ransportIndustr
15.       Public passenger transportation services are provided by a
formal sector, consisting of privately operated buses and taxis (for
which fares are rcgulated) and a less formal sector mainly using light
goods vehicles, which are licensed to carry freight and passengers &t
negotiated fares.  Passenger transport services are plentitul in the
cities and towns and are provided on all main roads and most secondary
roads. Rural road passenger transport is commonly provided by light
goods  vehicles.   There  are  about  2,500  taxis,  ehich  are  mainly
owner/driver operations; a few moderately-sized companies run taxis In
the towns and cities. In those towns and cities Where tourism is
significant, all taxis are metered; in the other towns and in rural
areas, taxis are unmetered and fares are negotiated based on
destination,  likelihood  of return  fare,  and  road  condition.   The
Government sets maximum fares in such cases but adherence is never
monltored. The Government plans to mandate metering nationwide over the
next few years.
16.       Buses  for  public  transport  operate  under  regulations
specifying routes,  fares and   timetables  approved by  the Transport
Control Board (TCB), under the Department of Transport (DOT). within
HC'I.  Adherence to regulations is spot checked by DOT and complaints
from patrons are investigated.  Operators can request additional routes
and fare adjustments, which must be fully justified; all such requests
are heard In an open forum, after which TCB renders a decision. Largely
as a result of such procedures, the quality and cost of passenger
transport services, particularly in urban areas and between major towns
and cities, is considered adequate. In rural areas, the need for the
provision of Improved passenger and goods transport was seen long ago.
However, as passenger transport demand is limited in such areas, truck
operators were allowed to apply for a license to carry both passengers
and freight. This arrangement has worked well, particularly for farmers
without vehicles who wish to accompany their goods to market. Fares are
negotiated and there is generally adequate competition to ensure that
the charges are reasonable. Recentlv, light goods vehicles have become
more common and, while this has provided more opportunity and
flexibility to rural transport operations, many light goods vehicle
operators are carrying passengers "for hire" in urban areas, to the
detriment  of  other  licensed  passenger  transport  services.   DOT  is
conducting open meetings to determine the extent of such encroachment,
with a view to formulating appropriate controls through changes in the
Traffic Act, which regulates such transport.
17.       Except for controls on dimensions, axle loads and licensing
requirements, goods transport throughout the countrv is unregulated.
There are no route restrictions and freight rates are negotiated between
the user and the supplier.  There are no Government owned or operated
"for hire" transport com-panies and no apparent Governrent subsidies are
provided to the private sector. At present, the maximum allowable axle
load is 8.2 tons and while overloading is not a common problem, it
sometimes does occur, particularly in sugar-growing and logging areas.
DOT is studying the possibility of raising the allowable axle load and
improving  enforcement,   in  part   through  the  use  of  permanent
weigb-bridges located at strategic spots throughout the country.



7
18.       Trasuport services are regulated under the Traffic Act, which
was last revised in 1978. This Traffic Act is now being reviewed by DOT
witb the intention of making appropriate amendments. The new Act will
address and Improve such sector development issues as transport
regulations, tariff eetting practices and procedures, licensing and
vehicle inspection. and traffic law enforcement and safety. The new Act
is expected to be flnalized in late 1987 and the Government has agreed
to discuss this with the Bank.
4.   Road Sector Revenues and Expenditures
19.       Road  construction,  upgrading  and  maintenance  is  financed
through general budgetary provisions, foreign loans and grants.
Road-sector related taxes and fees are not specifically earmarked for
use in the road sector; revenues are derived mainly from fuel taxes,
import duties, vehicle  registration and  other  fees.   Estimates  of
revenues and expenditures available for the period 1983 to 1985 show
that annual revenues from road users have averaged F$39 million (see
Appendix 1); annual expeuditures for roads during the same period
averaged F$22 million, or 56 per cent of revenues. While revenues from
the road sector are treated as a source of general revenue, the taxes on
road users vary considerably and the economic rationale behind these
charges warrants detailed analysis. The Government recognizes the need
for a consistent relationship between revenues collected and road use
such that charges be equitable for the various users, that revenue
collection is efficient, and that minimal distortion occurs to the
economic development of transport services and road use.
20.       A  study  covering  various  asnects  of  road  user  charges,
including sources, rates applied, cost of collecting the various
charges, impact on users, costs incurred by the Government to supply
road transport infrastructure in relation to type of users, effect on
composition of the vehicle fleet and related economic consequences, and
adequacy of expenditure and alternative sources of revenue will be
carried out under a proposed advisory technical assistance to be funded
by the Bank (see para 53).
C.   External Financing and Donor Assistance
21.       Most of the road network expansion has been funded internally,
though some assistance has been received from external sources, notably
the World Bank and the EEC. The World Bank has provided two loans, one
in 1971 directly to the road subsector, and one in 1980 indirectly
through a cyclone relief project that included a road upgrading
component. Under these two loans the Queens Road along the south and
west coasts of Viti Levu from Nadi to Suva (140 km) was improved to a
bitumen-paved standard. EEC, through Lome I and II, provided funds for
construction of 50 km of the circuminsular road on Vanua Levu and 22 km
of rural access roads to serve areas with agricultural development
potential  in  the  interior  of Viti Levu.   _EC plans  for  the  road
subsector under Lome IT', which began in 1986, are currentlv being
formulated.  Assistance for road works has also been received from New
Zealand and Australia.  The LK provides assistance to the Government
tainly through the provision of professional staff cn a contractual
basis in various sectors, including roads. Aside from continuing staff



8
support from the UK, further assistance to the road subsector during DP9
has yet to be firmed up.
22,       As external assistance to the road subsector In the past has
been limited, coordination with donor agencies was generally through
visiting missions or by direct communication among agencies, a procedure
which is generally followed with regard to most of the South Pacific
DMCs. Following the Governmente's decision in 1983 to seek significant
Bank and World Bank assistance for road development, meetings between
the Bank and the World Bank have been held. World Bank staff have
participated in most missions lvolved in formulating and preparing the
Project, including Fact-Finding and Appraisal Missions. While in the
field, project preparatory missions contacted other aid agencies to
apprise them of the Project and  Its components;   discussions with
members of the Goverment's Aid Coordinating Committee have also been
held.
D.   Administration of the Road Subsector
1.  Organizational Structure
23.       Overall economic development planning Is the responsibility of
CPO, while planning, designing, constructing and maintaining public
roads and bridges are funct-ions of PWD. The former organization is
based solely in Suva while the latter has headquarters in Suva as well
as three Divisional Engineer's Offices (DEOs)l/ and 15 District
Offices.2/ Planning and designing road projects is the responsibility
of NWD Headquarters through the Director, Roads and Airfields (R&A),
while the DEOs handle construction and maintenance functions.
24.       The Ministries of Fijian Affairs,  Rural Development,  and
Primary Industries finance construction of rural development roads,
upgrading of other minor roads, and bitumen surfacing of short stretcbes
of roads through villages.   Urban authorities3/ are responsible for
planning town and city roads, except those that form links in the
national road network, which are handled by PND.
2.   Design
25.       Design of roads and bridges is undertaken in-house by R&A at
PWD Headquarters.  The only exception to this was in relation to the
World Bank-assisted upgrading of the two end sections, totalling 108 km,
of the Queens Road between Nadi and Suva.  In this case the detailed
designs were prepared by a consulting firm. Vrban roads and bridges are
also usually designed by R&A on ar. agency basis.
1/ In the Western, Northern ar.c Central/Eastern Divisions.
2/   Four in Western, three in the Northern, three in the Eastern
and five in the Central Division.
3/   In the cities of Suva and Lautoka, and in the towns of Nadi,
Ba, Xausori, Sigatoka, Labasa and Savusavu.



9
3.  Construction
26.      Construction of roads and bridges has always been undertaken
by ND departmental forces through Its DEOs, apart from the wo end
sections  of  the  Queens Road, which  were  implemented  througb  IC1
procedures. PWD has In recent yeairs undertaken road works ranging in
value from F$15 to F$22 million annually, including recurrent
expenditures.   In  1985,  PdD used  departmental  forces  successfully
in completing the center section (32 Io) of the Queens Road, for whicb
the Iorld Bsnk provided asseitance under the cyclone relief project.
PD also caries out construction of road works at the village level on
an agency basis.
27.       Because of the very difficult and costly  mplementation of the
two end sections of the Queens Road using en Internationally recruited
consultant and  a  contractor  selected  through  ICB  proceures,  the
Goverment has been most reluctant to employ ICB procedures again and
since the mid-19709 has built up Its departmental forces to cary out
all subsequent road works. Developmet of the local contracting Industry
with respect to major road works bas therefore not taken place although
It ha proved successful in other fields, particularly In relation to
buildin, subdivision and tourist facility construction.
28.      About 30 of the civil works contractors In Fiji have formed a
Master Builders Association (N).  Of these 30 contractors, eight are
considered main contractors and the remaining 22 are considered
subcontractors. The eiht main contractors comprise one forein-owned
firm, two joint ventures of local/foreig firms and five firms that arp
wholly owned locally. In addition, there are a furtber 30 to 40 smal
contractors that are not members of the NBA -- these firms are maily
earthovers for subdivision, forestry and agricultural developmnt -
and about 20 plant hire firms. Technical assistance Is also to be
provided to also help the Government with the possible further
development of the local construction industry (see para 54).
4.  Maintenance
29.      At present, maintenance of roads In Fiji is not entirely
satisfactory. This situation has arisen due to a number of factors,
including emphasis being placed on upgrading works, insufficient numbers
of properly trained road maintenance personnel, and inefficiency of road
maintenance planning, operations and policies,l/
30.      Maintenance of the road network is the responsibility of PWD
and Is handled through the DEOs using funds allocated in the annual
budgets.2/   These allocations have remained at the same level over the
past two years, at about F$1,750 per km per year. Under DP9, while the
level of maintenance allocation will be only marginally raised (to about
1/  These are the main findings of a review of PND's road
maintenance activities which was carried out as part of
T. A. No. 667-FIJ approved on 31 January 1985 in the amount
of US$150,000.
2/   The PND also handles maintenance of roads at the village level
on an agency basis.



10
F$1,800 per km per year), measures to Improve the cost-efficiency of
mAintenance operatloans including programming, budgeting and accounting
methods, vlll be undertaken.  With these Improvements, the proposed
level of allocation for maintenance is expected to be adequate. Urban
road maintenance Is the responsibility of town and city authorities.
PND has no established organization or program of work specifically for
road maintenance. No positions in the DEOs are designated for road
maintenace engineers and PND has been reacting mostly to emergency or
obvious maintennsce needs oan an ad-hoc basis. Budgets are not based on
road  standards,  conditions  or  traffic,  and  current  maintenace
expenditures   are   not  moultored   against  budgets   or   physical
accomplishments; also, maintenance funds are often diverted to
construction and upgradX.ng projects.
31.       PD  recognizes  the  deficiencies  in  its  road  maintenance
organization  and  operation   and  is  now  setting  up  an  elementary
maintenace activity planning and costing system as a first step toward
establishin an acceptable road maintenance regile that is to be fully
functional and effective by 1990. To assist the Government in achieving
this afi, the Project vill address the current deficiencies through the
provision of ;ionsultant services to Improve the road maintenance
organization, operations ed practices and to train local counterpart
engineers in the DEOs, as wall as to assist PWD in further developing
and  applying  the  Governmt's  accounting  system  to  maintenance
operations (see pare 52).
E.   Th  3rjctAea
32.       In  preparing  DP9,  the  Government  in  1984  identified  16
high-priority rural road stretches, totalling about 175 km in length,
for upgrading along with replacement of the two major bridges at Ba and
Sigatoka.  The road stretches were selected on the basis of existing and
projected  levels  of  traffic,  existing  road  conditions,  and  the
imp6rtance of providing all-weather access between major tows and
through relatively more developed rural areas.  The road stretches are
located on tbe two main islands of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu.  The two
bridges are on the Queens and Kings Roads, which form the circuminsular
road on Viti Levu.  The bridges, located near important towns, are
single-lane and carry high traffic volumes and are in need of
replacement by new two-lane bridges. In 1984, the Government recuested
Bank assistance to undertake technical and economic feasibility studies
for upgrading and replacing these road stretches and bridges.
Accordingly, in early 1985 the Bank %pproved a technical assistance
grant l/ for feasibility studies, which demonstrated the viability of
upgrading ten road stretches totalling about 107 km and replacing the
two major bridges.  These are located in three of the four Divisions
(Northern, Western and Central) and have been included in the scope of
the Project (see para 48).
1/   T. A. No. 667-FIJ.



11
33.       Two road sections totalling about 27 km are located on Vaun
Levu, which  is part of the Northern Division.   One of tbese, the
Nakoroutari Road (5.8 km)s is located on the north side of the Island in
Macuata Province and serves traffic generated by the rich agricultural
hinterland near Labsa", which is the island's major market, comercil
center and port. This province x8 the fourth largest In the country
(2,000 sq ki) and bas a population of 80,000 (11 per cent of the
national total). The other road stretch is a 21.3 km portion of the
trasinsula  road, which  is the major cross-island route connecting
Labasa on the north side of the island and Sausavu In the south.
This road stretch cmtoncts the port and copra milling center at
Savusavu with the circuminular road and provides access to the
agriculturally ricb coastal areas on the southwestern part of the
Island. This part of the transinsular road in the southwestern part of
the Island is located in Cakaudrove Province, which has a population of
40,000 and Is the largest province in Fiji (Z,800 sq km). Most of the
employed populaton (69 per cent) Is In the primry sector, producing
copras, cocoa, beef and yaqona.lI Future developmet Is expected sainly
In agriclture and fisheries, .-entered around the port and copra millins
facilities.
34.       Us other eight road stretches are on the main island of Vilti
Lws, two In the Central Dilvision and six In the Western Division. The
two major bri4ges to be replaced under the Project are both it the
Western Division. The two roads in the Central Division comprise an
18.5 hk stretch of the Kins Road and 21.9 km of the Princes goad. The
Kinss toad forms the eastern and part of the northern section of the
Viti Lovu cct   ular road; the Queens Road forms the other part. The
Princes toad connects Suva with the regional market center at Nausort
and joins the Klngs load at that point. The Central Division, comprising
the eastern third of Vitl Levu, contails half of the Island's
population.   The Central Division is 65 per cent urban in terms of
population and is considered the governmental, industrial and service
center of the nation.   About 65 per cent of the employment in the
Central Division is outside the primary sector. The land varies from
flat, mostly deltaic areas along the coastline, to rolling hinterlands
and mountainous areas in the interior. Because of a plentiful supply of
water and suitable land, rice is the dominant crop, followed by ginger
and yams. Transport in the Central Division centers on Suva, which is
the largest city and is the location of the nation's main port. Roads
generally radiate from Suva, mostly following the coastline and river
valleys.
35.       In the Western Division,  two stretebes of the Kings Road
(totalling 23.1 km) are Included for upgrading under the Project; these
two stretches are unpaved gaps in the Kings Road on the northern coast
of the Island.  The other four road stretches are short, averaging about
4 km, located in the towns of Ba and Nadi and serving the high traffic
volumes generated by the intensively cultivated sugar cane growing areas
they traverse. The Western Division, covering about 60 per cent of Viti
1/   Yaqona is a root crop used for the preparation of a
popular local beverage.



12
Lawn's land area, Is topographically flat to rolling in coastal areas
and is mountainous Inland. The main economic pursuit is agriculture,
vbich accounts for about 54 per cent of employment. With the exception
of the circiuinsular road, most roads directly support agriculture or
tourism.  The major towns, all located on the coast along the Kings and
Queew loads, are Lautoka, the major port and sugar willing area on the
northern side of the island and Ba, Nadi and Sigatoka.
F.  Traffic Trends and Forecasts
36.       Since 1979, PO  has taken traffic counts on most main and
secondary roads and on selected country roads on Viti Levu and Vanua
Levu. These counts are In addition to traffic counts for specific
studies or projects. Traffic growth at those count locatlons at which
comparable data are available has varied considerably, from virtually no
growtb to annual rates exceading 16 per cent.. Outside the larger towns
ad urban areas, rural traffic volues have increased at annual rates
rQangig froa 1 to 5 per cent. On secodaruy roads serving Intensively
developed agricultural areas, traffic has been groving at about 2 per
cent per amunm while to and near the urbau areas, traffic growth has
been considerably higher, rangitg from 5 to 16 per cent per annum.
37.       Traffic volume on the Kings toad near Suva reflect urban
cmuting and commrclal Evemnts which total about 10,000 vpd; in
rural areas north of Nasori, the volume falls to between 500 and 600
vpd. On the Princes load, traffic volumes vary from aore than 7,000 vpd
in the suburban area near Suva to about 550 vpd In the sparsely settled
middle  section.   On  the  seondary  roads,  traffic  volumes  vary
considerably depending on the season but range from about 400 to 1,000
vpd. The two ajor single-lane bridges, being near urb&n areas, carry
substantil traffic - the Ba Bridge carries 9,200 vpd and the Sigatoka
Bridge 3,700 vpd. Traffic volumes on the two bridges have been groving
rapidly in recent years, at more than 5 and 8 per cent respectively.
Current and forecast traffic volumes for each of the Project road
stretches and the two major bridges are given in Appendix 5.
38.       As comprebonsive traffic surveys on the Project roads and
bridges have not been carried out on a regular basis, a specific program
of data collection was undertaken during the feasibility studies.
including traffic volume counts, origin and destination surveys,
axle-load studies, and counts of the number of passengers using the
roads. Analysls of the data collected Indicates that about two-thirds
of the traffic is comercial and that overloading of trucks carrying
sugar cane and logo occurs on some roads.  In addition to providing
basic data for the economic evaluation, these data were also used in
preparing preliminary designs and cost estimates.
39.       Traffic forecasts for the Project roads and bridges have been
based on past trends in traffic growth correlated with economic
indicators sucb as population growth, per capita income growth and
economic development potential in the areas served by the roads.  As
described in para 36, traffic volume growth has varied considerably,
with the highest growth being on stretches near urban areas.
Significantly lower growth has been observed in intensively cultivated
agricultural areas and on other roads serving rural areas. In rural



13
areas, statistics indicate a strong correlation betveen the growtb of
traffic and the growth of population, gross domestic product (GDP) and
licensed vehicles. Since 1979, rural traffic has on average grown at 2
per cent per anum; this Is very close to anual growth of population
(1.97 per ceot), GOP (2.3 per cent) and number of licensed vehicles (1.4
per cent). As no large developments are expected in the influence areas
of the Project roads and as agricultural growth In adjacent areas will
be realized from marginal increases in yield and cultivated area,
traffic growth on all Project roads has been conservatively estimated at
2 per cent per antE throughout the evaluation perlod.l/
40.       The two major bridges are located In towns and the amount of
traffic using these bridges has been growing at considerably higher
rates. Past growtb of traffic on the Ba Bridge, historical development,
and expected future development In the area indicate that a traffic
growth rate of 5 per cant would be appropriate. The Sigatoka Bridge is
the only one across the Sigatoka River. The bridge Is located avar the
mouth of the river and is adjacent to the fertile Sigatoka Valley.
Traffic on the bridge has been growing recently In excess of 10 per cent
per amum, reflectin  the growth of the town and Its  hinterland,
lucluding the Sigatoka Valley and earby tourist facilities. In
1986, the ank approved a loan for the 81gatoka Valley Rural Development
Proj ect   from which agricultural output growth of more then 15 per cent
annually in expected over the next few years. In view of past trends
and ezpected future development, an annual traffic grovth rate of 8 per
cet bas been assmd for traffic using this bridge.
C.   RzistIM Road Conditios and Proposed Iprovemnts
41.       The main and secondary road stretches to be upgraded and the
two major bridges to be replaced under the Project are inadequate for
present and forecast traffic. Road widths are insufficient to cater to
even the present levels of traffic; this deficiency Is aggravated by the
lack of adequate shoulders. The structural strengths of the roads are
also inadequate for current and future traffic and surface conditions
are such that vehicle speeds are slow and operating costs high.
Although   the   horizontal   alignments   are   generally   acceptable,
Improvements are needed to ease curves on most road stretches and some
realigoment is necessary along the Nadaro Bridge to Korovou stretch of
the Kings load and on the central stretch of the Princes Road; both
stretches are in very hilly terrain. Vertical alignments will also be
Improved to enhance sight distances and, for some roads, embankment
levels  in  flood  prone  areas will be  raised.    Another  important
deficiency    of   the   existing     roads    relates   to      drainage
1/  Under DP8, GDP growth was forecast at an annual rate of 4.7 per
cent compared with an actual growth of 1.4 per cent. Under DP9,
GDP is expected to grow at 5 per cent annually and, if this is
achieved, traffic growth could be higher than the 2 per cent
assumed. In that event the road improvements, as proposed,
would still be adequate to cope with the increased traffic,
and the economic viability would be enhanced.
2/   Loan No. 781-FIJ for US$4.4 million approved on 29 May 1986.



14
facilitles; side drains are non-existent along may of the road
stretches and cross-drainage is often inadequate, exacerbating flooding
of the road during the rainy seasons. In addition, existing bridges on
the Project road stretches are mostly temporary,  usully of timber
construction, and In a poor state of repair.
42.       The two existing major bridges,  at Da and  Sigatoka,  are
single-lase and carry traffic of more than 9,200 vpd and 3,700 vpd
respectively. These two bridges, of 220 u and 180 a in length, were
built at relatively low levels and during the rainy season are
frequently overtopped by floods. In addition, the bridge at Sigatoka is
structurally suspect, havin had its foundations damaged on several
occasions  during  floods.  With  high  current  traffic  volumes  and
relaitvely high traffic growth rates anticipated in these two areas,
disruptions to traffic are substantial and Increasing.
43.       As a result of these deflilencies, the Project roads and
bridges am need to be upgraded.  After heavy rains, mny areas normally
served by the Project roads are ccmpletely Isolated by flooded sections
and  coLlapsed  or  overtopped bridges,  and  normal  traffic  flow  is
disrupted.  Under  the best  conditions,  vehicle  speeds  are low  and
operatin  costs high; this results In losses from umearketed produce,
delayed  delivery  of  production  inputs,   and  disrupted  normal
ransportation of people and goods. Alternative seans of transport are
not available and therefore the inadequate state of the Project roads
aets as a constraint to the further Improvement of the econmic
conditio of the local population.
44.       All the Project road strezches and major bridges are important
links In the road network.  Upgrading of these, which Is urgently
needed, will include only essential works carried out to appropriate
standards to enable the roads to cater to forecast traffic. These works
will  comprise  provision  of  adequate  side   and  cross-drainage,
construction of permanent bridges, raising of embankments, widening and
strengtbening of pavements, provision of shoulders, and laying of
bitumen-paved  surfaces.   In  addition,  the  major  bridges  to  be
constructed will be two-lane high-level structures which will obviate
delays to traffic and ensure all-weather, reliable and safe access
across these rivers. Such improvements will facilitate provision of
transport services at lower costs and encourage economic expansion and
more efficient use of resources.



15
.II. HE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
47.       The  Project  will  support  the  Goverment0s  strategy  of
achieving economic grovtb, promoting a more equitable distribution of
benefits from development to the population, and improvitg social
conditions,  especially in rural areas.  To facilitate meeting these
objectives, the Government has given high prlority to improviag the
transport  system,  particularly  land  tranport.   The  Project will
contribute toward lovering transport costs by decreasing vehicle
operating and road maintenatce costs, and increasing transport
reliability.
B.  PLroect SEco
48.       The Project consists of:
1.  gods: upgrading of ton stretches of main and
secondary roads, totallng about 107 ki, from a
poor gravel or deteriorated bitumen surface to
a bltumn-paved standard (see Map on page (i));
2. Bridges: replacement of the two low-level sigle-lane
bridges at Ba (220 a) and at Sigatoka (180 a) with now
two-lane high-level bridges (see Map on page (ii));
3. Construction/Maintenamce Equipment: procurement of
plant, equipment, vebicles and initlal spare parts
for executlng road works proposed to be Implemented
through force account, and saintensnce of roads after
completion of the Project;
4.  Construction Materials: procurement of construction
materials for road works proposed to be implemented
through force account; and
5.  Consultant Services:  provision of consultant services
to assist the Executing Agency in implementing the Project
(including design and construction supervision) and to
undertake on-the-job training of Its staff, particularly
in the field of road maintenance operations.
C.   Project Description
1. Roads
49.       Under the Project,  stretches of main and  secondary  roads
totalling about 107 km (see Appendix 6) will be upgraded from
gravel-surfaced to bitumen-paved standards.l/ Improvements proposed to
1/   Except for a 7.3 km length of the Princes Road whlch already
has a 'hitumen-paved surface; this is in very poor condition,
is nearing the end of its economic life and will be reconstructed.



16
these roads comprise properly designd vertical and borlsontal
alignments. raised embankuents and adequate drainage facilities,
suitable pavements and shoulders with adequate thicknesses of subbase
and crushed stone basecourses, and bituemn pavl" of the surfaces with
either a double bitmn surface treatment or, as approprlate, an aspbalt
concrete surface.
2.   Bridge
50.       The existg single-lae low-leel bridges at Ba and Sigatoka
are to be replaced with two-lane bridge. constructed at hbuer leve1l.
Various design options for the bridges, examined under the feasibility
study, wil be further reviewed by the consltsnts to be engaged for
detailed design and construction supervision; the nost appropriate
design alternative In each cse will be selected for construction.l/
3.  Construction/Maintenance Plant. Equipmnt and Vehicls
51.       Ruch of the plant and equipment cmprising the Government's
plant pool Is nearin  the end of Its useful Ife and needs replacemet.
Construction plant. equipmet and vehiles required to ca            rry out t
road work  using force account wl, therefore, be provided as part of
the Project.2/ A tentatlve list of equipment3/ to be procured is sbon
In Appendix 7.  Thbi equipmet wll be  suitale road maintenace worls
folloing completion of the Project.
4. Consultats
52.       Consultant services are to be provided to assist the Executing
Agency In implementin civil works under the Project and to provide
related training  for its  staff.  Consultant services will also be
provided to help strengthen and enhance the Executing Agency's cost
accounting  and uamagement reporting  functions.   A  major  input of
consultant services will be strenthening of the Executing Agency's road
maintenance organization and improvement of its road maintenance
planning, policies, programs and practices. especially through staff
training. Broad terms of reference for consultant services are given In
Appendix 8.
D.   Advisory Technical Assistance
53.       In conjunction with the Project, it is proposed that the Bank
provide technical assistance to the Government to undertake a study of
road user revenues and expenditures and a review of the domestic civil
17  The cost estimates for the bridges were based on the most
appropriate design option recommended by the feasibility study.
2/   In addition, the Government intends procuring a further
substantial amount of equipment using its own resources for
other works under DP9.
3/   Including spare parts needed for initial operation of the
equipment; other spare parts which will be required during
construction will be procured and their cost reimbursed under
the civil works.



17
works  contracting  industry.   Although  more  revenues  appear  to  be
recovered from road users than expeanded for roads (see pare 19), the
Goverment considers that there is a need to determine. total
expenditures more precisely, lncluding the level of capital and
mantenance expenditures. With regard to revenues, there Is a ueed to
evaluate the efficiency of collection. efficiency with regard to
optimizing vehicle usage and equity in terms of recovering the costs
Imposed on the Govrment by providing infrastructure and services to
various users.  A study of these aspects will provide guidance to the
Government concerning both revenues and expenditures and will provide
Information useful for the preparation of a new Traffic Act (see para
18).
54.       With regard to the domestic civil works contracting industry,
the Goverment has receatly been giving serious consideration to
privatizhig more public sector activities;l/ .in some Instances this is
likely to prove more efficient than undertaing such works through force
account.2/ At the sen timse, the Government recognizes that tie
domestic contracting industry Is particularly weak with regard to
experienes In road construction (see para 27). Under the tecbnical
assistance, a review wil be wade of the domestic contracting industry
witb a view to identifying its strgths and weakneses and constraints
to  further  development.  The  revIew  will  also  recomnd  ways  to
streogthen the industry.
55.       The total cost of the techndcal assistance is estimated at
US$170,000, including a foreig  exchange component of  US$150,000.   The
Government will provide the local currency component equivalent of
US$20,000, whicb includes the provision of conterpart and supporting
staff services, office facilities and domestic travel.  The foreign
exchange cost of the technical assistance is proposed to be financed on
a grant basis.  This tecbnical assistance will be charged to the budget
provision for "Services to Member Countries."
E. Cost Estimates
56.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$48.8 million
inclusive of taxes and duties. Of this, US$31.8 million, or 65.0 per
cent, is the foreign exchange cost (including interest and other charges
on the loans during construction of US$4.6 million). The local currency
cost  is US$17.0 million equivalent,  or about  35.0 per  cent.   The
estimates are summarized in Table 1.
1/ Construction of public buildings is mostly carried out by the
private sector.
2/   Mainly for this reason, the Government prefers to have the
civil works for the most expensive road stretch (Nadaro Bridge
to Korovou) undertaken through a contract awarded following ICB
procedures.



1B
Table 1: SUMar of Project Costs -
Foreign          Local
Item              Currency          Currency b/   Total
I.   Base Cost
1.   tod Works                      7.922           10.244          18.166
2.   Major Bridges                  3.267            1.400           4.667
3.   Plant/Equipment/Vehicles       6.924              -             6.924
4.   materials c/                   1.358              -             1.358
5.   Consultant Services            1.706            0.569           2.275
6.  eIght-of-Way                      -              0.110           0.110
Subtotal                21. 177         123T3
II.  Continaencies
7.  Physical d/                     2.138            1.850          3.988
S.  Price Escalatlon e/             3.885            2.827           6.712
Subtotal                  6.023           4.677          10.700
I11. Interest and Other Charges
during Construction
9.  IDC on Bank loan f/             2.200                            2.200
10.  IDC on World Bank loan  2i400                                   2.40
Subtotal                  4.600              -            4.600
Total Project Cost       31.800           17.000         48.800
a7   Base costs are at December 1985 prices.
b/   Inclusive of duties and taxes estimated at US$3.9 million.
c/   The foreign exchange cost includes materials such as bitumen,
guardrails, gabions etc. Locally produced materials are included
in the civil works c"at.
d/   At 15 per cent for Items 1, 2, 4 and 5, as cost estimates are based
on preliminary designs.
e/   Price escalation is applied to Items 1 through 5 at the following
estimated annual percentage rates:
1986      1987       1988      1989      1990
Foreign Costs              7.        7.0                  7.77
Local Costs                5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0
f/   Interest on the Bank loan of 7.65 per cent per annum and commitment
charge of 0.75 per cent per annum.
jl Interest on the World Bank loan at 8.23 per ceant per annum and
commitment charge of 0.75 per cent per annum.



19
57.       The  estimtes  of  quantities  and  costs  of  civil  works.
comprising the road stretches and major bridges, have been derived from
preliminary designs.  These cost estimates have been compared with
similar items of work in the country and in other :ountries in the South
Pacific  Region.   The  cost  of  plant,  equipment  and  vehicles  for
construction tbrough force account reflects December 1985 market prices
aud has been included as a separate item in Table 1. The local cost of
civil works comprises labor, locally produced materials, overheads,
taxes and duties. Laud acqulsition costs are expected to be ma1?. The
estimated forelgn excbhge cost of consultant services includes
remuneration, international travel and other expenses, and takes into
account the duration and costs of similar services in the Region.
F.   Financin  Plan
58.       The total foreign exchange cost of the Project is estimated to
be US$31.8 aillion (US$27.2 million excluding US$4.6 million for
interest and other changes on the loans during construction (IDC)). The
Government has requested that the Bank provide a loan from its ordinary
capital resources in the amnt of US$13.6 million to cover part of the
foreign exchange cost of the Project. It is expected that the balance
of the foreign exchange cost   (excluding IDC) amounting to US$13.6
million will be provided by the World Bank oan a co-financg basis. 1/
The Goverment will keep the Bank fully informed of all developments
with regard to ce-financing of the Project.  Arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank with regard to the provision of the World Bank loan
wil1 be a condition of loan effectiveness.2/ It Is proposed that a loan
of US$13.6 million be provided from tbe Bank's ordinary capital
resources to cover part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project. An
amortization period of 24 years, including a grace period of four years,
is considered appropriate for the proposed loau in view of the
implementation period of four years for civil works and the assumed
economic life of the roads of 20 years.  The Borrower will be Fiji and
the Government has assured the Bank that it will make the proceeds of
the loan available to the Executing Agency on a timely basis through
budgetary appropriations. The Government has also assured the Bank that
funds in addition to the loan proceeds and co-financing required to
implement the Project in accordance with the agreed implementation
schedule will be provided by the Borrower.3/ Based on the foregoing,
the financing plan will be as in Table 2.
1/  The World Bank is expected to approve its loan in December 1986.
2/ Loan Agreement, Section 6.01. The standard agreements between
the Bank and the World Bank with regard to the Bank being
responsible for administration of Projects in the South Pacific,
including the Bank's procurement procedures with the exception
of eligibility requirements, will be followed.
3./ Agreement, Section 4.02(a).



20
Table 2: Fnc       im
Foreign       Local                  Per
Source           Currency     Currency    Total        Cent
Bank               13.6          -         13.6        28
IBRD               13.6          -        13.6         28
Goverment           4.6         17.0       21.6        44
Total          31.8         17.0      48.8        100
aI   Represents Interest and other charges on the Bank and World Bank
loans,  hich wil  be financed by the Governmnt from its owm
reources.
C.   Environmental, Road Safety and Energ Aspects
59.       Upgrading of the Project roads and construction of the two
maJor bridges are not expected to hame any significat adverse impact
upon the er        t.  The road upgrading will generally follow existtig
alignts, thog  some realignment will be necessary whlch wiln  entall
the use of additional  land.  Raising  embankments and  constructing
adequate drainage facilities will alleviate problems associated with
periodic flooding.   Areas will be designated  for the duping  and
spreading of any surplus earth materials from roadway excavations; this
winl minimise adverse effects on vegetation. Areas from which naturally
occurring construction materials are extracted will be shaped, provided
with proper drainage and grassed as necessary on completion of the work.
Upgrading of the roads from gravel-surfaced to bitumen-paved standards
will eliminate problems associated with dust, which is severe in the dry
season; road safety will be enhanced as the dust seriously reduces sight
distances and Is hazardous to traffic.  The minimization of possible
environmental damage will be among the responsibilities of the
consultants assisting the Executing Agency with Project implementation.
In addition, improved alignments, sight distances, carriageway and
shoulder widths and road surfaces tend to reduce the frequency of
accidents. With improved alignments and road surfaces, fuel consumption
will decrease; however, the expected increase in vehicle speeds will
render such savings low in magnitude.



21
IV. PROJECT IMPL1EMNTATION
A.  ExeS_atin                               .. z
60.      The Public Works Department (PWD) within MCTW  li  be the
Executing Agency for the Project.  PWD has a Permanent Secretary, Vork.
and Transport (WT), assisted by a Deputy Secretary  (W&T).  PWD's
structure of iaadquarters and three Divisions, further subdivided Into
Districts. is vell established. The Permanent Secretary is responsible
for desig work through three Directors: Roads and Airfields (t&A),
uildlng and Architecture, and Water and Sewerage. Three Divilional
Engineers (Western, Northern and Central/Eastern) are responsible
tbrough the Deputy Secretary to the Perment Secretary for operational
matters.   Each  Divisional  Engineer  handle#  all  construction  and
ai'tenamme activities related to roads. water supply, sewerage, public
buidlws and rual electrification, as well as management and control
of plant and equipment, workshop facilities and personnel within the
respective Divisions  (see Appendix  9 for the Project Organiatio
Chart) . At present, PUD ba an established staff strength of 767,
Includlg 28 engineers, 11 of whom are expatriates. The remaining
establied  staff  is  largely  composed  of  architects,  supervisors,
technical officers, forema, surveyors and clerical and administrative
personnel. Tuporary employees, numbering about 2,000, maily comprise
eadin   bands, operators,  drivers, laborers and some clerical and
administrative  personnel.  PUD's  organizational  structure  has been
effective, but because many young,9 qualified, trained local staff
coutinue to seek employment abroad, it is expected to be several years
before an established positions can be filled by qualified local staff.
61.       Within PWD, R&A  undertakes the survey and design of roads and
bridges. Construction and maintenance of roads is normally carried out
through the DEOs and their depots in the Districts.  In the case of
major road works, Road Construction Units (RCUs) have been established
within  the  DEOs,  responsible   for  operational,   technical   and
administrative matters. These RCUs are formed by using some established
staff, recruitlng staff nn a contract basis, directly employing
laborers, purchasing new equipment, renting some existing equipment from
the Government plant pool, and hiring other equipment from the private
sector. Routine and preventive maintenance for plant and equipment are
carried out in workshops established on site by the RCUs while major
repairs are undertaken in Divisional workshops.
62.       In each Division a Mechanical Engineer is responsible to the
Divisional Engineer for the maintenanct, and operation of all PWD plant,
equipment and vehieles assigned to that particular Division. Divisional
workshops and plant pools operate independently of each other, under the
Mechanical Engineers. The plant pools are responsible for administering
the hire of all plant, equipment and vehicles to the field operation
sections, while workshops handle all plant, equipment and vehicle repair
and maintenance. The workshops are well-equipped and the workshop staff
have been trained to handle all major repairs and plant rebuilding
needs. An established procedure exists for training professional and



22
subprofesAional staff (including overseas degree and diploma courses)
and an apprenticeship scheme is operpted for employees in the mechanical
trades.
B.   mpleamentation Arr rgments
63.      Within PND the overall responsibility for implemnutlng the
Project will rest with the Permanent Secretary (W&T), while day-to-day
direction of all Project components vill be bandled by the Deputy
Secretary (WT) who will be assisted by consultants to be engaged under
the Project. The Dlrector (R&A) iill be responsible for design and
necessary documetation for all road works to be carried out through
force account.11
64.       Because of size and location near Suva, the main road stretch
from Nadaro Bridge to Korovou, wbich is 18.5.bm long and estimated to
cost US$6.4 million, Is suitable for upgrading by a contractor selected
through ICB procedures. A consulting firm will be engaged to undertae
detailed deslg  and supervie construction of thli  road stretch.  The
rmining road works, scattered throughout the two main islandst are
acre suitable for Implemtation by force account although two of thes
stretches am longer than the Nadaro Bridge to Korovou stretch, i.e.,
the Priuces toad on Vitt Lvu (21.9 hk), costing US$6.3 million, and the
trausinsular road on Vanu  Levu (21.3 km), costing US$2.3 million. The
Princes Road passes through built-up areas of Suva but plans showing the
location of undergroud services are not available; these undergroud
utility hUes will have to be located and moed during constructIon.
This would cause extenslve disruptions to construction operationas,
leading to substantial additional costs if undertaken by a contractor.
This work, therefore, would best be met and costs minimized through the
flexibility provided by force account operations whereby construction
personnel and equipment  can be  easily  re-assigned  until  full-scale
operations can be resumed following disruptions. The transinsular road
is relatively isolated, being on Vanua Levu; the cost of upgrading this
road Is low, as the majority of earthworks and drainage structures were
completed by PWD within the past few years. This component, therefore,
would not be suitable for international bidding. The remaining road
stretches to be upgraded are short, scattered and of low cost, which
again would not be attractive to international contractors.
65.       The   design,   contract   documentation   and   construction
supervision of the works to be implemented through ICB procedures will
be undertaken by consultants (see para 68) who will be responsible to
the Director (R&A) for the design phase of their services, and to the
Deputy Secretary (W&T) for preconstruction at.ivities and construction
supervision.   The  design  and  documentation  of  the  works  to  be
implemented through force account is being undertaken in-house and will
be the direct responsibility of the Director (R&A). For planning and
imple'menting force account work, RCUs will be established in each DEO
before the start of the work in the respective Divisions.2/
1/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 1.
f/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 2.



23
66.       Each RCU will be headed by a suitably qualified Project
Engineer who will report to the Deputy Secretary (W&T) through its
Divisional Engineer.  Furthermore,  each  RCU will be  staffed by a
sufficient number of qualified engineers, tecbnicians, surveyors and
foremen, some of whom will be recruited from the private sectors
both locally and from abroad.l/   Plant, equipment and vebicles will be
hired by the kCUs from the FM plant pools and some from the private
sector, the latter particularly at the peak of the construction seasons.
As the plant, equipment and vehicles available from the plant pools
are generally searing the end of their economlc lives, now items will be
procured under the Project to be assigled through the plant pools to the
RCUs. After copletion of the Project, the plsat and equipmet will be
available to help boost FWD's road maintenance capability, including
that  on  the  Project  roads.   In  addition,  necessary  construction
materials viU be procured under the Project and made available to the
RCUs. Workshops wil be established on site. by the RCUs; these will
undertake routin and preventive maintenance on the plant, equipment and
vehicles while major repairs will be carried out In the three Divisional
workshbops.
67.       A Force Account Supervision Unit (PASU), reporting directly to
the Deputy Secretary (W6T), will be established within PND and ill be
adequately  staffed  to  enswe  that  the  force  account  works  are
lnplemnted efficiently and to normally accepted standards witb regard
to the quality of costruction work, measurement and cost monitoring of
work performed, and accouting procedures.2/  In addition, PASO will
carr out two other important functions - evaluating the relative
effectiveness of contracting and force account work In Fiji, and
assisting ND In further developing and implementing accounting and
management reporting measures on a department-wide basis. In comparing
contracting and  force   account,  FASU will work closely with the
csultant engaged for the design and construction supervision of the
Nadaro Bridge to Korovou road stretch and the RCUs to establish
benchmarks (sueb as unit costs, production rates, and duration and
quality of construction) by which to monitor and evaluate the relative
advantages of both methods.  The   Government   has   adopted   and
installed   a   sophisticated computerized accounting package throughout
all departments.  At present,  this is being used to a degree that
permits overall costs of a particular job to be determined, but does not
cost individual units of work or their composition.  In this regard,
FASU will assist in further developing the use of the package in PWD and
will also assist in amending and revising management reporting systems
as necessary.
C.   Consultant Services
68.       Consultants will be provided to assist In implementing the
Project.   The consultants will be engaged to review and revise designs
and contract documents as necessary, to assist PWD in prequalifying
1/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 2.
2/ Establishment of the FASU will be a condition to enable force
account civil works to become eligible for disbursements under
the loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 3).



24
contractors, tendering and awarding contracts, and to supervise civil
works coustruction on the Nadaro Bridge to Korovou stretch of the Kings
Road and on the Sigatoka and Ba Bridges.  These  services will be
provided by flrms experienced in the design and construction of roads
and bridges. Four individual consultants will also be egaged by the
Govermwnt  to  staff  FASU, which  will  provide  overall  construction
supervision of force account works, improve sanagement reporting and
cost accounting systems, and evaluate the relative merits of force
account and contracting methods of undertaking construction in Fiji. In
additio, three Individual consultants experienced in road maintenance
management, programing and operations will be engaged and will be
attached, one eacb, to the Western, Central/Eastern and Northern DEOs,
to lprove the country's road maintenance capabilities. The maintenance
engineer attached to the Central/Eastern Division will act as the
Principal Road Maintenance Engineer and will be responsible to the
Deputy Secretary  MT).  These consultant road malntenance, eineers
will be assiged counterpart engineers who will be suitably trained by
the conslatants to take over road maintenance responsibilities at the
expiration of the consultants' engagement.l/ To ensure that civil works
under the Project ay be fully iaplementet witehi the period of DP9 and
to  mazimize  the  services  of  the  road  minteance  consultants  in
mprovig the road maitenan ce capabilities of ND, the Bank has agreed
to the Govermenat's request for advance action to recruit consultantes.2/
All consultants will be engaged In accordance with the Bank's Guldelines
on the Use of Consultants.3/
D.  Procuremnt
69.       Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement.4/ In this regard, civil works contracts for
the construction of the Nbdaro Bridge to Korovou stretch of the Kings
Road and the major bridges at Ba and Sigetoka will be awarded through
international   competitive   bidding   (ICB)   procedures   following
prequalification of contractors, These contracts will be based on unit
rates and the contractors will provide the plant, equipment, materials
and manpower necessary to execute the works.  Procurement of plant,
equipment,  vehicles  and  materials   (except minor items) needed to
undertake road works through force account will also be through ICB or
international shopping procedures, as appropriate. In this respect, the
Bank has agreed to the Government's request for advance action to
procure plant, equipment and vehicles;5/ this will save about four
months In implementing the Project.
1/   The two road maintenance consultants in the Northern and Western
Divisions would have a term of about two years each, while the
one assigned to the Central/Eastern Division would have a term
of about four years, the last two years covering all Divisions,
to ensure continuity in the implementation of the maintenance
svstem.
2/   Doe IN. 133-86 dated 22 August 1986.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5.
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 2.
5/   Doe. IN. 134-86 dated 22 August 1986.



25
S. Implementation Schedule
70.       The Project will be implemented aver a perod of four years
and three month with completion envisaged by December 1990. The first
six to seven mooths, comencing September 1986, will be devoted to
preparatory works, including engagement of consultants and procurement
of plant, equipment and vehicles. Construction of road works by force
account ts envisaged to emence in March 1987, using the resources of
the plant pool pending delivery of plnt and equipmt to be procured
under the Project, and to be finbshed by September 1990 after a period
of three yers and six months. Civil works for the road stretch to be
implemented through 1GB procedures is expected to take 15 moths,
commencing  In August 1988 and finishing In October 1989. 1We the two
major bridges are anticipated to be built over a 24-moth period
starting In September 1988 and finishing In August 1990. FI?lly, the
services of the road maintenance consultants atce sehduled to finlse by
Decamber 1990 after a period of three years ad mine moths. A detailed
imlementatlon schedule for the Project is presented In Appendix 10.
F.  Land Acquistion
71.       Since the propoed Improvements wil genraly be confined to
the existing rights-of-way on all but two stretch" of roads inluded In
the Project, land acquisition will be minimal.  Tbe two excptions  are
the 1adaro Bridge to Korovou stretch and the center section of Princes
Road. In both cases, the existlig alignments are tortuous and, for
these to be iproved, sonc additional lend wll be required.  In this
connection, the Government has assured the Bank that it will take all
necessry actions to acquire or make available in a timly mmner the
lad,  rights-of-way  and  access  to  lands  as  wi  be  required for
impleentation of the Project.1/
C. Maintenance
72.       Maintenance of the Project roads will be the responsibility of
PWD through the DEOs, using funds provided from PND's maltenamce
budgets. The Government has assured the Bank that the Project roads
will be properly maintained after their improvement.2/ In view of the
Government's awareness of the current unsatisfactory state of road
maintenance and the reasons for this, and the villingness of the
Government to take positive steps to address the present situat.on and
improve maintenance standards (see para 31), it is considered that the
Government will be able to fulfill this commitment.
B. Accounting and Auditing
73.       The Government will establish and maintain separate accounts
for all expenditures under the Project.   These accounts and related
financial statements, which will be audited annually in accordance with
sound auditing standards bv an auditor acceptable to the Bank, will be
furnished to the Bank no later than nine months after the end of each
1/ Loan Agreement, Section 4.02(b) and Schedule 6, para 7.
2/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 6.



26
related filoal year. In addition, the Governuetat has agreed to furnish
the Bank uaudited fimanclal statements relating to the Project within
six moths of the and of each fiscal year. I/
I.   Reportin
74.       The Government has agreed to furnish the Bank mouthly progress
reports concerning designs preconstruction activities and construction
of all roads and bridges under the Project.  In addition, the Government
will furnisb the Bank witb quarterly progress reports concerning the
activities ad accomplisbments of the road maintenace  consultants.
Also, to facilitate post-evaluation of the Project, the Government bas
agreed to prepare nd furnish the Bank, within three months of physical
completion of the Project, a project completion report which will
comprehensively cover, inter alia, details of Project Implementation,
costs and ay other informtion  that nay be requested by the Bank
concerning the Project.2/
J.  Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
75.       To facilitate monitoring and evaluation of the Impact of the
road and bridge   prvets, the Government has agreed to cwtplle and
analyze necessar traffic data and to record the operational efficiency
and condition of the road stretches and major brldges upon completion of
the civil wrko.  PWiD wil be responsible for carrying out the traffic
surveys and analyzing their reslts, and will incorporate the
preliminary fidilgs In the project completion report. A complete
nalysis of these data  ill be submitted to the Bank within one year of
physical completion of the Project.  The nature of the data to be
collected and the methodology for analysis will be agreed upon by the
Government and the Bank.3/
K.  Technical Assistance
76.       The MiAistry of Finance will be the Executing Agency for the
technical assistance (see paras 53 to 55). Recruitment of consultants
(one each for the study of road user revenues and expenditures and for
the review of the domestic civil works contracting industry) will be
undertaken by the Bank in accordance with the Bank's ruidelines on the
Use of Consultants. The technical assistance is expected to commence in
April 1987 and be completed in August 1987. Broad terms of reference
for the consultant services are given in Appendix 11. The Government
and the Bank have agreed to discuss a program of action that way be
needed as a result of the recommendations of the studies.
1/   Loan Agreement, Section 4.05(b).
I/   Loan Agreement, Section 4.06(b) and (c).
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 8.



27
L. IMplementation of Previous Bank Projects
77.       This will be the first Bank-finmaccd Toad project  In Fiji.
The only project to be approved so far by the Bank for the transport
sector In Fiji vas for the Improvement of the port at Suva.l/ The port
project bas been completed satisfactorily, though about one yer behind
the appaised schedule. The delay In implementing the port project vas
partly the result of inexperience of the executing agency with regard to
the Bank's procedures for procurement and engagement of consultants and
partly bause of difficulties In making necessary design adjustments.
78.       Such delays are not expected during implementation of the
Project as advance action for recruitment of consultants ad for
procuremt have been approved. Invitations for proposals were issued
to consdtants In September 1986 and tender documents for procurement of
equipment have been finalized.
79.       Thus  far,   three  transport  sector  projects  bave  been
post-evaluted In the South Pacific Region 2/ under whicb several
aspects were identified as requiring improvemenit In the future. These
Include project preparations, institutional capabilities of impleentln
agencies, type of pavement, consultant arrangements, road maintenance,
quality eotrol, and overloading of vehicles. Each of these aspects bas
been address"d In formulating the Project. Specifically, the Project
bas been prepared based on feasibility studies and preliminary designs.
These prelimnary designs, Including pavement design which will cater to
anticipated overloadin  of vehicles, will be reviewed and finlized by
conslttat  to be eaged under the Project.  With regard to  the
IMplmenting capabilities of the Executing Agency concerned, these will
be strengthened by the recruitment by PWD of suitable management and
tecnbical personal for the Project.  Also, consultants  are  to  be
engaged for design, construction supervision and, in particular, quality
control of the works. In addition, consultants are to be engaged to
address road maintenance aspects by being Initially responsible for
undertaking road maintenance planning and execution, and to train local
staff to take over these functions.   Further,  the equipment to be
provided under the Project will be suitable for road maintenance
operations following completion of the civil works.   The Executing
Agency has considerable experience in undertaking force account work;
the magnitude of work under the Project is similar to that accomplished
successfully in the past. Overloading of vehicles In Fiji is associated
mainly with sugar-cane and logging trucks; the Government is now
reviewing its axle-load regulations with a view to improving control and
enforcement. In the meantle pavements will be designed to cater to
expected overloading.
1/   Loan No. 411-FIJ: Suva Port Project, for US$7.0 million
approved in September 1979.
2/   Loan No. 25-SAM(SF): Faleolo Airport and Road Project,
for US$2.4 million approved in December 1969; Loan No.
116-PNG(SF): Road Project US$9.8 million approved in
December 1972 and Loan No. 327-PNG: Highland Road
Improvement Project for US$15.0 million approved in
December 1977.



28
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  Objectives
80.       The  Project  will  support  the  Government's  development
objectives under DP9, paeticularly the promotion of a more equitable
distribution of the benefits of developmeut and improved social
conditions,  especially  in  rural  areas.   The  Project  specifically
addresses the Government's land transport objectives to Improve and
upgrade major roads carrying high traffic volumes and to adequately
maintain roads and bridges. The Project also supports the Goverment's
other land transport goals (see para 1).  Upgrading of the Project
roads, whicb have been identlfied under DP9 and are accorded high
priority by the Government, vwil provide more reliable all-weather
travel, and less costly transport, and will allow for the more efficient
distribution of goods, agricultural inputs and produce. The mobility of
the Inhabitants served by the Project roads will be improved, thereby
providing -better access to social, administrative and economic
activities. Replacment of the two major low-level single-lane bridges
with high-level two-lane bridges will remove serious bottlenecks to the
free flow of large volumes of traffic In the towns of Ba and Sigatoka.
The road maintenance experts being provided under the Project will
considerably  Improve  the  cost-effectiveness  of  road  maintenance
planing, programin  and iuplmentation.
81.       The  ten  road  stretches  and  two  bridges  selected  for
Wiprovaemnt/replacemat under the Project are accorded high priority by
the Government and are included tn DP9. At present, vehicles using the
Project roads operate at high cost due to a combination of deteriorated
road surfaces, low embankments (which are overtopped during floods),,
narrow pavement widths, lack of shoulders and inadequate drainage. The
two existing major bridges are also overtopped during floods and become
mpassable. Upgrading the road stretches and replacing the bridges will
enhance the efficiency of the transport links between rural agricultural
areas and between towns and to the major markets, agricultural
processing and administrative centers. Also, improved access to areas
popular with tourists will enhance the attractiveness and viability of
the tourism industry.
B.   Benefits and Beneficiaries
82.       Benefits  from  the  road  upgrading  and  bridge  replacement
components of the Project will accrue mainly to road users in the form
of vehicle operating cost savings and to the Government as road
maintenance cost savings. The reduction in vehicle operating costs will
benefit vehicle operators, owners and users; these cost reductions have
been estimated based on the Road Investment Model for Developing
Countries, prepared by the Transport and Road Research Laboratory in the
r.K.  A brief description of the model and details of the economic
evaluation are given in Appendix 12. Operators and owners will benefit
from reduced operating costs which, since the transport industry (with
the exception of scheduled bus services and some taxi operators) is
unregulated, are expected to be passed on to transport service users in
the form of reduced passenger fares and freight charges.  Benefits to



29
users of scheduled bus services will probably be passed on in the longer
term in the form of deferred increases in passenger fares. The largest
portion of the benefits will be realized by commercial vehicles, most of
hich are light trucks owned mainly by small-scale operators who provide
vital short-haul passenger and freight services, linking rural
communities with commercial and marketing centers. This type of vehicle
constitutes about one-third of the traffic flow on the Project road
stretches.   The  distribution  of  benefits  accruing  to  heavy  goods
vehicles, since they are generally controlled by owner-operators and
manll concerns, will probably also be passed on fairly quickly to the
users given the competitive character of the transport service industry
in general.
83.    The maintenance experts to be retained for the road maintenance
component under the Project will Introduce measures for planning,
programing and lmproving implementation of road maiutenance. Although
the benefits from this component have not been quantified, botb road
users and the Government will benefit substantially. Road users will
beneflt from using roads that are better maintained and thus lses costly
to operate on, while the Government will benefit from the more
cost-effective use of its saintenance funds and, through improved
maintenance of existing facilities, reductions in future capital
expenditure for rebabilitation.
84.       The Project, In addition to benefitting the rural population
in the influence area of the roads, as well as local traffic, ill also
benefit through traffic on the road stretches. The civil works are
expected to involve about 1,600 ran-years of labor force employment. As
there is a good pool of both skilled and unskilled labor available in
Fiji, access to labor is not expected to be a problem.
C.  Estimation of EIRR
85.       The economic evaluation of the Project roads and bridges was
undertaken by estimating the cost and quantifiable benefit streams over
a 20-year operation period from the expected end of construction. The
costs include civil works, consultant services for design and
construction supervision for the Nadaro Bridge to Korovou stretch and
the two major bridges to be undertaken through ICB, construction
supervision costs for the roads undertaken through force account,l/
acquisition of rights-of-wav, and physical contingencies. The economic
costs are net of transfer payments such as direct and indirect taxes.
There are no discernable subsidies to the road subsector.
86.       Vehicle operating costs (VOC) were estimated for four types of
vehicles that represent the characteristics of existing traffic on
the Project roads.  Descriptive characteristics of the vehicle fleet,
together with the unit costs by vehicle type, are given in Appendix 12.
Future levels of traffic movement with and without the Project were
assessed by applying the assumed growth rates to the base year traffic
(paras 39 and 40).  Traffic volumes for each Project road stretch and
for the two major bridges, both present and forecast, are given in
i/   Designs have already been completed by KID and are therefore
considered a sunk cost. Their review and revision by FASU
are considered in the Project costs.



30
Appendix 5. Most of the Project road stretches are gravel-surfaced and
in poor coItdition.1/ serving rural areas and carrying traffic volumse
ranging from 230 to 2*400 vpd. Because of the relatively high level of
traffic and its deteriorating effect on road surfaces, VOCs are high and
proper road maintenance costly. High VOCs are especially reflected In
the individual VOC components of tires, spare parts, vehicle aintenance
and depreciation. Appendix 12, Table 4 illustrates VOC savings, by
component, for each of the vehicle types used In the aalysis for a
typical road section. Savings in vehicle operating costs vary anng
vehicle types, averaging about 48 per cent.
87.       With respect to road maintenmnce, It was assumed for the
purposes of economic evaluation that the road stretches would be
maintained  In  their  current  condition  with  regard  to  surface
characteristics.   Maintenace  costs  were  estimated  based  on  PSD's
experience with road maintenance requirements on the existlg
gravel-surfaced roads and economic unit rates have been applied to the
work  quantities.   A  simllar  process  was  followed  for  estimating
maintenance oan the road stretches following upgrading to a bitumen-paved
standard. loutine and recurrent maintenance savings account for about 2
per cent of total Project benefits.
88.       The streams of economic costs and benefits in terms of annual
construction costs, maintenace and VOC savings for each road stretch
and each of the two major bridges, as well as for all road stretches
combined, are tabulated In Appendix 12, Table 5. Based on a 20-year
life for the Project roads following the completion of upgrading, the
EIRRs range from  14 to 33 per cent.  EIRRs for the Ba and Sigatoka
bridges are 22 and 14 per cent respectively.  The EIRR for all road
stretches combined is 22 per cent and for the Project as a whole, 21 per
cent.
D.   Sensitivity Tests
89.       The sensitivity of the EIRRs was analyzed with respect to
changes in the cost and benefit parameters.   The base case EIRRs,
together with those resulting from adverse changes to the costs and
benefits, are shown in Table 3 and include the respective sensitivity
indicatcrs2/ where applicable.   The result of this analysis  indicates
that an adverse change of 15 per cent in the costs or benefits or a
combination of the two do not reduce the EIRRs to unacceptable levels
(also see Appendix 12, Table 6 for details by road stretch and for each
of the bridges).
1/   Except for a 7.3 km stretch of the Princes Road which has a
bitumen-paved surface In very poor condition.
2/   The sensitivity indicator (SI) represents the quotient of the
percentage change of costs or benefits with regard to the base
case values and the tested alternative values.  For example,
if the SI is 0.5, then an increase in the cost of 10 per cent
will reduce the EIRR bv about 5 per cent in comparison with
the base case.



31
Table 3
Sensitivity of EIRRs to Cost and Benefit Chanes
(1)       (2)             (3)           (4)
Base     152 Cost      152 Benefit
Case     Increase        Decrease      (2) and (3)
EIRR  EIRR       SI   EIRf      SI     Combined
A. Main Roads          17     16      0.39    14       1.17      12
B. Secondary Roads    25      22      0.80    22       0.80      19
C. Bridges             18     17      0.37    17       0.37      16
D. Project             21     19      0.63    18       0.95      16
E. Project Risks
90.       Project risks have been mini ed to the sitent possible. The
Project has been formulated taking into account the lessons learned on
sidilar Bank-assisted projects in the SPDKCs; civil works costs have
been estimated with care; a realistic period of time has been allowed
for implemtatlon, taking into accout the effect of weather and time
required for land acquisition; and adequate provision has been made for
contingencies. Benefits have been estimated conservatively and neither
development benefits nor benefits to generated traffic bave been taken
into account. Possible adverse variatione in costs and benefits have
been tested In the sensitIvity analysis. Further, to ensure that the
civil works are undertaken in a cost-effective mnner, services of
consultants will be provided under the Project.



32
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
91.       The proposed Project comprises upgrading of about 107 km of
main and secondary roads and replacement of two bridges on the islands
of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu. The Project also Includes provisions for
plant, equipment, vehicles and materials for the works to be undertaken
through force account. Consultant services are to be provided to assist
ND to prepare the designs and supervise construction of the works to be
undertaken through ICB and to monitor, cost manage, account for, and
control the quality of the civil works undertaken through force account.
Consultants will also help PD in strengtheoning Its planning,
programming, Implemeting and cost monitoring of road saintenance
operations. The Project Is aimed at supporting the Goverment's social
and economic development objectives by assistlg In the provision of an
adequate road network suitable for current and future traffic demnds.
The proposed road ilmprovemts will facilitate better transport services
at reasonable costs and Increase the nobility of the population within
the influence ares of the Project roads; major bottlenecks to traffic
imposed by the two existing low-level single-lane bridges at Ba and
Sigatoka will also be  relieved.   The quantified economic  benefits
resultin from improvements to the roads range from 14 to 33 per cent
and are 14 per cent and 22 per cent for the two major bridges. As
improvements are confined mostly to existing rights-of-way, land
acquisition is not expected to be significant.  Appropriate steps will
be taken during detailed design and construction phases to ensure
mninal enviro ontal disruption.
92.       The total cost of the Project is estimated to be US$48.8
million, including a foreign zbchange component of US$31.8 million
(US$27.2  million  excluding  interest  and  other  charges  during
construction).   It is proposed that a loan of US$13.6 million be
provided by the Bank from its ordinary capital resources to finance part
of the foreign exchange cost of the Project. It is expected that the
World Bank will jointly co-finance the Project. Funds in addition to
the loan proceeds required to implement the Project will be provided by
the Borrower. The repayment period of 24 years including a grace period
of four years is considered appropriate for the proposed loan.  The
Borrower will be Fiji and the Public Works Department within the
Ministry of Communications, Transport and Works, will be the Executing
Agency.
93.       Technical assistance will be provided to undertake a study of
road user revenues and expenditures with a view to analyzing the
efficiency of collection, efficiency with regard to optimizing vehicle
usage, equity in terms of cost recovery, and adequacy of expenditures.
Also, under the technical assistance, the local contracting industry
will be reviewed with regard to its strengths and weaknesses and
measures necessary to improve its effectiveness. The total cost of the
technical assistance is estimated to be US$170,000, including a foreign
exchange component of US$150,000. It is proposed that a grant of
US$150,000 be provided by the Bank to finance the foreign exchange cost



33
of the technical assistance; the local currency requireaent will be
provided by the Government. The Executing Agency will be the Ministry
of Finance.
94.       In  addition  to  the  standard  provisions  and  arrangements
embodied in the Bank's loan documents, specific assurances have been
recelved from the Borrower with regard to the following:
(1)  FASU will need to be established to enable force account
civil works to become eligible for disbursements under the
Loan (Loau Agreement, Schedule 6, para 3);
(ii)   concurrent with the commencement of services of the three
road maintenance engineers (consultants), counterpart road
maintenance engineers will be assigned to the DEOs
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 5); and
(iii)   arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with regard to the
provision of the World Bank loan will be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).



34
APPENDIES
Aamx                                                             !MPage
1       Expenditure and Revenue In the load Sector             35
2       Non-Hlghway Modes of Transport                         36
3       The Road Network                                       38
4       Licensed Motor Vehicles                                39
5       Existing and Forecast Traffic on
Project toads and Bridges                             40
6       List of Project toads and Bridges                      42
7       Tentative Equlpment List                               43
8       Broad Terms of Reference for Consultant
Services Under the Project                            44
9       Organization Chart                                     50
10       Implementation Schedule                                51
11       Broad Terms of Reference for Consultant
Services Under the Technical Assistance               52
12       Summary of the Economic Evaluation                     55



35
Expenditure and Reenue In the Road Sector
(FS ullion, current prices)
1981    1982    1983   1984   1985   19861'
1. Eapenditure!'
Admlnistration           1.46    1.95    2.04   2.25   2.38   2.20
maintenance              5.93    6.43    7.19   8.00   7.76   7.80
Capital       c         11.08   12.80   11.50  11.31   9.51   7.58
toad Transport-          0.70    0.87    1.31   1.12   1.29   1.33
Total                         22.05   20    268  20.24         9
2,  Relnelene
a ld Oer fe-            3.57    3.67    3.75   3.92   3.86    MA
Fuel Taxes-               NA      NA    15.76  21.60  22.93    NA
Import Duties
Motor Vehicles          NA      MA    11.35  12.21  10.80    MA
Spare larts             NA      NA     1.08   1.38   1.29    NA
TiresA                  NA      NA      1.86   2.56   1.98    NA
33.80  41.67  4.86t
a/   Estimated by the Mission from budget documents.
b/   Budget estimates.
c/ Administrative and regulatory functions of road transport.
d/   Based on data from the Department of Transport and the Ministry of
Finance.
e/   Excludes traffic related judicial fines.
T/   Includes gasoline, diesel fuel and lubricants.
j/   All types of tires including those for non-road vehicles.
Source: Ministry of Finance
Reference in text: page 3, para 10.



36
Aippendix 2
Pa-ge I
Non-Hih8ay Nodes of Transport
A.  General
1.        Fiji's  location  in  the  South  Pacific  on  a   ilne  of
communications between the continents of Australia and Nortb Amerlca
allows it to provide convenient Intermediate ports for shipping and
airlines.   Foreign-registered  shipping  handles  almost  all  freight
arrivin  In and departing from FijI.  Coastal shipping Is limted by
coral reefs surrounding the islands, althougb Interisland sh9pping Is
the major mode for transporting passengers and freight ithin the
country.
B.   Civil Aviation
2.        Air transport Is the principal means by which tourists enter
and leave FiJI. In 1983, 222,000 persons arrived In the country by air
through Nadi, which is the main international airport. This airport ls
capable of serving wide-bodled aircraft and is a convenient refuelting
stop for trans-Pacific  flights.  The second largest airport Is at
Nausori, which, because of Its location close to the capital at Suva, is
the main domestic airport and caters to a few international flights.
There are, In addition, 18 other airports In Fiji served by regular
scheduled air services.
3.        Scheduled international air transport services are provided by
nine airlines Including the domestically incorporated Air Pacific. With
regard to domestic air services, Air Pacific and Fiji Air Liulted are
the principal scheduled operators. Three other operators also offer
scheduled domestic services and there are a number of charter services
available, providing services to about 25 airports and airfields.
C. Railways
4.        The railway network in Fiji is owned and operated by the Fiji
Sugar Corporation (FSC) and is exclusively a freight transport facility
serving the sugar cane growing areas. On the island of Viti Levu, the
ne.,-ork runs throughout the flat coastal areas close to the north and
west  coast.   In VanuS  Levu,  the  railway  lines  spread  in several
directions along the coast and inland, but center on Labass.
cheduled air services.
Reference in text: page 4, para 12.



37
pevndix 2
5.       nThe total length of permanent mainline (0.32 u gauge) is 660
ki, of which 510 km is on Viti Lev.  In addition, about 330 km of
portable lines, owned by FSC, are used for transporting cane to delivery
points on the ainline.
D.  ShipRi  and Ports
6.        Shipping in Fiji can be subdivided into the categories of
overseas shipping and Interisland shipplng. Ships of various types and
aizes call at Fiji from overseas ports throughout the year. In addition,
about 200 Interisland vessels provide a vital link between the two main
Islands of Viti L"u and Vanua Levu and the many scattered islands of
the FIJI group.
7.       There are three official ports of entry In Fiji: Suva and
Lautoka, oan Viti Leaut and Levuka, on the island of Ovalau.
International sblpping to Fiji manly calls at the two principal ports
of Suva and Lautoka. Levuku Is primarily an export port for fresh,
frozen and cned tuna. Suva specializes in fertillizer imports as well,



The Road Network - 1984
(E)
Divislon         Main       Secondary       Country      Residential    Subtotal         Other          Total
Central/Enstern      370.50       56.01          910.35        111.85        19448671          77.99       1,526.70
Western              321.31      330.42          825.48          8.Y- 1.4S5.?                 116.46       1,602.21
Northern             570.30      239.80          667.59         24.85        1,512.54          10.62      1l523.16
Total        1,262.11       626.23        2,413.42        145.24       4,447.00         205.07        4,652.07
Paved                454.35       68.89           24.13        125.00          672.37           -            672.37
Percent             36           11              1            86              15             -              14
Unpaved              807.76      557.34        2,389.29         20.24        3s774.63        205.07        39979.70
Percent             64          89              99            14              85            100             86
Source: Public Works Department selected reports and Mission estimates.
Reference in tezt: page 4, pars 12.



39
Apendlx 4
Licensed Motor Vehicles
Light   Heavy           Sub-     Other
Year  nd Division    Cars      Trucks  Trucks  Buses  Total    Vehicles!, Total
1982
Central/Eastern    9,656    4,621      862    449   15,588   1,034        16,622
Western             9,875    4,594   1,301    404   16,174   1,970        18,144
Northern            1,598    2,096     529    102    4,325   1,732         6,057
Total          2.129    2369               3n &A08Z   4M§2 382
1983
Central/Estern   10,636    4,805       926    492   16,859   1,548        18,407
Western            9,262    4,101      969    347   14,679   1,273        15,952
Northern            1,716    2,242     568      93    4,619   1,819       6,438
Total          21&.614   11  163    932   a  157   4 64.0              40797
1984
Central/Eastern   11,189    5,213      809    427   17,638   1,424        19,062
Western            8,846    4,120   1,270    376   14,612   1,214         15,826
Northern            1,825    2,382     601    102    4,910   1,903         6,813
Total          21,860   11 715   2 680    905   37.160   4 541         41 701
a/   Includes agricultural tractors, trailers, cranes and other construction
equipment.
Source: Department of Road Transport
Reference irn text: page 5, para 13.



40
AppendLx 5
Page 1
ExistiQg and Forecast Traffic
COn Proect Roads and Bridg'&esG
Vehicle
Road Stretch Tb                           1985      1987    1997    2007
Radaro Bridge to
Rorovou (18.5 km)     Car                 78        82     100     110
Light Truck        226      236     288      318
Heav  Truck        142      148     180      199
Bus                 49       51      62       69
Total             495       517     630      696
tabula to Narea         Car                104       108     132     161
(13.0 hk)             Ligt Truck         161      167      204     249
e"a   Truck        236      245     299      364
fus                 44       46      56       68
Total             545       566     691      842
Rakiraki to             Car                128       133     162     196
Ell1ugto8 (9.1 km)   Light Truck         144       176     215     262
Heavy Truck        224      234     285      347
B"                 45        47      57       69
Total             541       590     719      874
Sabeto Road             Car                184       191     233     284
(4.0 im)              Light Truck        177      184      224     273
Heavy Truck        123      128     156      190
Bus                 51       53      65       79
Total              535      556     678      826
Koronubu Road           Car                160       166     202      246
(6.5 km)              Light Truck        194      202      246     300
Heai-v Truck       185      192     234      285
Bus                 72       75      91      111
Total             611       635     773      942
Moto Road               Car                305       317     386      470
(4.0 km)              Lirttt Truck       316      328      400     488
Rea-.v Truck       215      224     273      333
Bus                105      109     133      162
Total              941      978   1,192   1,453
Reference in text: pages 12 and 30, paras 37 and 86.



41
&ppendix S
Page 2
Vehicle
Road Stretch             Type              1985     1987    1997    2007
Nadi Back Road           Car                267      278      339     413
(3.3 km)              Light Truck         157      163     199      243
Heavy Truck        154      160     195      238
Bus                 17       18      22       27
Total              595      619     755      921
Nakoroutarl Road         Car                458      476      580     707
(5.8 kh)              Light Truck          29       30      37       45
Heavy Truck         85       88     107      130
Bus                 40       42      51       62
Total              612      636      775     944
Transinsular Road        Car                130      135      165     201
(21.3 km)             Light Truck          35       36      44       54
Heavy Truck         48       50      61       74
BUS                 15       16       20      24
Total              228      237      290     353
Princes Road             Car              1,415    1,472   1,794   2,187
(21.9 kh)              Light Truck        732      761     928   1,131
Heavy Truck        202      210     256      312
Bus                154      160     195      238
Total           2,503    2,603   3,173   3,868
Ba Bridge                Car              6,835    7,177  11,700  19,069
(220 a)               Light Truck        840       882   1,438   2,343
Heavy Truck        247      259     422      688
Bus              1,258    1,321   2,153   3,510
Total           9,180    9,639  15,713  25,610
Sigatoka Bridge          Car              3,094    3,342   7,215  15,576
(180 a)                Light Truck        390      421     909   1,962
Heavy Truck         24       26       56     121
Bus                177      191     412      890
Total           3,685    3,980   8,592  18,549
a,   Bridge traffic shown for 1985 represents 1986 traffic
Source: Consultant's estimates.



42
Appendix 6
List of Project toads and Bridges
Adolnotralfve
toad/Bridge Section              DaIistria-            Lnetb (km)
A. Main Roads
1.  Radaro Bridge-Korovou                C                     18.5
2.  Rabulu-Ntreva                                              13.0
3.    akfiraki-Elllngton                 W                      9.1
Subtotal (A)                                              40.6
B. Secondary toads
4.   Sdbto Rod                                                  4.0
5.  Koronubu toad                        V                      6.5
6.  Moto toad                            v                      4.0
7.  Nadi Back goad                       v                      3.3
8.  Nakoroutarl Rod                      N                      5.8
9.  Transinsular toad                    N                     21.3
10.   Prilnces toad                       C                     21.9
Subtotal (B)                                              66.8
C. NaJor Bridges
1.  B& bridge                            V                      0.22
2.   Sigatoka Bridge                     W                      0.18
Sv'itotal (C)                                              0.40
TOTAL (A+B+C)                                            107.80
a/  The Administrative Divisions are: Northern (N); Eastern (E);
Central (C); and Western (W).
Reference in text: page 15, para 49.



43
Appendlx 7
Tentative Equipmnt List
Item                                                Unit        Total
No.             Descrption                Quantity Cost         Wt
1  Crawler tractor, 140 kw W/angle blado    2    0.190        0.380
2  Crawler tractor, 100 hi Wangle blade     7    0.130        0.910
3  Crawler tractor. 60 kw v/angle blade     5    0.050        0.250
4  Grader, 90 kw                             7    0.073       0.511
5  Frot-end loader, ubeeled, 1 cu.m.        9    0.070        0.630
6  Wheel-ounted backhoe/loader, 45 kw        2    0.050       0.100
7  Crawler backboe/excavator, 45 kw         2    0.040        0.080
8  High sped tampfig compactor, 15 t         2    0.120       0.240
9  Vibratlng roller wlintercb'ble drun, 9 t 8    0.070        0.560
10  Extra padfoot drum for item 9            1    0.015        0.015
11  Pomatic tired roller, 7/15 t             4    0.040        0.160
12  Tipper trucks, 6 cu.s.                  22    0.021        0.462
13  Tipper trucks, 8 cu.m.                  15    0.033        0.495
14  Flat-top truck, 7 t w/lifting arm        6    0.022        0.132
15  Flat-top truck, 9 t                      2    0.018        0.036
16  Service truck                            5    0.043        0.215
17  Bitumen sprayer, 6000 lt                 2    0.044        0.088
18  Chip spreader                            6    0.007        0.042
19  Screening plant, 100 tph                 3    0.040        0.120
20  Crushing plat, 100 tpb                   2    0.350        0.700
21  4VD LB station wagon                    16    0.011       0.176
22  4WD LWB pick-up                          8    0.009        0.072
23  4WD twin-cab pick-up                    13    0.009        0.117
24  Concrete mixer, 400/300 lt               8    0.012        0.096
25  Concrete mixer, 150/100 lt               7    0.002        0.014
26  Asphalt concrete plant 60 tph             1    0.400       0.400
27  Compressor, 120 it/sec                   4    0.016        0.064
28  Miscellaneous workshop tools/equipment                     0.150
29  Initial spare parts                                        0*500
&/  Decez'ber 1985 prices.
Reference in text: page 16, para 51.



44
Appendfix 8
PgeI
Broad Terms of Referace
For Consultnt Services
Under The Project
FORCE ACCOUNT SUPERVISIOK UNIT:
The  Public  Works - Departmet  (ND)  within  the  Ministry  of
Comunications, Transport and Works (MCTW) will establish a Force
Account Supervision Unit (FASU), reporting directly to the Deputy
Secretary, Works and Transport to ensure that works to be Implemented
through force account are carried out with due diligence and efficiency
and In conformity with sud administrative, financial, engineeritg and
bighway  practicess particularly  with  regard  to normlly  acceptabl
standards of quality of construction work,  easurement and costin  of
works, nd accounting procedures. In addition, FASU will carry out two
other important functitns: evaluating the relative effectiveness of
contractin and force account works in FIji, and assisting PD in
developing and Implamenting proper costing and smaagement accounting and
reporting  procedures  on  a  department-wide  basis.   In  comparing
contracting and force account methods for Implementing civil works, FASU
wil work closely with the consulting firm to be engaged for the design
and construction supervlslon of the Nadaro Bridge to Korovou stretch of
the Kings Road which is to be Implemented by contract following
International competitive bidding procedures. FASU will comprise the
following:
Construction Management Engineer:
The Construction Management Engineer will be the Team Leader of
FASU and will, inter alla:
(i)  review the prelilmiary designs of the roads to be implemented
through force account, prepared by NWD; and assist PWD in
detailed designs as necessary, including minimizing adverse
environmental Impacts;
(iI)  assist PWD in the overall planning and organization of the
work to be undertaken through force account;
(iii) provide assistance to PWD in determining optimum design
solutions to problems which may arise during construction,
and determite appropriate specifications for alternative
designs and materials as necessary;
(iv) in conjunction with other staff of FASU, establish proper
quality, quantity and cost control regimes and procedures;
Reference in text: page 16, para 52.



45
Appendix 8
Page 2
(v)  together with the consulting firm supervising construction
of a road section through contract under the Project, estab-
lish benchmarks, such as unit costs, unit production times.
period of implementation and quality of construction by whieb
to sonitor and evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of
both methods;
(vi) prepare guldelines for and establish suitable management
reporting systems and procedures for constructio projects
and trla PND staff in the use of thesa;
(vil) prepare sontbly reports In formats acceptable to the Govern-
sent and the Bank, fully describl progress of work including
quality and cost control; and
(fr)  assist ND In the preparation of a Pioject Completlon Report
within three months of completion of the Project.
Soils/Materils Engineer:
The Soils/Materlals Engneer will, ilnter ala:
(i) establlsh a comprehensive quality control and testing progsr
for force account works to ensure com,)liance with norualy
accepted standards;
(it)  assist PWD in.establishing the system in (i) throughout the
Divisions;
(iii)  assist ND In locatin  and detemining the suitability of
construction materials both at source and on incorporation
in the works;
(iv)  select alternative materials specifications as necessary;
(v) revise, inter alia, pavement designs if required by
circumstances during construction;
(vi)  provide assistance to PWD as required in organizing,
equipping, staffing and operating PtD's main soils/materials
laboratory and the site laboratories;
(vii) establish material quality control reporting procedures; and
(viii)  train counterpart staff in both laboratory and field testing
of soils/materials and quality control reporting.



46
tpeneldlx 8
Page 3
Surveror/Measurement Engineer:
The Survey/Measurement Engineer will, inter alia:
(1)  prepare guidelines for, and establish, a survey and quantity
control system to accurately determine quantities of works
undertaken through force account and provide assistance to
the Mangent Cost Accountant in FASU in determining unit
costs of work performed Including a breakdown of equipment,
saterials, labor and overhead costs, etc;
(it)  assist XD In establiRhing the system in (i) throughout the
Divisions;
(iii) train and supervise associated PND staff in quantity surveying
and quantity calculation,
(iv)  provide Inputs to the Conatructlon Management Engineer In PASU
to establish benchmarks by which to monitor and evaluate the
advantages and disadvantages of liplementing works througb
force accout and contracting.
aemet Cost Accountant/Cost Control Specialist:
The Goverament has adopted and installed a sophisticated
computerized accounting package (Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC):
Software   International   General  Ledger   System)   throughout   all
departmeots. At present, the system is being used to a degree that
permits overall costs of a particular job to be determined, but does not
cost  individual units  or  other  components.   The  Management  Cost
Accountant/Cost Control Specialist must be thoroughly familiar with the
above software package and will, inter alia:
(i)  prepare guidelines as necessary and train PWD staff in the use
of the accounting system, software application and manage-
ment reporting requirements;
(ii)  establish an appropriate costing system suitable for the works
to be implemented through force account and implement the
accounting system mentioned In (i) above for the works;
(iII) assist the Construction Management Engineer In establishing
benchmarks by which to monitor, evaluate and compare the
relative advantages of undertaking civil works construction in
Fiji through force account and contracting; and
(iv)  assist PWD in establishing a plant replacement scheme by
establishing plant and vehicle hire rates, including recovery
of capital costs, in conjunction with the PWD plant pool, such
that the riant pool is self-financing.



47
~de8
Page 4
Road Maintenance Engineers
Three individual consultants experienced In road sainteance
management, policies, practices, programs and operations are to be
engaged by the Public Works Department (PWD) within the Ministry of
Comunications, Transport and Works (MCTW) anc' will be attached, one
each, to the Western (two years), Central/Eastern (four years) and
Northern (two years) Divisional Engineer's Offices to assist In
ilproving the country's road maintenance capabilities. The three road
maintenance engineers will act as Divisional Road Maintenance Engineer's
responsible to the Divisional Engineers; in: addition, the Divisional
Road Maintenance Engineer attached to the Central/Eastern Division Will
act as Prlncipal Road Maintenance Engineer responsible to the Deputy
Secretary, Works and Transport. The scope of the services will include
but not necessarily be limited to the following:
(1) assist PND in establishing a suitable road maintenance
organization;
(ii) review existing policies and practices with respect to
planning, schedullig activities, budgeting and performance
manitoring;
(i)  train staff within PND in proper road maintenance policies
and practices;
(iv) develop appropriate road maintenance programs in each
Division, and for the country as a whole, based on demons-
trated need;
(v) schedule road maintenance activities, frequencies and budgets
and develop techniques for monitoring physical and cost
performance against activity schedules and budgets;
(vi) prepare, introduce and train staff in the use of appropriate
road maintenance manuals;
(vii) prepare quarterly reports in formats acceptable to the Govern-
ment and the Bank, describing progress, problems and solutions
in developing an appropriate road maintenance regime for the
country.
BRIDGE DESIGN AD CONSTRUCTION (MAJOR BRIDGES)
Based on feasibility studies, replacement of the existing
single-lane bridges at Ba and Sigatoka is warranted.  Civil works will
be  undertaken   through  a  contract  awarded  in  accordance  with
International competitive bidding procedure.  To prepare for this, the
Government proposes to engage a consulting firm to undertake detailed
design, prepare contract documents, supervise construction and assist



48
Appendix 8
Page 5
the Government in prequalifying contractors, tendering, and awarding a
contract for the works. The Executing Agency for the Project will be the
Public Works Department (PED) within the Miistry of Communications,
Transport and Works. For the Ba and Sigatoka Bridges a consulting firm
will be eugaged and wll, inter alia:
(i)  review existing designs and subsurface data, as-built
drawings of the existing Ba and Sigatoka Bridges, and any
other available information to determine the most appropriate
designs;
(ii) recommend additional data colle-tion and foundation
investigations If required and supervise the additional data
collection;
(Ili) prepare designs, specifications and contract documents for the
two bridges;
(iv) assist PWD in prequalifying contractors and tendering for the
bridges;
(v) assist PWD in evaluating tenders and make recouiendations for
award of contract;
(vi) with the assistance of staff assigned from PND, supervise the
construction;
(vii) assist PWD in administration of the contracts;
(viii) provide training to PWD staff in the various aspects of
bridge construction; and
(ix)  prepare monthly reports covering progress of the major
bridge works.
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION OF THE NADARO BRIDGE-KOROVOL' STRETCH
OF THE KINGS ROAD
Based on feasibility studies, upgrading of about 18 km of the
Kings Road between Nadaro Bridge and Korovou will be undertaken through
a contract awarded In accordance with international competitive bidding
procedures. To prepare for this, the Government proposes to engage a
consulting firm to undertake detailed deslgns, prepare contract
documents, assist the Government in prequalifying contractors, tendering
and aui.rding a contract,  and supervise construction.   The Executing
Agency for the Project will be the Public Works Department (PST) within
the  linistrv of Communications, Transport and Works.  The consulting
firm will, inter alia, undertake the following:



49
Appendix 8
Page 
(i) carry out detailed topogrophic, geotechnical and hydrological
surveys including an environmental assesoment;
(ii)  conduct traffic and axle-load surveys as needed;
(iii) prepare detailed designs suitable for the works to be
undertaken by a contractor selected through International
competitive bidding procedures;
(iv)  prepare detailed cost estimates for the works;
(v) prepare necessary documents for the tendering and award of
contract for the civil works, including contract drawings,
bills of quantities. general conditions of contract,
conditions of particular application, specifications and
special provisions;
(vi)  assist PWD in prequalifying contractors, evaluating tenders
and awarding a civil works contract;
(vil) supervise civil works construction and administer the civil
works contract;
(viii)  furnish monthly reports to PWD and the Bank concerning
progress of the works; and
(ix)  assist PWD in the preparation of a Project Completion Report
to be furnished to the Banks on completion of construction.



50
Appendix 9
ul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Refeenc   in Txt    page m 21  par  60   m
A    InnI
E3IX 
Refrecein ex: ag 21 pra60



51
Fiji ioAo uPGnAoiNG PRoAEC1
IMPLEMEN4TATION4 SCHIOUL9                                 Appendix  10
Uu0ww of £Eaqmvu
FOUtO A=161111MRUCIO
RCU W.UNM
Rbam-#.iamp"oe
Nap. 110*Ne
iEdO....t flow
FOndA ACCOUNT suftloISLsm
4noi. C&anI.duIt
Ps.pw* Cewuot Onwnar                                    7
ICU MAX)ht UN(OCL"
Row*.d Cu,anw,L mml
Tm .jAand of CoenUeMcse
mowu-O                                                                     aIt  II mI! 
C.9uacasc.e
ROAD MAINTINAfECI
lina  MWOsos I#Wo.~' 
l.iemn'Smn
AOVISURY TTCKNICAL A$SSIST^ft
a Rod Row%   I9loom0on
aI4w Canwoitaw
Reference  in  Text:   page  25,  para  70.



52
PgeI
Advisory Technical Assistauce
Broad Terms o-f Reference for consulin  services
Road Revenues and Expenditures Study
During recent years the Government has beep adjusting Its road
user revenue measures with the result that revenues appear to exceed
both annual recurrent (maintenance) and capital expenditures on the road
system. The various taxes and duties and the rates belig charged have
generally evolved over time on an ad hoc basls and do not necessarily
distinguisb  among  the  various  road  users  or  vehicle  ty-pes, with
regard to either the revenues generated or the cost of providing and
maintaining roads for the various users. Under its Nlnth Development
Plant 1986-1990 (DP9), the Government is addressing this Issue and
wishes to rationalize its system of road user charges and look into the
desirability  and  feasibility  of  possibly  introducing  tolls  as  an
additional revenue generating measure. The main purposes of the study
are  to:   (i)  recommend the appropriate policy  for road user cost
recovery; (1i) identify the various classes of road users; (1ii) develop
an efficient and practical scheme to provide for more equitable taxation
of road users; (iv) recommend a longer-term strategy of road user cost
recovery; and (v) evaluate the general adequacy of road related
expenditures. The brief terms of reference are given below:
(i)  analyze the overall balance between revenues and expenditures
relating to usage of the road network; the analysis should
distinguish between capital expenditure, maintenance,
administration and indirect costs/revenues; it should
also, as far as practicable, distinguish between costs
of main, secondary, country and urban roads;
(ii) assess costs currently incurred in maintaining the road
network and estimate the appropriate level of maintenance
expenditure; combine these with the cost of providing the
road network and separate these into their variable and
fixed components and allocate all variable costs to the
type of vehicle responsible for incurring these costs;
(iii) compare, for each type of vehicle, the relationship between
road user revenues and their variable and fixed costs with
regard to road maintenance, and identify inequities in the
levels of road user charges and recommend revisions;
(iv) review the sources and methods of collecting road user
revenues and the cost of their collection and, with a view
toward improvlng cost ef.ectiveness, make appropriate
recommendations;
Refererce in text: page 2'o, para 7E.



53
Appendfix 1 1
Page 2
(v) revie the various fiscal instruments currently used to
collect road user charges and considering (i) througb (iv)
above, make recommendations to Improve collection
efficiency, the efficient use of vehicles, equity In terms
of cost recovery, and adequacy of expenditures;
(vi) analyze the possible use of tolls (on roads or bridges), In
the context of Fiji either as a road user charge or as a
generator of general revenue keeping in mind the cost of
collection and possible effects on transport efficiency;
(vii)   at the end of the second month prepare an inception report
outlining initial findings, details of remainin work and a
program to complete the study; and
(vill)   prepare a draft final report by the end of the study period
and a final report within one month of receiving coments from the
Govermet and the Bank.
Domestic Construction Industry Study
The Government of Fiji relies mainly on its own forces to
undertake construction of roads and other public works.  A private
contractin Industry has developed, however, which has catered mainly to
private sector needs. The Government has recently taken the view that
for economy and efficiency it may be desirable to further develop the
Industry with regard to its ability to undertake both public and private
works. As a basis for assessing ways to strengthen the industry and to
make it more effective, data concerning the size, capability, potential
and constraints affecting its development must be collected. The brief
terms of reference for the study are given below:
(i) conduct a survey of the size and composition of the domestic
civil works contracting industry by type of works undertaken;
(Ii) estimate its capabilities with regard to professional,
entrepreneurial and management skills; availability of
skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled labor; and availability of
common and specialized equipment for undertaking various types
of civil works;
(iii) review the rules, regulations, policies and practices under
which the Industry has been established and operates:
(iv) identify constraints to the further development of the
industry   considering   technical   capability,    financial
capability, domestic and international opportunity for
contracting and local practices;



54
Appendix 11
Page 3
(v)  recouend legal, practical and other measures whicb would need
to be pursued to further develop the industry;
(vi) within six weeks of the couDencement of services prepare an
Inception report outlining initial findings and details of
remainig work program; and
(vii) prepare a dr2ft final report by the end of the study period
and a final report within one month of receiving comenta from
the Government and the Bank.



55
Page I
SuMMr  of the Economic Evaluation
A.  General
1.       The economic evaluations of road upgradlag 4ed replacement of
two bridges under the Project were based on the TiL-z Road Investment
Model for Developing Countries (RT1M2)s developed in collaboration with
the World Bank and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  The
empirical research used in developing the model vas carried out in
conjunction with research institutions in the United Kingdom, United
States and Prance, and Initial in-depth field lnvestigations were
undertaken In Kenya and the Carribbean, supplemented by the results of
other studies to test the original Kenya .relationships and their
appllcability to other situations. These lnvestigations resulted In the
Righway Desig and Maintenance (HDM) Standards Model. 9DM is a highly
Interactive model and suitable only for computer applications. RTIM2&
usitg the UDK relationships, is a simplified form that may be used
mnually or with micro computers and io more suitable in developing
countries wbere computer facilities are limited and access difficult.
B.  Basic  roject Data Used for ILput to the Model
(1) Construction Costs
2.        s.ed  on  preliinary  designs,  quantities  of  work  were
estimated and financial unit costs applied to deternine total financial
cost of construction. Each of the major construction components, such
as steel, cement, fuel, bitumen and equipment, was analyzed with regard
to Its tax (transfer payments) components and adjusted to reflect the
economic cost.  Labor costs and the foreign exchange components of
construction were analyzed and it was determined that their shadow
pricing would not be appropriate. Financial and economic constructlon
costs for each road stretch and bridge as well as the Project as a whole
are given in Table 1.
(2) Maintenance Costs
3.        Maintenance costs for the existing road stretches with and
without upgrading were used in the economic evaluation. In the case of
the unimproved road, It was assumed that the road would be maintained In
its existing condition, i.e., no further deterioration in the road
surface would be allowed to occur.  Similarly for the upgraded road,
proper maintenance was assumed.   As cost data for various  maintenance
1/ Transport and Road Research Laboratory of the U'nited Kingdom.
Reference in text: pages 28, 29 and 30, paras 82, 86, 88 and 89



56
Ap4endx 12
Pae 
Table 1
Estimated Financial and Economic Proect Coats8'
(US$ million)
Fiancial  Economle
toad Section                      Lenth    Cost        Cost
A. Main toads
1.  Wadaro Bridge-Korovou                 18.5     6.40     5.52
2.  Rabulu-Nareva                         13.0     3.17      2.75
3.  Rakiraki-Ellington                     9,1     1.87      1.62
Subtotal (A)                          40.6    11.44     9.89
D, Secondary toads
4.  Sabeto Road                            4.0     0.76      0.67
5.  Koronubu Road                          6.5     1.65      1.44
6.  Moto toad                              4.0     1.01      0.88
7.  Wadi Back Road                         3.3     0.70      0.61
8. Nakoroutari Road                        5.8     1.65      1.44
9. Tranainsular toad                      21.3     2.31      2.02
10. Princes Road                           21.9     6.33     5.53
Subtotal (B)                          66.8    14.41    12.59
C. Najor Brldges
1.  Ba Bridge                              0.22    3.10      2.83
2.  Sigatoka Bridge                        0.18    2.60      2.34
Subtotal (C)                           0.40    5.70      5.17
Subtotal (A+BtC)                     107.80   31.55    27.65
D.  Residual Value of Equipment                         1.95     1.95
E. Contingencies
a)  Physical                                       3.99      2.12
b)  Price Escalation                               6.'1      0.00
Subtotal (E)                                  10.70     2.12
F. Interest and Other Charges during
Construction                    4.60     0.00
Tctal (A thru F)                         107.80   48.80    31.72
Mmi====  8minm    mmemm
a/   Includes right-of-way and consultant services.



57
Appendix 12
Page 3
operations were not directly available from PID records, these costs
were built up from basic data and are shown in Table  2.  Routine
malntenance includes grass cuttlug, drain clearing, recutting ditches,
culvert maintenance, and bridge and road sign maltenace.  Recurrent
maintenace Includes repairing potholes and grading gravel-surfaced
roads, repairing potholes, and undertaking surface patching and edge
repairs  on  bitumen-paved  roads.   Periodic  maintenance  includes
regravelling of gravel roads and resealing bitumen-paved roads,
Including regravelling of shoulders, and is required at intervals of
several years.
Table 2
Economic Costs of Road Maintenance
(F$ per Gi)-
Road                Routine            Recurrent        Periodic
Existing                   -        1,362       -
Upgraded                 856                  251             10,214
Source: Consultant's estimates.
(3) Vehicle Operating Costs
4.        Vehicle operating costs  (VOC)  comprise components such as
fuel, oil, tires, maintenance (parts and labor), depreciation, and tine
costs (overhead and interest on the investment in the vehicle). Four
different vehicle types that represent the traffic flows on the Project
roads and bridges were identified; their general characteristics are
given in Table 3.  Unit costs of operation for each vehicle cost
component were worked out and are shown for typical vehicles for the
average road condition in Table 4. From Table 4, it can be seen that
the VOC savings from upgrading vary according to vehicle type, ranging
from 43 to 53 per cent of the costs of operation on the unimproved road.
For the bridges, vehicle operating costs were estimated based on vehicle
operating characteristics on approaching or leaving the bridge.  As
traffic volumes increase, the smooth flow of traffic Is interrupted more
often on single-lane bridges with a consequent increase in operating
costs.  Vehicle operating  cost savings were  thus estimated  from a
comparlson of operating costs with and without the new bridges.



58
A.pidx 12
Page 4
Table 3
Typical Vehicle Caracteristics
(F$ economic coats)
C,
Vehicle Descriptions            a/        Ligbtk'     H1vY7        d/
car!/      Truck        Truck      BuD-
A.  Vehicle Characteristics
Gross Vehicle Weight (tons)   up to 1.5  1.5 to 4.0    11.5e1  11.5
S. Economic Unit Costs
NMew Veicle                   5,500       10,120   19,100    39,490
Tires                         30.65       48.77    167.10    200.00
Fuel Costs (F*/liter)
Petrol                      0.34        0.34       0.34      0.34
Dieel                       0.33        0.33       0.33       0.33
Labor Maintenance (F$/hr)     2.40        2.40       2.40      2.40
Crew Costs (F$/hr)        /   1.78        2.00       2.00
Anual Overhead Costs ()-    10.00         10.00     15.00      15.00
Interest Rate (Z)   10.00     10.00       10.00     10.00
C.  Operqting Characteristics
Annual kM                     10,000      17,500   45,000    62,500
Vehicle Life (years)              10          12       12         14
a/  Includes private cars, taxis, rental cars, minibuses and plckups.
b/1 Light commercial vehicles having gross vehicle weights ranging
from 1.5 to 4.0 tons.
c/  Goods vehicles whose gross vehicle weights exceed 8,5 tons.
dl All regular passenger service vehicles.
el   Gross vehicle weights of 13.5 tons used for trucks carrying
sugar cane.
f/  As a percentage of operating costs.
Source: Consultant's reports.



59
Appendix 12
Page 5
Id& 4
_mud  Cael ani    rsoA  a    b Sl119
Cot item ._                                                      MRS
hAu                  3.18       2.83       6.34        5.I       10.60      9.01      11.32      9.18
au                   0.40       o.20        0.60       0.30       1.34      0.6        1.34       0.67
TM                   1.86       0.48        2.96       0.76       3.49      2.16       4.17      2.58
SIPM Paru           5.m9        1.14      14.37       2.79    2?LC          9.55     13.57       2.14
13Ste   Imb          0.38       0.33        1.30       0.44       6.96      3.35       1.79      0.32
.72        6.43       8.29        5.81      6.09       4.23       8.40      6.10
Ovedua               LI2        1.14        3.39       1.60       7.60      4.33       6.09      3.15
1Ta Qotp.hI    23.13           12.55       37.25      17.58      SL26      33.32      46.68      24.14
Ss1s per in              10.58                  19.67                  24.94               22.54
Vdce 8w
at  per bow)        29.9       57.9       22.5        53.8       17.5      35.4       15.3      29.6
amS46                 53                      43                 48



60
eeIndfr12
D.   EconomIc Internal Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
By comparing construction costs, net maintenance costs and
vebicle operating cost savings derived over the analysia period1/ from
up2rading the roads and replacing the bridges, the stream of coss and
benefits cax be calculated for each road stretch and for each bridge.
The cost/benefit streams are presented In Tables 5.1 to 5.12; a sumary
for road stretches is given In Table 5.13.
7.        Seoditivity  tests were undertaken  in terus  of unexpected
increases In costs, decreases In benefits and a combination of the two.
The result. of these tests for each road stretch, the bridges and for
the Project as a whole are given In Table 6.
17   The analysis period comprises the construction period and the
economic life of the upgraded roads and bridges. The construction
period for each of the roads and bridges varies.  The economic life
of the upgraded roads is assumed as 20 vears; Fridges have an
economic life exceeding 20 years but for analytical purposes the
20-year period was used.



61
4ppndix12
Page 
Table 5.1
Ev8luation of EZUR
'oad Stretch  : Nade  Brldge to Korovou
Langth   :  18.5 In
E I t a : 14
Constrctio          Maintenance       VOC           Net
Taar           Cost                Savinss       Savings       Beneflts
-          (Fs am'
1987          158.00                                          (158.00)
a         19769.00                                       (1,769.00)
89        3,591.00                                       (3,591.00)
1990                              7.10         797.46         804.56
91                              7.10         813.40         820.50
92                              7.10         829.67         836.77
93                              7.10         846.27         853.37
94                              7.10         863.19         870.29
95                              7.10         880.46         887.56
96                           (186.50)        898.06         711.56
97                              7.10         916.03         923.13
98                              7.10         934.35         941.45
99                              7.10         953.03         960.13
2000                              7.10         972.09          979.19
01                              7.10         991.53         998.63
02                              7.10        1011.36         1018.46
03                           (186.50)      1,031.59         845.09
04                              7.10       1,052.23       1,059.33
05                              7.10       1,073.27       1,080.37
06                              7.10       1,094.74       1,101.84
07                              7.10       1,116.63       1,123.73
08                              7.10-    1013S.96         1,146.06
2009                              7e10       19156.68        1,165.78



62
kA edlx 12
Page a
Table 5.2
Evaluation of EIUR
Road Stretch : Rabulu to Nareva
Length   :  13.0 km
E I tt : 19
Constructioa     Maintenance    VOC           Net
Year          Cost              Sav!n;.    SavLngs      Benefits
(*000)
1987         1,761.00                                    (1,761.00)
a8           990.00                                      (990.00)
89                            4.60         563.18         567.78
1990                            4.60         574.45         579.05
91                             4.60        585.93         590.53
92                            4.60         597.65         602.25
93                             4.60        609.61         614.21
94                             4.60        621.80         626.40
95                          (179.20)       634.23         455.03
96                             4.60        646.92         651.52
97                             4.60        659.86         664.46
98                             4.60        673.05         677.65
99                             4.60        686.52         691.12
2000                             4.60        700.25         704.85
01                             4.60        714.25         718.85
02                          (179.20)       728.54         549.34
03                             4.60        743.11         747.71
04                             4.60        757.97         762.57
05                             4.60        773.13         777.73
06                             4.60        788.59         793.19
07                             4.60        804.36         808.96
0o                             4.60        820.45         825.05



63
^Mendlx 12
page 9
Table 5.3
Evaluation of EIER
toad Sttetch : Rabkraki to Ellington
Length   : 9.1 k
E I R R  : 23
Construction     Mainteoance     VOC         Net
year              cost            Say!ln;      Savinse   Denef its
-ear                             (F$ 000)
1988             1,038                                    (1,038)
1989              584                                       (584)
90                               5.70        401.74      407.44
91                               5.70        409.78      415.48
92                               5.70        417.97      423.67
93                               5.70        426.33      432.03
94                               5.70        434.86      440.56
95                               5.70        443.56      449.26
96                            (224.10)       452.43      228.33
97                               5.70        461.48      467.18
98                                5.70       470.71      476.41
99                               5.70        480.12      485.82
2000                               5.70        489.72      495.42
01                                5.70       499.52      505.22
02                                5.70       509.51      515.21
03                             (224.10)      519.70      295.60
04                                5.70       530.09      535.79
2005                                5.70       540.69      546.39
06                                5.70       551.51      557.21
07                                5.70       562.54      568.24
08                                5.70       573.79      579.49
2009                                5.70       585.26      590.96



64
Awpeudix 12
Page u0
Table 5. 4
Evaluatio  of flU
Road Stretch  : Sabeto osad
Length   s 4.0 k
l  RI   : 21
Construction    Mainteance       VOC          Net
Tar              Cost            sa&vis       Sav1ns       Benefits
1987            380.00                                      (380.00)
88            286.00                                      (286.00)
89                               1.10        148.24        149.34
1990                               1.10         151.21       152.31
91                               1.10        154.23        155.33
92                               1.10         157.32       158.42
93                               1.10        160.46        161.56
94                               1.10        163.67        164.77
95                             (p.80)        166.95        122.15
96                               1.10        170.29        171.39
97                               1.10         173.69       174.79
98                               1.10         177.17       178.27
99                               1.10         180.71       181.81
2000                               1.10         184.71       185.42
01                               1.10         188.01       189.11
02                             (44.80)        191.77       146.97
03                               1.10         195.61       196.71
04                               1.10         199.52       200.62
05                               1.10        203.51        204.61
06                               1.10         207.58       208.68
07                               1.10        211.73        212.83
08                               1.10         215.96       217.06



65
Appendix 12
Page I I
Table 5.5
Evaluation of EIRR
load Stretch : Korwombu Road
Length   : 6.5 k
I RR   :  19
Constructlou       Maintenance       vOC            Net
year           Cost              SavIngs        Savins        Benefits
(F$ 000)
1988            589.00                                         (589.00)
89           589.00                                          (589.00)
1990            258.00             0.95         149.57         (107.48)
91                               1.90         305.15          307*05
92                               1.90         311.25          313.15
93                               1.90         317.48          319.38
94                               1.90         323.83          325.73
95                               1.90         330.30          332.20
96                               1.90         336.91          338.81
97                             (74.70)        343.65          268.95
98                               1.90         350.52          352.42
1999                               1.90         357.53          359.43
2000                               1.90         364.68          366.58
01                               1.90         371.97          373.87
02                               1.90         379.41          381.31
03                               1.90         387.00          388.90
04                             (74.70)        394.74          320.04
05                               1.90         402.64          404.54
06                               1.90         410.69          412.59
07                               1.90         418.90          420.80
08                               1.90         427.28          429.18
09                               1.90         435.83          437*73
2010                               1.90         444.55          446.45



66
ERendIz 12
Table 5.6
Evaluation of EIRR
toad Stretch:  Noto load
Length  :  4.0 k
I R t:  28
Construction        Maintenance      VOC          Net
ear               Coat              Savings        Savis        Benefits
(F 000)
1988             360.00                                        (360.00)
89             360.00                                        (360.00)
1990             159.00               0.75        136.88        (21,37)
91                                  1.50        279.24        280.74
92                                  1.50        284.82        286.32
93                                  1.50        290.52        292.02
94                                  1.50        296.33        297.83
95                                  1.50        302.26        303.76
96                                  1.50        308.30        309.80
97                                (56.70)       314.47        257.77
98                                  1.50        320.76        322.26
99                                  1.50        327.17        328.67
2000                                  1.50        333.72        335.22
01                                  1.50        340.39        341.89
02                                  1.50        347.20        348.70
03                                (56.70)       354.14        355.64
04                                  1.50        361.23        304.53
05                                  1.50        368.45        369.95
06                                  1.50        375.82        377.32
07                                  1.50        383.34        384.84
08                                  1.50        391.00        392.50
09                                  1.50        398.82        400.32
2010                                  1.50        406,80        408.30



67
Appendix 12
Page 13
Table 5.7
Evaluation of EIRR
Road Stretch : Nadi Back Road
Length   :  3.3 km
E I R R : 22
Construction      Kaineenance        VOC          Net
Year             Cost             Savings       Savings     Benefits
(F$ 000)
1988           608.00                                         (608.00)
89                                0.90         126.42        127.32
1990                                0.90         128.95        129.85
91                                0.90         131.53        132.43
92                                0.90         134.16        135.06
93                                0.90         136.84        137.34
94                                0.90         139.58        140.48
95                              (32.80)        142.37        109.57
96                                0.90         145.22        146.12
97                                0.90         148.12        149.02
98                                0.90         151.08        151.98
99                                0.90         154.10        155.00
2000                                0.90         157.19        158.09
01                                0.90         160.33        161.23
02                              (32.80)        163.54        130.74
03                                0.90         166.81        167.71
04                                0.90         170.14        171.71
05                                0.90         173.55        174.45
06                                0.90         177.02        177.92
07                                0.90         180.56        181.46
08                                0.90         184.17        185.07



68
0aPPediX 12
Page 14
Table 5.8
Evaluation of ElIR
Road Stretch : Nakoroutarl Road
Length   : 5.8 in
E I R U : 14
Construction      Maintenance    VOC           Net
Year             Cost            savings      Savings     Benefits
(F$ 00)
1988            675.00                                      (675.00)
89            460.00                                      (460.00)
90            301.00                                      (301.00)
91                               1.50        225.04        226.04
92                               1.50        229.54       231.04
93                               1.50        234.13       235.63
94                               1.50        238.81       240.31
95                               1.50        243.59       245.09
96                               1.50        248.46       249.96
97                             (57.70)       253.43        195.73
98                               1.50        258.50        260.00
99                               1.50        263.67        265.17
2000                               1.50        268.94        270.44
01                               1.50        274.32        275.82
02                               1.50        279.81        281.31
03                               1.50        285.40        286.90
04                             (57.70)       291.11        233.41
05                               1.50        296.93        298.43
06                               1.50        302.87       304.37
07                               1.50        308.93        310.43
08                               1.50        315.11        316.61
09                               1.50        321.41        322.91
2010                               1,50        372.84       374.34



69
opedix 12
Page i5
Table 5.9
Evaluation of EIRR
toad Stretch   : Transinular Road
Length    : 21.3 km
E I R R   :  14
Construction    Maintenace       VOC         Net
Year                     Cost            Savinl      Savins  Benefits
(F$ 000)
1987                  446.00                                      (446.00)
88                  667.00                                      (667.00)
89                   667.00                                     (667.00)
1990                   244.00            5.65         153.71       (84.64)
91                                     11.30        313.57       324.87
92                                     11.30        319.84       331.14
93                                     11.30        326.23       337.53
94                                     11.30        332.76       344.06
95                                     11.30        339.41       350.71
96                                  (138.70)        346.20       357.50
97                                     11.30        353.13       214.43
98                                     11.30        360.19       371.49
99                                     11.30        367.39       378.69
2000                                     11.30         374.74      386.04
01                                     11.30        382.23       393.53
02                                     11.30        389.88       401.18
03                                     11.30        397.68       408.98
04                                   (138.70)       405.63       266.93
05                                     11.30        413.74       425.04
06                                     11.30        422.04       433.32
07                                     11.30        430.46       441.76
08                                     11.30        439.07       450.37
09                                     11.3C        447.85       459.15
2010                                     11.30        456.81       468.11



70
Appendix 12
Page 16
Table 5.10
Evaluation of EIRR
Road Stretch : Princes Road
Legth   : 21.9 Ia
E I R R: 33
Constructlon       Maintenance    VOC            Net
year            Cost             SavinAs      Savigs       Benefits
(F$ 000)
1987          1,106.00                                     (1,106.00)
e8          1,826.00                                     (1,826.00)
89          1,830.00                                     (1,830.00)
1990            770.00             3.15       1,221.22        454.37
91                               6.30       2,491.28      2,497.58
92                               6.30       2,541.11      2,547.41
93                               6.30       29591.93      2,598.23
94                               6.30       2,643.77      2,650.07
1995                               6.30       29696.65      2,702.95
96                               6.30       2,750.58      2,756.88
97                            (246.00)      2,805.59      2,559.59
98                               6.30       2,861.70      2,868.00
99                               6.30       2,918.94      2,925.24
2000                               6.30       2,977.31      2,983.61
01                               6.30       3,036.86      3t043.16
02                               6.30       3*097.60      3,103.90
03                               6.30       3,159.55      3,165.85
04                            (246.00)      3,222.74      2*976.74
05                               6.30       3,287.20      3,293.50
06                               6.30       3,352.94      3,359.24
07                               6.30       3,420.00      3,426.30
08                               6.30       3,488.40      3,494.70
09                               6.30       3,558.17      3,564.47
2010                               6.30       3,629.33      3,635.63



71
Appndisl2
Page i1e
Table 5.11
Evaluation of EIRR
Bridge   : Ba
Length   : 220 a
EIRt  : 22
Construction      maintenance      VOC            Net
Year          Cost              Cost         SaviIs       Benefits
(Fs 000)
1987            72.00                                        (72.00)
88           486.00                                       (486.00)
89         1,460.00                                     (1,460.00)
1990           612.00                                       (812.00)
91                            23.30         185.78         162.48
92                            23.30         200.21         176.91
93                            23.30         214.77         191.47
94                            23.30         229.76         206.46
95                            23,30         244.28         220.98
96                            23.30        384.84          361.54
97                            23.30        515.56          492.26
98                            23.30        656.43          633.13
1999                            23.30        797.47          774.17
2000                            23.30        948.68          925.38
01                            23.30      19346.60        1,323.30
02                            23.30       1,744.71       1,721.41
03                            23.30      2,143.02        29119.72
04                            23.30       2,541.55       2,518.25
05                            23.30      2*940.29        2,916.99
06                            23.30      6,133.01        6,109.71
07                            23.30      9,325.97        9,302.67
08                            23.30     12,519.18       12,495.88
09                            23.30      15,712.67      15,689.37
2010                            23.30     19,720.80       19,697.50



72
Aipadfr12
Table 5.12
Evaluation of EIUa
Brid8e   : Sigatoka
Leugth   :  180 a
I I I  : 14
Construction       Maintence         VWC            Net
year          Cost                Cost         SaVinGs      Benefits
(VI 000)
1987            72.00                                           (72.00)
88           400.00                                          (400.00)
89         1,201.00                                        (1,201.00)
1990           667.00                                          (667.00)
91                              18.82         11219            93.37
92                              18.82         126.73          107.91
93                              18.82         14140          122.59
94                              18.82         152.22          137.40
95                              18.82         171.18          152.38
96                              18.82         209,68          190.86
97                              18.82         248.35          229.54
98                              18.82         287.22          268.41
1999                              18.82         326.31          307.49
2000                              18.82         365.62          346.80
01                              18.82         556.33          538.02
02                              18.82         748..:1         725.50
03                              18.82         940.68          921.27
04                              18.82       1,132.10:i      19113.35
05                              18.82       1,334.59        1,315.77
06                              18.82       1,528.17        1,509.35
07                              18.82       1,722.20        1,703.38
08                              18.82       1,916.73        1,897.92
09                              18.82       2,111.79        2,092.97
2010                              18.82       2,280.73        2,261.91



73
Appendix 12
Table 5.13
Evaluation of EIRR
Road Stretech : All road stretches combined.
Length   :  107.8 hk
E I R R : 22
Castrmutiou       Malnteance        VOC           Not
year          Cost            sav!gge         SEE LLgs      Benef its
($000)
1987         3,851.00                                      (3.851.00)
88         8,808.00                                      (8,808.00)
89         8,081.00            6.60         837.84       (7,236.56)
1990         1,732.00           29.90       3,715.18        2,013.08
91                            41.90       5,709.15        5,751.05
92                            41.90       5,823.33        5,865.23
93                            41.90       5,939.80        5,981.70
94                            41.90       6*058.60        6,100.50
95                           (221.50)     6,179.77        5,958.27
96                           (381.50)     6,303.37        5,921.87
97                           (554.40)     7,385.40        5,875.03
98                            41.90       7,533.10        6,599.92
1999                            41.90       7,683.77        6,731.08
2000                             41.90      7*837.44        6,864.87
01                             41.90      7,994.19        7,001.32
02                           (221.50)     7,098.61        6,877.11
03                           (381.50)     7,240.59        6,859.09
04                           (554.40)     7,385.40        6,831.00
05                            41.90       7,533.10        7,575.00
06                            41.90       7,683.77        7,725.67
07                            41.90       7,837.44        7,879.34
08                            41.90       7,994.19        8,036.09
09                            35.30       6,909.09        6,944.39
2010                             22.50      5,265.32        5,287.82



74
Aaedix 12
Pag 20
Table 6
Sensitivity of EIRRa to Cost and Benefit Changes
(1)     (2)          (3)           (4)
Base  15X Cost    15S Benefit
Case  Incre"e       Decrease  (2) and (3)
EIRR  EItR  SI . EIRR            Combined
A. Main Roads
1.   Nadaro Bridge-Korovou 14    12    0.95   12      0.95    10
2.  tabula-Nareva          19    17    0.70   16      1.05    14
3.  Rakiraki-Ellington    23    20    0.87   19       1.60    17
B.  Secondary  toads
4.  Sabeto toad            21    18    0.95   18      0.95    16
5.  Koroaubu Road           19    17    0.70   17     0.70    13
6.  Noto toad              28    25    0.71   24      0.95    21
7.  Nadi Back Road         22    19    0.91   19      0.91    16
8.  Nakoroutari Road       14    11    1.43   11      1.43    10
9.   Transiaular Road       14    12    0.95   11      1.43    10
10.  Princes Road           33    30    0.67   30      0.67    27
C. Najor Bridges
1.  Ba Bridge              22    21    0.32   21      0.32    20
2.  Sigatoka. Bridge       14    13    0.48   12      0.95    11
D. The Project
1.  Main Roads             17    16    0.39   14      1.17    12
2.   Secondary Roads       25    22    0.80   22      0.80    19
3.  Bridges                18    17    0.37   17      0.37    16
4.   Project               21    19    0.63   18      0.95    16



