Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2871 FIJ
(Road Upgrading Project)
between
FIJI
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 7, 1988
 LOAN NUMBER 2871 FIJ
 LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 1988, between FIJI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MCTW" means the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Works of the 
Borrower;
(b)
"PWD" means the Public Works Department within MCTW;
 
(c)
"Project Executing Agency" means PWD which is responsible for the 
carrying out of the Project; and 
(d)
"Project facilities" means the facilities to be provided or constructed 
under the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million four hundred thousand dollars 
($23,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
Page  3
administrative, financial, engineering and highway practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months and nine months, respectively, after the end 
of each such year, (A) unaudited project accounts, and (B) a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government Buildings
Suva
Fiji
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN 
2121 MINFIN FJ
Suva
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FIJI
By /s/ A. Yusuf
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
Page  5
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category 
   Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)
Civil works
 
(a)
under 4,000,000 
55%
contract
(b)
by force 
7,200,000 
45%
account
(2)
Equipment, vehicles 
7,000,000 
100% of foreign
and spare parts 
expenditures
 
(3)
Consultants' 
1,700,000 
100% of foreign
services expenditures
 
(4)
Unallocated 3,500,000
 
TOTAL       23,400,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1987.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's land transport 
development program which includes the improvement and upgrading of main and secondary 
roads and the proper maintenance of roads and bridges.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
(i)
upgrading of about 107 km of existing roads;
 
(ii)
provision of plant, equipment, vehicles and spare parts; and
 
(iii)
provision of consultant services.
 
 * * * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1991
through October 15, 2002 
975,000
 
Page  6
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as 
a percentage per annum) applicable 
to the balance outstanding on the 
Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years 
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but 
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but 
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not 
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years 
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be prequalified as described 
in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Fiji may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Page  7
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works other than those for the Nadaro Bridge - Korovou road stretch which 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Part A.1 hereof, may be carried 
out in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank by force account under 
supervision of PWD.
2.
Goods estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, 
may be procured after comparison of quotations from at least three suppliers, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract governed by the provisions of Part A.1 
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Executing Agency for the Project shall be PWD within MCTW. Within PWD, the 
overall responsibility for executing the Project will rest with the Permanent 
Secretary for Works and Transport (W&T) while day-to-day direction of all Project
components will be handled by the Deputy Secretary (W&T) who will be assisted by 
consultants to be engaged under the Project. The Director, Roads and Airfields (R&A) 
will be responsible for design and documentation of all road works to be carried out 
by force account.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the Deputy Secretary (W&T) to manage and administer the 
assistance to be provided under the Project to improve road maintenance management 
practices, programmes and operations. In this regard, three consultant road 
maintenance engineers will be recruited and attached, one each, to the Western, 
Central/Eastern and Northern Divisional Engineer's Offices with the maintenance 
engineer attached to the Central/Eastern Division acting as Principal Road Maintenance 
Engineer responsible to the Deputy Secretary (W&T). Concurrent with the commencement 
of services of the three engineers above-mentioned, counterpart road maintenance 
engineers will be assigned to the three Divisional Engineer's Offices and will be 
suitably trained to enable them, subsequently, to take over the
responsibilities of the three consultant engineers at the expiration of the latters' 
terms of engagement.
3.
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1990, complete a comparative study, in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the cost effectiveness 
of road construction by force account and under contract.
Page  8
