Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reat No. P-4199-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt148.0 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 2.0 MILLION
(US$2.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
December 10, 1985
T hB d4 wo as reSddYkd dhtla fc *d msy be wed by recipients dy in the peforn=coc of
t dir oEgic dti IZfie so"SomX wayu not odmwkse be dwidsed widdont World EBk uShonzafon.
is .b



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00  =  Rs 15.7
Rs 1.00  =  US$0.06
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -       Asian Development Bank
BEL     -       Banker's Equity Limited
DFI     -       Development Finance Institution
COP     -       Government of Pakistan
HBL     -       Habib Bank Limited
ICP     -       Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP    -       Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
TIC     -       Industrial Investment Credit
MCB     -       Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP     -       National Bank of Pakistan
NCB     -       Nationalized Commercial Bank
NOFC    -       National Development Finance Corporation
PBC'    -       Pakistan Banking Council
PICIC   -       Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
rFI     -       Participating Financial Institution
SBP     -       State Bank of Pakistan
SLA     -       Subsidiary Loan Agreement
UBL     -       United Bank Limited
.



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT, AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan (GOP)
Beneficiaries:           Habib Bank Limited (HBL)
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
MusLim Commercial Bank (MCB)
National Bank of Pakistan (NBP)
National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation (PICIC) and
United Bank Limited (UBL)
Pakistan Banking Council (PBC)
Karachi and Lahore Stock Exchanges
Amount: Loan:            US$148 million equivalent.
Credit:         SDR2.0 million (US$2.0 million equivalent).
Terms:  Loan:            Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Credit:         Standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:         The Government would relend the proceeds of the loan
to PICIC and IDBP at 1OZ and to the other par-
ticipating financial institutions (PFIs) at 1lZ
p.a. The final lending rate from the PFIs to the
subborrowers (most of whom would be private
enterprises) would be 14% p.a. IDBP, PICIC, and
NDFC would repay their loans over 15 years,
including three years' grace. The nationalized
commercial banks would repay their loans on the
basis of a composite amortization schedule of
their subloans. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks. It
would pass the credit proceeds to PFIs, PBC, and
the Stock Exchanges as a grant to finance techni-
cal assistance.
*      Project                  The project would support the Government's efforts to pro-
Description:          mote private industrial investment and would help the GOP
strengthen the financial markets. It would: (a)
assist in development of a more efficient capital
market so as to increase the sources of equity
finance for industry; (b) stimulate further com-
petition among PFIs; (c) ensure a steady flow of
term finance to private industry; and (d) continue
the institution building programs of the PFIs.
The project would stimulate private savings and
finance 40 to 45 subprojects, which would be
expected to create about 30,000 new jobs. The
Thidocument ha a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only in hie performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



-{i-
major project risk is that economic conditions,
and hence investor confidence, would be hurt by
political and/or economic uncertainties and insuf-
ficient Government action to maintain the pace of
structuraL adjustment. Recent GOP policy measures
suggest that the Government is comitted to a
further expansion of the role of the private
sector in the economy.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Item                          Local        Foreign         Total
Subproject Investments                     150            148             298
Technical Assistance                        -               2               2
150           1S0             300
Financing Plan:                                     (USS millions)
Local        Foreign         Total
IBRD                                        -            148             148
IDA                                         -              2               2
Sponsors' Contributions                     70            -               70
PFIs                                        80            -               80
Total               150          150             300
Estimted                                    (USS millions)
Disbursements:  IBRD/IDA        FY87    M8   FY89    FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93
Annual         22.5   22.5   30.0    37.5   15.0   15.0       7.5
Cumulative     22.5   45.0   75.0   112.5  127.5  142.5   150.0
x          15.0   30.0   50.0    75.0   85.0   95.0   100.0
Rate of Return:    n.a.
Appraisal Report: No. 5823-PAR, dated December 6, 1985.
Map: IBRD 1624 8B



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO TbE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN FOR A SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
v            1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$148 million and a proposed credit of SDR 2.0
million (US$2.0 million equivalent) to the IsLamic Republic of Pakistan
to help finance a Second Industrial Investment Credit Project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate; the credit would be on standard IDA
terms. The proceeds of the Loan would be relent to PICIC and IDBP at 10%
p.a. and to the other participating financial institutions (PFIs) at 11%
p.a. The final lending rate from the PFIs to the subborrowers would be
14Z p.a. IDBP, PICIC, and NDFC would repay their loans over 15 years,
including three years' grace. The nationalized commercial banks would
repay their loans on the basis of a composite amortization schedule of
their subloans. The Government would bear the foreign exchange and inter-
est rate risks. The Government would pass the credit proceeds to the
PFIs, Pakistan Banking Council, and the Stock Exchanges as a grant to
finance technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments and Structural Adjustment" (No. 5347-PAK, dated March 20,
1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 4, 1985.
3.      The steadily improving performance of recent years was interrupted
in FY84 owing to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remit-
tances and to the carryover of inflationary pressures from FY83. GDP
growth slowed to 3.5Z as a result of a 6.2% fall in agriculture value
added caused by adverse weather and pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by
8.3% and services by 6.2%. Fixed investment rose by 6.5%, while private
investment increased by 11.52. National savings fell to 12.1% of GNP as a
result of a drop in private savings. At the same time, public savings
remained low because of reduced federal and provincial budget surpluses.
Excess liquidity from FY83 (generated largely by foreign exchange
inflows), increases in world prices, and reduced agricultural output
contributed to inflation, which reached upwards of 9Z, as against 5.2X in
FY83. Budgetary policies continued to be prudent. Current revenues
increased by 20%, largely through improved tax administration, but current
expenditures also increased because of higher allocations for economic and
social services. Considering the economic importance of agriculture, the
creditable growth achieved in FY84 suggests that Pakistan's underlying
economic structure is quite resilient, partly as a result of recent
Government efforts to begin removing structural imbalances in the economy.



-2-
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in PY84 relative to the
marked improvement in FY83. The current account deficit stood at US$1
bi'lion, which was almost double that in FY83. Stagnant ezports and lower
remittances were the main contributing factors. With cotton and yarn
exports greatly reduced owing to the poor cotton crop, exports rose by
only 1.6Z, while imports increased by 6.9Z. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the first time in FY84, falling by 5.1.   According to recent
projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remittances
will be lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$113
million. Gross official goLd and foreign exchange reserves were US$2.4
billion at the end of FY84, which was equivalent to 3.8 months of imports
of goods and services.
5.      Since 1980, the-Government has moved gradually to eliminate inter-
est rates from the economy and has announced that the process will be
completed by July 1985. All transactions will be based on new financing
modes consistent with Islamic principles. Existing interest-based commit-
ments will be honored and transactions with foreign governments and finan-
cial institutions will not be affected. At this stage, it is difficult to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization.
Undoubtedly, there will be some costs in converting the system, but
whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how the system
is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously and,
although fullv comitted to the elimination of interest rates, it has
stressed that new financing modes will be appLied flexibly and develop-
ments monitored closely.
6.      The slowdown in economic growth in FY84 marked a departure from
the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83).
Growth in national output (6.5Z), agriculture (4.2Z), manufacturing
(10.41), exports (11Z), and private investment (6.7Z), though below Plan
targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY7O-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing countries.
Growth during this period--coupled with increased remittances-benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number
of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30Z decline in the exter-
nal terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis with its
attendant expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved sig-
nificantly during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and
Government bank borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8Z and 4.3Z of GDP
respectively, fell to 6.4Z and 1.7Z by FY83. As the levels of Government
borrowing from banks dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained,
the growth of the money supply slowed down and inflationary pressures
lessened; inflation dropped from 8Z to 5Z by the end of the Plan period.
The improved fiscal performance was largely the result of expenditure



-3-
restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real expansion in
current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept pace with
population growth, and development expenditures declined relative to GDP.
Government revenues remained constant at 16S of CDP, and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1Z to 3.8Z of GNP,
dropped to 1.6Z by FY83.  Assisted by remittances, but also strong export
growth, the current account deficit fell from 5Z of GNP to 2X by the end
of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of
imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufac-
turing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private
sector were widened, most agricultural processing units were
denationalized, and sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange
rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured
exports, while import liberalization increased the availability of raw
materials and capital goods. In energy, measures were taken to accelerate
the development of domestic resources, rationalize prices, and improve
policy formulation and energy planning capabilities.
9.      The deveLopments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent wel-
come steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural
and long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must
be introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on two such issues: (a) the need to increase the level
and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to encourage export
expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan is to sustain
high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure investments,
upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social base.
The last has farztd badly as a result of resource constraints, as is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind
those of other developing countries at comparable levels of development.
It will not be possible to increase public investment and recurrent
allocations without a major domestic resource mobilization effort.
Although Pakistan should give priority to reforming indirect taxation
through a broad-based sales tax, it should also rely more on user charges,
should curtail subsidies, and increase self-financing by public
enterprises. Civen the more constrained outlook for official assistance
and the likelihood of lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in
both export expanision and efficient import substitution will be necessary
to support high growth with sustainable external capital requirements. If



-4-
trade performance is to be improved, structural adjustment must be con-
tinued and strengthened in the key sectors of agriculture, industry, and
energy. Both agriculture and industry have considerable potential for
increased exports and some degree of efficient import substitution. In
energy, the accelerated development of Pakistan's under-exploited resour-
ces can contribute considerably to the reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture. high growth has been largely the result of
increased acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by
those of progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural produc-
tivity and diversification can be increased, institutional support must be
strengthened, appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the
core investment program identified and implemented. More effective
institutional support should be sought through improvements in the quality
and quantity of services to farmers. In particular, strengthening the
seed program requires more efficient seed multiplication and
dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector plants, and a greater
role for the private sector. The delivery of agricultural credit also
needs to be improved to ensure that it actually reaches small farmers and
tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Furthermore, marketing costs
need to be reduced and research and extension services strengthened.
Agricultural pricing policies should create appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop approaches to pricing
should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production approach currently
used. Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is
needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorities.
Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between
agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs
that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the
supply of physical infrastructure.
11.     If Pakistan is to increase and diversify its manufactured export
base and encourage efficient import substitution, industrial incentives
must be rationalized to reduce both the level and dispersion of effective
protection rates. The objective here is to increase the efficiency of the
industrial sector by exposing protected producers to greater foreign
competition and to reduce the anti-export bias inherent in the present
incentives.  In addition, the Government should reform the regulations
affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing. It should limit
sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most invest-
ment decisions to the private sector, which is better able to assess
investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements, which provide
insufficient incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiency,
should be replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect
supply/demand conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment
and operational efficiency.



-5-
12.     tssues that need to be addressed in the energy mactor pertain to
three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c)
institutional strengthening. To date, the Government's power generation
program, as well as other investments in the sector, have not been based
on a long-term least-cost development plan. Given the likelihood of
domestic resource constraints and persistent power shortages, the
Government should ensure that future investments conform to such a plan
and that a core investment program is insulated from uncertainties
inherent in the budgeting process. The present gas producer pricing
formula for new discoveries should be adjusted to provide adequate incen-
tives to attract private sector exploration. Because consumer gas prices
were kept artificially low to encourage the substitution of gas for
imported oil, relative prices have become distorted and the use of gas
uneconomic. The Government's policy is to increase gas prices until they
reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88; thus since 1982, price
increases have averaged 15X per annum in dollar terms. The Government
needs to meet its FY88 objective and move to full parity as soon there-
after as possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below the
long-run marginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only
to ensure the efficient use of electricity and encourage energy
conservation, but also to mobilize the substantial additional funds
required by the power investment program. Finally, the Government should
consider increasing the autonomy of public enterprises in the energy
sector to improve their efficiency and should continue to strengthen
energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic
strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an
expanded role for the private sector, increased public development
expenditures, and increased allocations for energy, agriculture,
irrigation, and the social sectors. Although the size and composition of
the Plan are appropriate, development expenditures during the first two
years of the Plan have been 9% lower than the amounts projected because of
insufficient domestic resources. Although this would not appear overly
large, the way in which sectoral shortfalls have been distributed con-
tradicts Plan priorities. Education, energy, health, and agriculture have
received considerably lower allocations than called for in the Plan.
Furthermore, without a predefined core investment program, there is a
tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly over a large number of projects
within a sector; thus too many projects have been initiated, and projects
*         that should receive priority are underfunded.  To address this issue, the
Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority Investment Program
CFY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adoption of a rolling
-         medi=m-term program does not mean that plan strategies and priorities are
being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable. The program
will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be given
priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.



-6-
14.     Despite a temporary setback in FY84, the improved performance and
policy framework of the Fifth Plan, which the Government intends to con-
tinue during the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for
a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commercial borrowing. At the end of
1983, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the undisbursed pipeline)
stood at US$9.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion was owed to bilateral
members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC, US$2 billion
to multilateral agencies, and the baLance to other bilateral and private
lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's external
public indebtedness was 15.3%, and in external debt service it was 7.0Z.
According to Bank projections, if recent policy improvements are sustained
and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service will remain below
15% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher levels of
commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.    As of September 30, 1985, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately
US$3.7 billion, and IFC's investments totalled $193.5 million. (Annex II
contains a summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the -economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 20-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30Z of
total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and
irrigation; 28% for industry, including import program credits; 18% for
transport, telecommunications, and public utility services; 14Z for
energy, including power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social
programs in education, population, and urban development; and 5% for
structural adjustment lending and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy relorms
in three sectors-energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from
adjustment are susta5ned in the long term and shared more broadly, the
strategy also includes investments in physical infrastructure and the
social sectors (education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in
Pakistan's development efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full
range of traditional instruments of Bank support must be flexibly
deployed--from sector work and active policy dialogue, to policy- and
project-based lending, technical assistance and aid coordination. The
Bank Group's lending program comprises two components, the larger of which
supports specific high-priority investments in productive sectors and



-7-
physicaL and social infrastructure. The smaller but nonetheless strategic
component focuses on policy reforms in the key sectors of agriculture,
industry, and energy and relie, heavily on high-quality economic and
sector work. The program includes a series of technical assistance
credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for policy
reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. in addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum,
the Bank Group tries to foster greater understanding on the part of
Consortium members of the Government's structural adjustment program and
aid requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness of other official aid and
help attract additional resources to Pakistan irom nonconcessional
sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lend-
ing for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The
Bank and the Government have agreed that the main objective of the
agricultural strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be
to increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the
efficiency of the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services.
Among the issues being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation
projects and projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input
and output prices, marketingg, improvements in operation and maintenance,
cost recovery, and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the
sector have ranged from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs,
research, and extension and have included institution-building components.
Overall, progress in agriculture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has
been designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to
promoting export expansion and import substitution. Issues being
addressed include trade and industrial incentives, dereguLation,
efficiency of public enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in
the credit delivery system and capital markets. Lines of credit extended
to development finance institutions and other financial intermediaries
have been mainly for the private sector. Direct lending for industry has
also included assistance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery
engineering loan. IFC's investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises were by
way of loans (US$182 million) and equity participation (US$11.3 million);
these are shown in Annex II. Although individual operations have
generally achieved their objectives, the agenda for overall industrial
reform remains formidable.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, our lending program
in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective here is to expand



-8-
the domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase
the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation,
and other methods of managing demand. No less central have been the
efforts to strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank
has helped both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation and the Water and
Power Development Authority to finance their power generation and trans-
mission programs. The construction of the Mangla and Tarbela dams under
the Indus Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership
role, has also assisted in achieving the objectives of the sector
strategy. In oil and gas, the Bank has financed a sound exploration and
development program and has assisted in developing the extensive gas
transmission system. Smaller efforts, involving mainly engineering
studies and technical assistance, have been undertaken to support coal
exploration, energy audits, and oil refining. Despite much progress,
however, the Bank will need to continue participating in institution
building and help the Govertment mobilize adequate funds for energy
investments through tariffs, co-financing, and greater private seccor
participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused
both on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of exist-
ing assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and
provincial highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure
is now considersd to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large
measure because infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance
between new investments and the efficient operation and maintenance of
existing investments needs greater attention.
22.    With an overall literacy rate of only 24%, a population growth
rate of about 3.1%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally
formidable development agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has sup -
ported the Government's programs in education through five credits
designed to upgrade primary, post-secondary, and higher technical. and
agricultural education as well as middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. The focus has been and will
continue to be on the lower end of the education spectrum (primary,
technical, and nonformal education). A first population project designed
to expand the demand for population control services was approved in FY83.
Furthermore, the Bank has financed four projects in the urban and water
supply sector. Besides providing urban services, these operations are
designed to improve local resource mobilization and cost recovery; plan-
ning and efficiency of resource utilization; and urban management, espe-
cially at the provincial and municipal levels.
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number o'. significant reforms in govermaent development



-9-
planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and
industrial sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of
FY83, significant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL
supports the Government reform program for the energy sector and assists
in the implementation of a core investment program for the sector.
Continuing support for the structural adjustment process is envisioned
under other sector loans in the next few years.
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects
have experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures
for project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and
technical staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to
budgetary constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and
conservation; oil and gas exploration and development; coal development;
lines of credit for industrial financing for the private sector, and for
industrial subsector restructuring, balancing, and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, and agricultural inputs and services; highway con-
struction and maintenance; primary and informal education; urban develop-
ment and water supply. Sector loans that would support further structural
adjustment in industry and agriculture are being discussed with the
Government. Where successful, such loans would provide a policy umbrella
for projects in those sectors. To help the Government finance agricul-
tural and other high-priority projects having low foreign exchange
component, the Bank Group is financing some local expenditures on a case-
by-case basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on develop-
ment strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and
the coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
The work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment
in the three key sectors, and the development of the physical and social
infrastructure.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
27.     Industrial Structure and Performance.  Pakistan has a fairly
diversified industrial base. In FY84, manufacturing accounted for 18% of
GDP, employed 13Z of the economically active population, and accounted for
71% of total exports, of which more than half were cotton manufactures.
Textiles and food processing account for more than half of manufacturing
value added; other major sectors are engineering, cement, and chemicals.
In large-scale industry, public sector enterprises produce about 15% of
value added and constitute a significant part of a number of key
industries. During the 1970s, the GOP nationalized a large part of



-10-
industry. Since taking office in 1977, the present Government has
reversed these policies by assigning the private sector the leading role
in industrial development, denationalizing most agricultural processing
and a few industrial units, opening up areas for private investment, and
reducing public industrial investment. As a result of these measures and
other incentives, the performance of the industrial sector has improved
considerably. During FY78-FY84, real annual growth averaged 10.8% for
manufacturing value added, 13.5% for private fixed industrial investment,
4% for industrial employment. and 11.8% for manufactured exports.
28.     Industrial Strategy and Issues.  In July 1984, the Covernment
issued a new Industrial Policy Statement (IPS) restating the Government's
commitment to a mixed economy in which the private sector is the engine of
growth and the public sector acts as investor of last resort. The IPS
emphasized the need to rationalize the tariff structure, maintain an
appropriate exchange rate so as to improve resource allocation and
strengthen the competitiveness of Pakistan's industries, and further
deregulation of the sector. The IPS also reiterated the Government's
commitment to improve the efficiency of the pubLic enterprises through
further development of a Signalling System to monitor performance and
reward management accordingly. In May 1985, the GOP announced full
decontrol of cement pricing, and it raised the sanctioning limits for
industrial investments. At the same time, Commissions on Deregulation and
Disinvestment were established to make recommendations on further reforms
to be included in the FY87 budget. The GOP also announced in May that it
planned to sell Rs 2 billion in shares of public corporations during FY86.
29.     Although the recovery of the industrial sector has been
impressive, sustained growth will depend on improvements in a number of
areas: incentives, government controls, infrastructure, public
enterprises, and the capital market. The tariff structure requires
modification to provide a more uniform level of effective protection and
reduce the import substitution bias. Although some liberalization of
regulations has taken place in recent years, industry continues to be
hampered by relatively cumbersome government controls on investment
decisions, imports, access to foreign exchange, company formation,
pricing, and labor relations. Industries affected by price controls
(including fertilizer and most public enterprises) operate under cost-plus
arrangements which discourage operational efficiency and optimal invest-
ment location. Infrastructure deficiencies, especially energy, are a
major cause of project delays and impose substantial costs on industrial
efficiency. In recent years, the GOP has delegated greater decision-
making authority to the holding corporations of public enterprises and
increased salaries and performance incentives. While these measures have
led to improved performance, they need to be complemented by relaxation of
price controls and increased autonomy at the enterprise level. At the
same time, the GOP should consider further divestiture of the enterprises
which are not strategically important. Finally, to sustain high rates of



-11-
industrial growth, there is a need to expand the access of private inves-
tors to equity finance from non-bank sources.
30.     Structure of the Financial System.  The financial system consists
of nationalized and foreign commercial banks, two stock exchanges, and a
range of specialized financial institutions.  The State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP), the central bank, regulates and directs the financial system.
Within overall policies set by the GOP and SBP, the Pakistan Banking
CounciL (PBC) oversees and coordinates the activities of the nationalized
comercial banks (NCBs) and fulfills many of the functions previously
discharged by NCB shareholders. The Ministry of Finance monitors the
operations of the other financial institutions.
31.     With total assets of about Rs 250 billion, or 80% of the assets of
the financial system at end-FY84, and a network of 7,000 branches, commer-
cial banks play a dominant role in Pakistan's financial system. The five
NCBs together accounted for about 94% of deposits, 901 of advances, and
87% of commercial banks' net profits. Since 1979 a number of steps have
been taken by the GOP and PBC to improve the overall performance of NCBs.
While these actions have led to a substantial increase in profitability,
che absolute profitability levels remain relatively low and vary con-
siderably among NCBs. Low profits are caused mainly by relatively high
reserve requirements; a large network of high cost branches in rural
areas; non-payment of interest on loans to the public sector; and general
overstaffing due to strong labor unions. Following appraisal of the
proposed project, the Government announced a number of new measures to
improve the performance of the NCBs including the granting of greater
operational autonomy, establishment of a performance and profitability
monitoring system with specific performance targets for each NCB, and
introduction of incentives for management and staff based on after-tax
financial profitability.
32.     Sources of Industrial Finance.  A number of specialized financial
institutions provide industrial finance. The Pakistan Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation (PICIC), the only financial institution with
private ownership, makes foreign exchange loans to medium- and large-scale
industry while the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) lends to
small- and medium-scale manufacturing unitr. The National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC) provides term financing and working capital to
the public and private industrial sectors. A Regional Development Finance
Corporation was set up in FY84 as a subsidiary of NDFC to finance projects
in less developed areas. Jointly with the Rafiq Habib Group, NDFC has
established a leasing company with financial and technical assistance from
IFC. Three joint venture companies were established in 1982 to provide
loans and venture capital to industry. The Small Business Finance
Corporation provides short- and long-term loans to small scale industries
and businesses. The Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP) arranges
industrial financing through consortia of NCBs, underwrites equity issues,
and operates a number of mutual funds. The National Investment Trust



-12-
operates mutual funds and unit trust savings schemes. Banker's Equity
Ltd. (BEL), which was originally set up to promote Islamic instruments,
especially equity finance, provides capital to private industry by under-
writing equity issues and arranging consortia finance participation from
NCBs. The Equity Participation Fund provides direct equity support to
small-scale projects mainly in underdeveloped areas.
33.     Notable changes in the industrial financing system during the last
decade have been the creation of a number of non-bank financial
institutions, the decline in the relative importance of established
development finance institutions (DFIs), and the emergence of the NCBs as
a major force in term lending. Initially, PICIC and IDBP were the main
institutions providing term financing for private industrial development.
However, in 1982, NDFC was allowed to diversify its activities to include
lending to the large- and medium-scale private sector. Among the DFIs,
NDFC is now the largest industrial lending institution in Pakistan. Other
institutions such as BEL, ICP, and the three joint venture companies have
also increased their role in term financing for private industry.
Historically, the NCBs were reluctant to engage in industrial term lending
despite the imposition by SBP of mandatory targets from FY79-81. Since
FY82, the improved investment climate and freeing of interest rates,
combined with allocations by SBP specifically for industrial investment,
have caused term lending by NCBs to increase dramatically. This process
was encouraged under the first Industrial Investment Credit (IIC) project
by permitting Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL) to draw upon the credit funds and
providing technical assistance to HBL and United Bank Ltd. (UBL) to
upgrade their term lending skills. As a result of these changes, the DFIs
found themselves faced with competition, yet unable to provide their
traditional term loan clients with a full range of financial services.
Under the first IIC project, the GOP took a number of measures to ration-
alize regulations affecting DFIs and permit them to mobilize local resour-
ces and make working capital ioans. These measures have led to increased
competition among DFIs, an improved financial base especially for PICIC
and IDBP, and the provision of more comprehensive financial packages to
private investors. As a result, tihe efficiency of the industrial credit
delivery system has improved considerably.
34.     Islamization.  Following a four-year transition period, since July
1985, Pakistan's entire domestic financial system and all transactions
have been based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles.
While foreign loans can continue to be relent with interest, no interest
can be charged on domestic transactions. New or proposed financing arran-
gements relevant to industrial finance include: (a) Mark-Ups--where a
financial institution purchases plant andlor equipment and "resells" it to
the entrepreneur at a margin over the original purchase price, with pay-
ment made on an installment basis; (b) Term Finance Certificate
{TFCs)-similar to bonds with a risk premium; (c) Musharika-designed to
mec working capital needs, in which profits are shared according to a
pre-agreed formula; (d) Modaraba company-operater as an investment fund



-13-
.In accordance with Islamic tenets and Ce) hire-purchase and leasing. In
practice, most short- and long-term financing is expected to be according
to mark-up.
35.     While it is too early to evaluate the impact of Islamisation on
the financial system and industrial finance, initial indications are that,
on the whole, Islamization is having a positive effect. By not imposing
restrictions on the terms and conditions which can be negotiated between
lenders and borrowers, the GOP has effectively freed financial rates of
return. This applies in particular to term financing under TFCs and the
arrangements for hire-purchase and leasing. In contrast with term lending
at 11 in the past, TFCs are expected to carry effective rates of 14X-15X
p.a. to reflect a risk factor. At these rates, they should provide con-
siderable incentive for financial institutions to engage in lending for
fixed industrial investment. In addition, the introduction of new financ-
ing mechanisms such as hire-purchase, leasing and Modarabas has increased
the range of financing options available and created a stronger role for
the private sector in financial intermediation. Modarabas, in particular,
offer the opportunity for project sponsors to raise funds directly from
the public. Islamization, with its emphasis on equity or quasi-equity
forms of financing investment, should also lead to a deepening of the
capital market.
36.     Interest Rates.  Before the fulL conversion to Islaumization,
Pakistan's interest rate structure was characterized by a crossing of
rates. Since deposit rates rose while lending rates fell with maturity,
the interest rate structure provided a clear incentive for banks to favor
short-term lending. Under Islamization, with rates of return on TFCs at
141-15% and on mark-ups at 10-20%, the imbalance in the interest struc-
ture has been corrected. OveralL, long-term rates of return of about
141-151 are considered a realistic indicator of the cost of capital in
Pakistan. With inflation rates expected to remain below 1OZ, rates of
return should be substantially positive. However, if rates of return were
to become negative, it would be possible within the parameters established
by SBP for the commercial banks to set higher rates for term lending and
up to 20% for working capital loans.
37.     Credit Allocation.  The growth and distribution of domestic credit
in Pakistan is governed by a centralized allocation system. SBP is
responsible for determining and managing the Annual Credit Plan in close
consultation with the GOP. The Credit Plan determines the overall level
of credit and its distribution, effectively setting maximum volumes of
lending for each bank and financial institution. Overall ceilings are
disaggregated by economic sector and between the private and public
sectors. This detailed system of credit allocation preempts somewhat the
intermediating and allocative functions of the financial system. However,
in practice the system is implemented with considerable flexibility and
SBP permits financial institutions to trade ceilings.



-14-
38.     Credit allocation to the private sector is determined after taking
into account the COP's borrowing requirements and the overall money supply
growth target. Through tight fiscal policies, the GOP has so far suc-
ceeded in preventing its domestic bank borrowing from crowding out private
credit. However, unless the GOP undertakes a major domestic resource
mobilization ef'ort, attainment of this objective could become increas-
ingly difficult. During FY85, the GOP's domestic bank borrowing was
substantially higher than projected in the Credit Plan. To minimize the
adverse effects on the private sector of increased GOP borrowing require-
ments and to sustain recent high industrial growth rates, there is a need
to widen the sources and methods of financing private sector industrial
investment. Strengthening the stock market, improving incentives for
equity financing, and encouraging the development of secondary markets
to enhance the liquidity of long-term and equity financing would con-
siderably widen the presently restrictive Pattern of industrial finance.
One of the main objectives of the proposed project is to assist the GOP
in developing a more efficient capital market and secondary markets for
securities and Islamic instruments.
39.     The Capital Market.  After a promising start in the late 1950s,
the capital market ceased to be a major source of industrial finance,
stagnating from the late 1960s to the end of the 1970s. As a result of
the improved economic climate and government measures to encourage the
private sector, the stock market has revived somewhat since 1982 with
increased turnover and share values. Nevertheless, it remains only a
marginal source of funds for industrial investment. Although Pakistan has
more than 10,000 private companies, only 353 are listed on the Karachi
stock exchange, and active markets exist in only about 30. In the course
of preparation for the proposed project, the Bank Group discussed with the
GOP measures to expand the stock market and generally strengthen the
capital markets in Pakistan. The Government's reaction has been positive,
and it announced a number of important measures in the FY86 Budget. These
include: (i) a reduction in the corporate tax for listed companies fro
50% to 402 (privately held companies are taxed at 55%); (ii) income tax
exemption on dividends paid by listed companies; (iii) a decision to allow
private investment companies (local or foreign owned) to perform all
banking functions except deposit taking; and (iv) introduction of
Government bearer bonds in foreign and local currency to attract "black
money" and mobilize additional resources. The tax concessions and the
increase in the supply of shares should have a positive impact on the
stock market. Bearer bonds, which can be traded in the stock exchange,
and new private sector investment companies should also expand the range
of Einancing sources for the corporate sector in Pakistan.
40.     While the recent Government announcements are expected to
facilitate equity mobilization, they need to be complemented by measures
to encourage a smoother functioning of the stock exchanges, promote more
market-oriented corporate finance services in the pricing and distribution
of securities, and develop a market for short-term corporate paper. The



-15-
Bank discussed with the GOP a number of additional policies which should
be considered in order to improve the efficiency and expand the range of
capital markets in Pakiatan. These include: ti) permitting companies to
issue bearer shares of common stock to attract "black money";
(ii) deregulation of underwriting activities; (iii) introduction of market
pricing for new share issues; (iv) introduction of short-term corporate
comuercial paper; and tv) licensing of private comuercial banking.  The
Government has referred these proposals to the recently established
Deregulation Commission, and there are good prospects that some or all of
these measures will be implemented in the near future. The GOP has also
endorsed the stock market's request to IFC for technical assistance to
modernize its operations which will be financed from the technical assis-
tance component of the first IIC project.
41.     Bank Group Lending Strategy.  The Bank's strategy in the
industrial sector is to address the issues described in para. 29 through a
parallel program of sector and project lending. A proposed Export
Development Loan, while focusing on exports, would also encourage further
action to deregulate investment and pricing, increase public enterprise
efficiency, and rationalize trade incentives. This operation would lay
the foundation for possible future Bank support for a broad program of
tariff reform. The policy-based lending will be re-enforced by project
loans to critical subsectors including those dominated by public
enterprises, such as cement and engineering, where there are good
prospects for improvements in efficiency and increased private sector
involvement. The main thrust, however, of the Bank's project lending in
industry will be to support the GOP's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through the provision oE industrial finance. Toward this end,
future industrial investment credits, including the proposed project, will
focus on financial issues. The Bank and IFC will work closely together,
as they did in preparation and appraisal of the proposed project, to
assist the GOP in divestiture of public enterprises and in strengthening
the capital markets.
42.     From 1957 until 1983, the Bank Group made separate loans to the
three DFIs (IDBP, NDFC, and PICIC). The rationale for dealing with them
individually was their clearly defined roles in different market segments
(para. 32); and institution building was an important objective of each
operation. The OED report on Loan 177-PAK to IDBP (SECM79-494) concluded
that the credit component of the project had been effective, financing 65
private sector subprojects with an ex ante economic rate of return of
16X-50%. The report also noted the impact on IDBP of the political and
economic disruptions of the 1970s which had resulted in wide-scale default
by IDBP's subborrowers. It called for greater efforts by the GOP and the
Bank to address the operational and financial difficulties besetting IDBP.
The OED report on Loan 590-PAR (SECM78-537) to PICIC and the project
completion reports on Loan 961-PAK and Loan 1326-PAl noted the beneficial
impact of the credit components which had financed about 60 private sector
subprojects with ex ante economic rates of return ranging from 10-40%.



-16-
These reports also focussed on the financial problems of PICIC, which
suffered from the same disruptions of the 1970s as IDBP, and pointed to
the need for greater diversification. The reports also emphasized the
need for further institutional upgrading of PICIC. Through the combined
efforts of the GOP, the Bank, the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and the
new management of the institutions, IDBP and PICIC have shown steady
improvement in recent years. Nevertheless, all parties concerned agree
that further efforts, particularly to improve the quality of IDBP's and
PICIC's portfolios, are still needed. NDFC was less affected by the
political and economic difficulties of the 1970s, and performed well under
Credit 546-PAK, financing 22 subprojects with an ex ante economic rate of
return of 15Z-50X. Subsequently, NDFC has branched out into private
sector financing and emerged as the largest and most profitable DFI.
43.     As a result of these developments, as well as the growth of term
lending by commercial banks and the creation of new DFIs (para. 33), the
client base for all the financial institutions began to overlap. Given
these changes and the decline in the share of industrial financing by the
DFIs, in 1983 the Bank Group adopted a new lending strategy of focusing on
the system of industrial financing as a whole. A principle objective of
the strategy was to better position the Bank Group to discuss general
financial sector issues with the GOP, influence the roles and performance
of major institutions, and at the same time, continue to assist the GOP in
strengthening DFIs through technical assistance progrems. The Bank
Group's first Industrial Investment Credit (IIC) project was the vehicle
to implement the strategy.
44.     The first IIC project expanded the Bank's involvement in the
financial system by using both DFIs and commercial banks as financial
intermediaries for term lending to medium- and large-scale industries.
Initially, three DFIs (IDBP, NDFC and PICIC) and one NCB (HBL) were
eligible to participate in the project. A second commercial bank (UBL)
became eligible in late November 1984 after all the credit funds had been
committed. Project implementation has been satisfactory. The loan/credit
was fully committed one year ahead of the original schedule. The sectoral
distribution of subloan approvals was: textiles (25%), food and allied
industries (22Z), sugar (19%), paper products (11%), engineering
industries (11X), cable manufacture (8%), and other manufactures (4Z).
Increased competition and a larger number of efficient outlets have
benefited private investors by reducing the project processing time and
wieening the range of financial services available to investors from a
singLe financial institution. Because of the competitive pressure and
more stringent eligibility criteria, the PFIs have also been forced to
become more efficient and market r iented; competition between DFIs has
developed rapidly in some areas. Overall, there have been continued
improvements in the financial performance of all the DFIs, especially
PICIC and IDBP, and new regulations have given the DFIs greater freedom to
mobilize funds and make working capital loans. This more flexible,
client-oriented approach has even been extended to the small-scale



-17-
industries projects, where IDBP acts as refinancing agent for funds chan-
neled through the commercial banks.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.     The proposed project was identified in August 1984 and appraised
in July 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from October 30,
1985 to November 5, 1985; the Pakistan Delegation was led by Mr. Sadiq
Sayeed Khan, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Finance,  A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Second Industrial Investment Credit Project" (Report No.
5823-PAK, dated December 6, 1985) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
46.     The Second IIC project would support the Government's efforts to
promote private industrial investment and would help the GOP strengthen
the financial markets. Specific objectives would be to: (a) assist the
GOP in development of a more efficient capital market in order to increase
the sources of equity finance for industry; (b) stimulate further competi-
tion among the participating financial institutions (PFIs) as a means of
improving the financial services offered to investors; (c) ensure a steady
flow of term finance to private industry by increasing the number of
outlets and range of services offered; and (d) continue the institution
building programs of the PFIs.
47.     The project would provide: (a) a line of credit to enable the PFIs
to finance the foreign exchange requirements of investment projects of
primariLy private medium and large enterprises; and (b) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the PFIs and the Stock Exchanges. The project is an
important element in the Bank's strategy for the industrial sector as set
out in para. 41. Many of the recently announced policy reforms affecting
the capital market and banking system were encouraged by interaction
between Bank staff and GOP and PFI officials during supervision of IlC I
and preparation and appraisal of the proposed IIC II. This dialogue would
be expected to continue in the course of execution of the proposed project
and to be complemented by activity in connection with other possible
policy based lending operations.
Financing Plan
48.     Total funding requirements for fixed private investment in medium-
and large-scale industries from FY86-88 are estimated at US$1.3 billion,
including a foreign exchange requirement of about US$600 million. The
proposed project size of US$300 million represents the estimated require-
ments of some 40-45 subprojects out of a total of about 100 projects
identified by the PFIs which are expected to be approved for financing by
them during FY86-88. The proposed IERD loan of US$148 million would
finance all the foreign costs or about 50% of the total costs of the 40-45



-18-
subprojects. In addition, an IDA credit of SDR 2.0 million (US$2.0 mil-
lion equivalent) would finance the technical assistance. The remaining
requirements would be met by a minimum of 23Z, or US$70 million, from the
project sponsors, and the balance from the PFIs' own resources. The Bank
would lend to the Government for relending to the PFIs, who would be
expected to commit all the loan funds by December 31, 1988.  The ADB is
expected to make a paraLlel line of credit of US$150 million to help
finance the remaining projects in the PFI pipelines. The ADB also made a
parallel line of credit in connection with IIC I, although its loan was
not available to NCBs. The Bank and ADB have worked closely together
during supervision of IIC I and appraisal of IIC II to ensure a consistent
approach to policy reforms and loan conditionality; and ADB has decided to
include the NCBs under its loan for the proposed project. Finally,
limited foreign financing is also available to the PFIs from export
credits, commercial borrowings, and GOP reserves.
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
49.     Three DFIs (IDBP, NDFC, and PICIC) and three NCBs (fBL, Muslim
Commercial Bank (MCB), and UBL) would be eligible initially to participate
in the proposed project upon fulfillment of the conditions for access to
loan proceeds. These include (a) adoption by the PFI Board of a Statement
of Strategy and Operating Policies satisfactory to the Bank; (b) for NBP
(para. 51), establishment of a project section at its head office;
(c) introduction of a staff training program satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) for IDBP and PICIC, commencement of an Organization/Strategy Study;
(e) achievement of collection targets agreed with the Bank; (f) for the
DFIs, achievement of, and maintenance of, a debt/equity ratio and debt
service coverage ratio, satisfactory to the Bank; and (g) execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) with the GOP, satisfactory to the Bank.
The collection targets (and, for each DFI, financial covenants) for each
PFI were agreed upon during negotiations. An institution's eligibility to
participate in the project would be withdrawn if the PFI had not signed a
SLA within six months of signing of the IBRD loan agreement with the GOP.
Execution of at least two SLAs, including cne with an NCB and one with a
DFI, would be a condition of loan effectiveness. This would be expected to
occur promptly after ican siguing since one NCB and one DFI have already
met all the conditions of access the loan proceeds except for signing the
SLA. Once their SLAs were executed, all the PFIs would have access to the
funds for relending on a first-come, first-served basis and would be
responsible for appraising the projects and supervising procurement in
accordance with Bank standards.
50.     The Participating DFIs.  Of the three DFIs (IDBP, NDFC, and PICIC)
which are expected to participate in the project, IDBP and PICIC formerly
experienced considerable operational and financial difficulties (para. 42)
caused in part by the loss of assets in East Pakistan, sharp devaluation
of the rupee in 1972, and the general economic and political conditions
during the seventies. The impact of these disturbances was seen in sig-



-19-
nificant arrears and portfolio deterioration. Since 1981, combined action
by the GOP, the DFIs, the Bank, and ADB have resulted in continuing
improvement in the quality of IDBP's and PICIC's portfolios and improved
financial performance which has offset in part the poor financial perfor-
mance in the 1970s. Recent Bank reviews of the operational and financial
performance of the DFIs indicate that the level of arrears in IDBP's
portfolio has fallen from Rs 1.8 bilLion (FY81), or 50% of the portfolio,
to Rs 0.9 billion (FY85), or 21% of the portfolio. Through the improved
collections, IDBP's profits after taxes have increased from Rs-5 million
(FY81) to Rs 45 million (FY85). However, IDBP had difficulty meeting its
FY85 recovery targets as a result of problems experienced by textile
companies whose production was hurt by shortages of power and raw cotton.
PICIC has experienced similar improvement. Arrears have fallen from Rs
1.6 billion (FY81), or 50% of the portfolio, to Rs 1.1 billion (FY84), or
35X of the portfolio. Net profits after taxes have increased from Rs 38
million (FY80) to Rs 12 million (FY84). NDFC's performance is
satisfactory. Arrears account for only 7% of its portfolio and net
profits have increased from Rs 88 million (FY80) to Rs 188 million (FY84).
While NDFC continues to perform well, it may have overextended itself, as
indicated by a marked increase in the ratio of administrative expenses to
loan portfolio. To ensure that the DFIs continue to improve their
performance, it has been agreed that they would endeavor to collect at
least 75% of current dues, increase their overall collections by 15%-20X
coupounded annually, and reduce the level of loans with arrears to about
20% of the total portfolio. Additionally, the DFIs would be required to
maintain satisfactory debt/equity ratios, debt service coverage ratios,
and specific rate3 of return on assets and equity. While NDFC is a rela-
tively strong institution, there is concern about the significant increase
in administrative expenses. This concern is shared by NDFC's management
which would implement an expense control review system satisfactory to the
Bank before the Bank would approve the SLA between the GOP and NDFC.
51.     The Participating NCBs. While all six NCBs have term lending
operations, HBL, UBL, and MCB account for the bulk of term lending to
industry. Their industrial credit divisions are well staffed to prepare
term loan proposals for financing and consortia lending, and they have
taken a number of steps to train staff and expand their industrial project
appraisal capabilities. Collection rates under the two Bank Group
financed Small Industries Projects (Credit 1113-PAK and Loan 2380/Credit
1439-PAK), in which the NCBs are participating, is satisfactory. HEBL and
UBL qualified to participate under IIC I, but the latter qualified after
all the Bank Group's funds had been committed. MCB is now expected to
qualify as a PFI. The participating NCBs would be required to continue
training staff in p:oject appraisal, using funds provided under the tech-
nical assistance component of the project. The PBC, which already has
taken measures to upgrade the capabilities of the NCBs, would be respon-
sible for coordinating the training programs. The National Bank of
Pakistan (NBP), another large NCB, would be eligible initially for techni-
cal assistance funds only. One year after loan effectiveness, the



-20-
Government and the Bank would jointly determine NBP's eligibility to
become a PFI.
Technical Assistance
52.     The IDA credit component of SDR 2.0 million (US$2.0 million
equivalent) would finance consultants services and overseas training to
strengthen the institutional capabilities of the PFIs and improve the
efficiency of the banking system and che operations of the capital market.
The credit funds would supplement equivalent expenditures by the PFIs to
meet the costs of local training programs and sectoral studies. The GOP
would allocate part of the technical assistance funds to the PBC for
activities to improve the efficiency of the banking system. The Karachi
and Lahore Stock Exchanges would also have access to the technical assis-
tance funds to finance the implementation of the findings of the
consultants' review due in early 1986. Details of the technical assis-
tance program were discussed and generally agreed upon during
negotiations. Based on these discussions, the GOP would ensure that by
March 31, 1986, the DFIs, PBC, and the Stock Exchanges jointly provide IDA
with a program, satisfactory to IDA, for the use of consultants and over-
seas training. For all technical assistance subprojects, the Bank would
approve the terms of reference, the selection of consultants, and their
terms of appointment.
Credit and Administrative Arrangements
53.     ReLending Rates.  The PFIs would relend the loan funds to the
subborrowers at 14Z p.a. which, given that inflation is expected to remain
under 10Z in the medium term, is positive in real terms. The proposed
final relending rate is also consistent with market rates of about 14Z-15Z
being charged following the liberalization of term lending rates brought
about by Islamization (para. 36). The Government and the Bank would
review the relending rates from the GOP to the PFIs and the subloan rates
periodically to ensure that they were maintained at mutually satisfactory
levels. The first review of interest rates would be held six months after
loan effectiveness, and subsequent reviews would be held annually. The
factors to be considered in determining the appropriate level would
include: (a) the trend of inflation and the need to ensure that the lend-
ing rates remained positive in real terms; (b) prevailing borrowing and
lending rates in Pakistan; (c) the adequacy of the spread for (i) the
Government to cover the foreign exchange and interest rate risks; and (ii)
the PFIs to cover their costs in making the subloans; and (d) the rate of
commitment and disbursement of subloans. The pronosed IBRD loan to the
GOP would be relent at 10% to PICIC and IDBP (who pay income taxes) and at
11% to the other PFIs (who do not pay an income tax), giving them spreads
of 4Z and 3%, respectively. In accordance with the GOP's general policy,
the Government would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The GOP policy of accepting the exchange risk on all foreign credit it
onlends to financial intermediaries was adopted in 1980 to avoid a repeat



-21-
of the situation which occurred in 1972 following the large devaluation.
At that time, innumerable subborrowers defaulted, jeopardizing the sur-
vival of the DFIs. Moreover, in view of Pakistan's strict foreign
exchange controls and the absence of a Long-term forward market to cover
exchange risks, it would not be practical to pass on the foreign exchange
risk to the PFIs or final borrowers.
54.     SubLoan Approval.  The minimum and maximum subloan size would be
US$500,000 and US$6.0 million, respectively, with exceptions on a case-by-
case basis. Based on experience under the first IIC project, most of the
subloans would be expected to be US$3.0 million or higher. A free limit
for subloans up to US$2.0 million would be permitted for the DFIs and
Habib Bank up to a combined aggregate of US$40.0 million. All subloans
made by UBL and MCB, as well as all those over US$2.0 million by any PFI,
would require prior Bank approval. Subprojects would be required to have
an expected economic rate of return of at least 15% and would also be
evaluated on the basis of their expected financial rate of return, domes-
tic resource cost, capital/job cost ratio, and foreign exchange earnings
and/or savings. All industrial subsectors would be eligible for financing
under the project except for the sugar industry where only balancing,
modernization, and replacement (BMR) for existing mills would be
considered. Although the proposed project is designed to promote private
sector investment, an exception would be made to enable NDFC to submit
subloan requests up to a total of US$10.0 million for public sector
projects involving BMR. Sector distribution of subprojects would be
expected to follow the pattern established under the first IIC project
(para. 44), but with less emphasis on textiles and food processing.
55.     Amortization Schedule.  The NCBs would repay the COP on the basis
of a composite amortization schedule of their subloans. The DFIs would
repay over a fixed term of 15 years including three years' grace. A
number of steps have been taken under the first IIC, and further steps are
planned under this project, to permit the DFIs to generate local
resources. Until this process is complete, extended use of the repayments
under the subloans financed by the IBRD funds would augment their local
currency resources and enable them to provide working capital finance to
their clients. Repayment schedules for the subborrowers would be based on
the projected income and cash flow requirements of the individual
enterprises as determined at appraisal, but normally would not exceed ten
years including the grace period.
56.     Procurement and Disbursement.  Bank staff have reviewed the
procurement procedures of all the PFIs and have found them generally
satisfactory. As under the first IIC project, limited international
bidding procedures would be required for individual contracts above US$2.0
million. Project sponsors would be required to advertise in the local
press and seek bids from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to
assure competitive prices. Sponsors would be required to notify embassies
and trade representatives of Bank member countries and Switzerland repre-



-22-
sented in Pakistan; however, they would not be required to advertise in
international publications. The PFIs would be required to confirm with
the actual supplier the price, quancity, and other details of the
procurement. For smaller contracts, PFIs would employ their existing
procurement procedures which generally conform to the Bank's standard
practices.  In most cases, machinery and equipment would be procured by
obtaining at least three competitive quotations from established sources.
The PFIs would be expected to maintain records of the method of procure-
ment and to monitor the use of subloans through reguLar supervision
activities. SeLection and employment of consultants would be in accord-
ance with the Bank's guidelines.
57.     The loan proceeds would be disbursed under eligible subloans
against 100l of the foreign exchange costs of goods and services and 60X
of local expenditures for the costs of imported equipment bought off the
shelf, corresponding to the estimated foreign exchange content of these
items. Full documentation of expenditures would be submitted to the Bank.
For the technical assistance component, the credit proceeds would be
disbursed at the rate of 100% for consultants' services and overseas
training.
58.     Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  The PFIs would be required to
submit (a) quarterly progress reports and (b) audited financial statements
at least six months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition, the
DFIs would be required to submit long form audited reports within six
months of the end of the fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.     Benefits.  The project would support the GOP's efforts to maintain
the growth of private industrial investment, develop capital markets, and
transform development finance institutions from purely term lending
activities into more dynamic financial institutions. The Bank Group's
dialogue with the Government in connection with the proposed project has
already and would be expected to continue to open up new avenues for
industrial investment by the private sector and release the pressure on
the banking system. It should also stimulate private savings, both by
requiring a minimum sponsor's equity contribution to complement each
subloan and by strengthening the capital markets. The project would
finance about 40-45 subprojects involving total project costs of US$300
million. Based on the average investment cost per job of about US$20,000,
an additional 30,000 new direct jobs would be created. The average
economic and financial rates of return of the subprojects to be financed
under the project are estimated at 15X. The proposed project0would also
allow the Bank to maintain a strategic position in the financial system
which in turn would enable the Bank to help the GOP address broader finan-
cial and banking sector issues such as the efficiency of the banking
system. The proposed project would also broaden the Bank's institution



-23-
building assistance to cover the comercial banks and the Karachi and
Lahore Stock Exchanges, as well as the DFIs.
60.     Risks.  While the DFIs have had many years of project appraisal
ezperience, the NCBs have only recently embarked on term lending opera-
tions based on project viability as distinct from collateral support.
Thus, there is a risk that UBL and MCB would be slower than expected in
moving from collateral to appraisal-based lending and that their par-
ticipation in the project would be Limited. This risk would be reduced
by the evident desire of the management of these institutions to establish
effective term lending policies, procedures, and appraisal capabilities.
While IDBP and PICIC have shown steady improvement in recent years, their
future viability is sensitive to continued growth in their operations and
to credit discipline In the entire financial sector. Further success in
improving IDBP and PICIC's operational and financial performance will
require strong commitment by GOP and the management o' both institutions.
Recent Government public statements suggest that the commitment will be
forthcoming. There is a broader risk that political and economic uncer-
tainties will inhibit investment. While this is a continuing problem in
Pakistan, investors have generally been reassured by the Government's
policy direction in recent years. Finally, there is the overall risk that
Pakistan's economy, inc'luding the industrial sector, will suffer from
external factors and inadeqLate structural adjustment. The record of the
Government thus far in liberalizing the economy and the general calibre of
economic policy making suggests that senior GOP officials fully appreciate
the need for further concerted action. Through combined use of economic
and sector work and both project and policy lending operations, the Bank
seeks to re-enforce this determination on the part of the Government.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
61.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association and recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 10, 1985



-24-
PlAttUAN               - SOCIAl. zcI     CBca   S     wL
CHOST Wu3  wrm&     ) .L_.
lwo&       197zo&    =Tdb             Lm 1303 NNcZ     13
AM  CIU    u  I. ut)
TOrAL                              U3         613.9      #03.*
CRIJCULZtAL                       227.s       243.3      233.0                 .
Q PU  Aim  ClsS)                       ..          ..       390.0              Z74.3         _0114
(KILOGAMU  or oIL MIIlVALzU)       93.0       139.0      179.0    __        285.7                   5%*.
FOAIW     A   IXTAL ff41r14
POPuLATION.NID-YEAR (TOOSAMS)  43851.0       0449.0    49729.0
URUli POILAItaOF (C UT mIlL)       zz.1        24.9       29.1              123                       35.9
POPIIUTION PRECIIOIS
POPULATION to mmA  ZO0 (MaLL)                           133.1
S?ATIU1IAU! ?OPUtIATZO  (NWLL)                          330.0
PUormAzom maizigru                                       1.9
POPULATIOII DauXT.
PER 50. IN.                      57.0        75.2       111.4             173.8                    36.9
PEr SQ. IK. AGc1. LOAN          201.5       248.4      34.4               353.3                   1"1.2
POPLAETIN  ACt SrRUCTU  S()
0-14 SRS                        43.4        46.2        43.7              36.3                     36.2
15-44 3S5                        51.6       50.5        33.2               D9.4                     5J.7
65 AN AIM                         4.3         3.1        2.9                4.3                      3.5
POPULATIUON GIITN RATE (O)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.6        3.0                2.                        .
URJA                              4.6         4.0        4.4                4.1                      4.1
CRUDE BaT  RZ CPU TOMS)            48.         446.6      42.0               27.                      30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TOU)         23.5        19.4       14.9               10.2                      9.4
CROSS MDlOITICTION RT               3.4         3.4   2a                      1.7                      1.9
VANITY PLAMIEWI
AC ,PTS.  AUl. (T2O0S)            ..       190.1      1244.0 .c
SDS t2 of MARRID Vw)              ..         6.0 /d    14.3                49.4                      5
100w AM  wZEZ
INDOC   POF VWROD. PER CArI
C1969-71-100)                      49.0       102.0      107.0              11UJ                     124.4
PER CAPU  SILY OF
CAURS CZ ODF MQUESNTS)          77.0        95.0       104.0             106.3                   U15.7
PIOT1XL3S (CGUM PE VAT)          S3.o        Sl.0       61.0               60.1                     60.3
OF WIICH N IDA AID PULSE        23.o        22.0       20.0 /             14.4                     14.1
CMILD (AGZS 1-4) WAT RAEn          24.9       21.1        16.0               7.3                       7.2
LE ElPT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)          43.1       *6.0        50.2               60.5                     60.3
IWAr MM. IATE (PERt TOS)          161.5       143.0      119.0              49.2                      ".9
ACCESS To SAM WATER (111)
TDAL                              ..         21.o       34.3               44.2                     44.u
URBAN                             ..         77.0       72.0               77.2                     574
RUAL                              ..          4.0       20.0               34.6                     ,7.1
ACCZSS TO EUCRE  DISPOSAL
(C Or POPULATION)
TWAL                              ..          3.0       13.1               7.5                      50.1
UN                                ..         12.0       42.0               26.8                     32.9
RURAL                             ..          ..         2.0                5.5                     ".7
POPULATN PM PSICIAN              540.0      4300.0 /t  3480.0             331S.0                    7731.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON         38110.0    10530.0 7F  5820.04            4490.7                   244.5
POP. PM HOSPTAL DMm
TOTAL                          1790.0      1660.0     1560.0 /c          1039.2                   1112.1
URA                             510.0       650.0      7io.o 7e           299.1                    631.4
RURAL                         2250.0    1248O.0    11640.0 7           4025B.2                   2394.
AD-ISSIONS PER HOSPL U               .M         .          ..              t3.3                       41.1
ND-
AVERAGE SIZE OF WUSEC0LD
TOTL                              5.4         5.3        6.1 Ic
URBAN                             5.6         5.5        6.4 Ic.
RIURAL                            5.4        5.2         6.0 7..
AVERAGZ 10. Or PEHUS/R00
TOUL                              3.1         2.8 /n
URIAN       *                     3.1         2.7 71
RURAL                             3.1         2.8 7T;
PERCETAE OF D=LLINGS 111 EC.
TOAL                              ..         17.9h        ...
ORBN                              ..         54.4 7T     .
AEtRAL                            ..          .97r 



-25-
Annex 1
tUtI S8                - SOeSAL SIMUM MMAM D^SXTUARINS
NOS                     (NORs RECET SITISx)
RCE  ,,            LOW I1                11100D1.
126ol!!    ir-oMX  ggT&K            AgIA U   PAC* ecC      ASIA I PACIFIC
ADJUITEN EUMLUT SAZIO
?ZMAYR    TOTAL                   30.0        40.0       44.0               92.6                    100.7
KAU4                   48.0        37.0       37.0              105.3                    106.4
nALE                   13.0        22.0       31.0               79.3                     97.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  11.0        13.0       14.0               31.3                     47.8
HALE                   18.0        20.0       20.0               40.8                     50.6
FEmALE                  3.0         3.0        8.0               21.9                     44.8
VOCLtIOIAL (I OF SECoMat)            1.0         1.5        1.7                3.2                     18.4
PUPlL-TEANER RATIO
P&Ulm                             39.0        41.0       36.0               38.0                     30.4
SECONDUAt                         24.0        20.0       18.0               17.4                     22.2
PASSEIUEU CARU/TROIIUAND POP         1.3         2.6        3.4 A              0.9                     10.1
IDIO CZCZv/THOIURAD POP              6.0        17.1       74.t              129.5                    172.9
TV ItCRIVEKI/TIOUSAND pop            ..          1.6       11.5               19.8                     58.5
NmsAW S ("DLY GI RAL
DINS ") ZRCOULATION
EZ  TRODEAIID POPULATION           13.2         *-        19.4               25.7                     65.3
CUIM  ANAL ATIDDAMCB/CPITA           1.7        3.0 /       2.2 Ic             6.0                      3.4
TOTAL LAsO  m     (TSII)         1"44.0    17384.0    25325.0
FEtME (PERCENT)                   8.6          9.3       10.6               33.2                     33.6
ARICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0       59.0        57.0               69.6                     52.2
INDSTRY (PERCNT)                  16.0        19.0       20.0               15.3                     17.9
PATXTCIPATION RAn CPECNT)
TOML                              31.5       28.7        28.2               41.9                     38.9
MALI                              55.2        50.4       48.3               53.6                     30.8
13111.                             5.7         5.5        6.3               29.1                     26.8
-ComIC DUZNDEZNC  RATIO              1.5         1.7        1.7                1.0                      1.1
D3    DXII SI
PERCENT OF PRIVAT INCOME
RECEIVED by
EXCE1SSt S or HOIISEOLDS          20.3 jk     17.8
ZIOnST 202 OF UoIuOLDS            45.3       3'.8         ..                 ..                      U.0
LOWST 201 OF HOSEIIOLDS            6.4        8.0         ..                 ..                       6.4
LOWST 40s ofl HOUSEotDS           17.5        20.2        ..                 *.                      15.5
ESTIMATED ABSOLUT PMOVERTY IIC011
LIV.L CUU P  CAIPZA)
3AlM                               ..        68.0  t   17i.O jc            133.9
RURAL                              ..        *7.0       122.0 k            111.6                    151.9
ESTXIAMA  URATIVE POVT  IN
LEVEL CUJS PM CAPITA)
URaN      .                        ..         34.0 4     88.0 c              ..                     177.9
XURAL                              ..        22.07i    58.0                 61.7                    164.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLJTE
POVERT INCOM LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                              ..        42.C Lt    32.0                43.8                     23.5
RURAL                              ..        43.0 E      29.0               51.7                     37.8
.NOT AVA IABL
NOT APPLICABLE
NOTSS 
L    The roup  nro  for "ch indeator are population-weigbed arLttlmtic man. Covarag  of countrie.
_oug the Indicatorn depends on availab-llty of data and La not Uform.
Dbolaoe othe.vise noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dar& for 1970" between
1969 *nd 1971; mad data for "Naa Recant Eatleate  betwan 1981 and 1983.
/c   1979; /d 19U8; /a 1977; /f If regoterd. not alL practising in thu country; ,L 1980; /h 1973;
JUNE, 1985



-26-                                         Annex 1
Page 3
DEINrIMoNS OFSOCaL INDICAlCES
Nont Althoum) thicd dat airhaw from momsemaflyjudgel the ee authoritative and rliacbe itsbould iso obe noted that they may not be imeraaaonally
cmpcuab becmu of the la or mardiad delluitiona ad cumcps usd by diffeent countries in collecting the dataL The d  ai nonetbek, usemul mo
dermbe oren ormagude. indiate trends, and cbartz cert  mAjor didlln  betwen countm
mc reiensc goups am (I) the ,se counlay gmp of the subiea cruntry and (2)-a-countay group with  newbat higher avcrae inoernc than th country
oupftheuwbjacuntzy (cpt for -High IncomeOil Esporeegroop _ me eMiddle Incom Nh  Aricnd Middle     aischode bmuseofsme
ooc           astiet  In th et   pomp data the avempa aim populion weighed arithmutic mne  ror each Indibcar nd shown only when mnjruily
ofrdecountilis in a gu bhs dua for that inctor, Since tbecoveaofcountrie m_gte indiotordepndson theavailbility ofdata and is not uniform,
caion must be caened in relating avenge ofone indicar to another. These averas are only useful in compaing the value ofone indicaor at a time among
the contry   an nc proup
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crade Bir Rate (per thensaud)-Nunber oflive births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1923 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Craud Death JRte (per  aussnd)-Number ordeaths in the year
Agrarsl-Estim    ate of agicltural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1923 data.
permanendy for crops. pasturcs. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gras Repdaetima Rate-Avcragc number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data,                           will bear in her normal reproductive peiod if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year avrags ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USSGNP per capita esimates at current           in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market pices. calulatd by s-me convesion method as World       Puwy fAuirtg-Accpsen, Asal (thanessds4-Annual num-
Bank Atdas (198 143 basis); 1963 datl                           ber of acceptors orbirth-control devices underauspicesof national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual appat                      aily planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,        dy PfiUmrrU           (Fprcet  e  d       -Thebpeen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal ele-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tiicity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whom husbands are pracicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data                                                      or child-bearing agc are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usge is measured for other age
POPULAlION AND VrTAL STATLSTICS                                groups.
To.a Poplaion. Mi-Y)ew (thamsds4-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Uirlx ofq Fee qfdP tdme   PeC u nptar (1969-71 - 10)-Index ofper
Urban  tp.atim (per  of satr)-Ratio of urban to total          capita annual production of all food conunodities. Producion
population: dirfrent defiitons of urban areas may affect compar-  exlcudes animal feed and seed for agricttuure Food commodhies
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data-    indude primary commodities (eg. sugaran  instead of sugar)
pufliea 'R-jr.-                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,    cduded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulse  oil seeds
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar bees livestock. and
total population by age and sex, ertility rates, mortality rates, and  lvestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intenational miigration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of genealized  1982 data.
assumptions until thc population became stationary.             P- Cap" s Rpefc.brl s (Percent o_freqarmseu)-Comput-
Stationary poprdauion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. wbile age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprie domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replaement level  tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock Net supplies
(ne rcproduction rate= 1). In sucb a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. secds for use in agriculture quantiies used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiologial needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and alowing 10 pent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita SWy  e rfPrw    (gr    p- day-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries establshed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is neasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which IO grams
the year t, given the assumption that fertility remains at repl-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those or
ment lvel from year r onward, 1985 data.                        75 gams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
P.opwatb   Dedsty                                              average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tans) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capita frea Spirpy lio Amiua and PIlwe-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricultural lad-Computed as abovc for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Popuabti   Age Sienna (percent)-Cbildren (0-14 years). work-    ClN (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per thosiad)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 19S3 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pbpalaioa Greowth Rat (perceat)-Anal-Annual growth rates of     from life tablesk 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970483I HEALTH
Pop.lad. Growth Rat (percat)-arban-Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy ar Birrt (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950.60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-27-                                      Annex 1
Page 4
at th tim  orof Its birh wr to say them  thougbout Its lfe;   AV&aaAev Ratio - primary, and secmdrv-Totl studnt en.
1960 1970 and 1913 daa.                                            I t o     in p   and eondary lie vdivde  by numbe  of
J411 lltp 1   (Pw          _Nu nb or of Infants who die    tUdwu  in the correspooding levels.
beform mching one yar of ap per thusn live birt  In a given
yar, 1960, 1970 and 1913 datL                                 CONSUMPTION
Acc      or   P*  (pwa of pF"       iE)        0Wh%   d       Piar        Cws (per ahmmd jPaUe.uj-Penrger crs com-
vwnl-Nunber of people (totaL urba  and runal)    nable        prim motor cars eting l1 than eight persons; excludes ambul-
O- to sae wae  upply Oinclude tiated  rfae watm  or          ance. hae and milituy vehicle.
untreated but uncontaminated water such a that from,pratected  ed. Receivrs (pee *heasmudpopularm)-All type Or rceIvem
bole  rinp and snitary wd1) u p it_    of their apec-        for rdio broadast to general public per thousad of popultion-
tin populatons. In an orban area a piblic fountain or stndpoSt  excludce un-licend receiver in countries and In yes  when
located not nm- tha 2D0 mnm from a ho. many be    d           registrtion of adio eu was in effet data for recet yea  m-y
as bng witIn reasonabe ac  of that house In ruer              not hr comprbl si   most countre *aUboed licensing.
reasonable mm w=Wd imply that the huewife or membe ofr the
houshold do not have to spend a dispoporonate part of the day  TVAReeuivrs (perd isuuidjisuintles)-TV reer for broadcut
in fetchig the famly's water needs.                          to goenl public per thousaid populaton: exclus unced TV
Aca to Exse.m Diwed (pnwe  of AVpIpIsth-..eee  xrk           recevers in countneS and in yea when rgistrtion of TV st wu
mud tu-Number of people (toutl, urbn, and rul) served by      in effect
cu:rets disposal a pectae of their respective populations.    -uVFYe Cke            (F.l theesadpopulki.eD-Shows the aver-
Ecet diposl may include the oollcn and disposal, with or    ap circulation of 'daily gneal intest newpapr." defined as a
without tretument, of human excreta and waite-watr by water-  peiodical publicaion devoted primaily to ecording geeral nww
borne sysm   or the use of pit priv itsnd simibk imtwns.     It is consdered to be 'daily" ifit appean at lat four tinmue a week
-epsissi.upw P    sidu.-*bpulation divided by number of prc.  Clase Aasl At_Asmd_cr per Co& per Yew-Baed on the
tisng phy      qualifed frtom a medical scool at university level.  number of ckt sold durng the ye. including admiss     to
?qsm per Nwdq P 4  Ip atmh    divded by number of            dnve-in ciemas and mobile units.
practn  mal and female graduate nure, aismnt nurs,           LUOII FOtCE
praccl nurss and nusing auxilre.
~a  per  ~d DudtamI, wam,  d wd-ftsplatin     Tetal Labor Are (tosiambds-Economicifly active persns. in-
(totaL, urban. and rual) divide  by their repective number of  i
hopital beds avasible in public and private, generwi and     students, etc.. covering population of al aM. Dention  in
hospitals and bLtitk   0. Hopibs ase                         various countries ar not comparable; 196I, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at klt one physicia  E i n   pr       F k (percmt-Female labor fore as pcentge Or totl labor
Wding prindcpally Cmt    care are nt  included Rural hot     foe
hower, include health and medical centers not permnently staffed  Ariewhwe (percear)-Labor forc in fannng, foretry, huntig
by a physia (but by a mdical asistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as peetag of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patent accommodation and provide a lmited rnge  data.
of Mel facilities.                                           l]aay (parentr)-Labor force in mining, constrution. manu-
A_JII.w per lsApi  Bid-Total number of admissions to or      fauring and eectricty, water and gs as percenta  of total labor
dischrg  from hospitals divided by the number of bes         force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P dp. Rat (perea-tjsea m_le, andfJinp-s,aticipation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates ae computed as totaL mal, and feale  bor fore
Ap e q Shte of Ifmehd  (Pmy per ho_d-.uia w1aM,              as percentages or total male and feml populionr at   as
dnnal-A houmhold consis of a gsoup of individual who she     respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Thes are basd on [WO's
living quarten and their main mels. A boader or odgr may or  pricipation    refiecnage-  sct  of the populto  and
may not be indcuded in the household for staical purpose     long time trend. A few estmates are from national sources
Avra  ANmebr of Pua pff Rem--aes& uras ad rural-             Ece_mot   Depeadeacy Rado-Ratio of population under 15. and
Averag number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aed 15-64).
occupied conentu3nal dwellings, respectiely. DweUings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUrION
Pecmeqof ejD-4          with Eerkyp-eeal whbian. -d rural-    Percemwe of Twr D4osabk laew (    in eah     
Conventional dweUlins with electricity in living quarters as pecn-  Accruing to percentile groups or housholds rnked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwllings respetively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4us&d Fuihwen Rlein                                         The foUowing estinates are very approximate measures of povaty
Pmrpy .sdaool - road. male md feala-Gross toL|. mal ad       kvels and should be interpted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ags at the prnmary level as pentgs of  Esimated Abselar Poeryt lacew Lad (USS per eVvea-sphan
respective pnmary shool-ag populations. Wbile many countri   and rwra-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primry school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
dilerences in country pracces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiremnts is not affordable.
are reflctd in the ratis diven For some countries with universal  Esimted Re.*  P,verty lwuce Leve (USS per capim -arb_
education, gros enrollmnent may exced 100 percent sinCe Mn    ad rual-Rural relative poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupils are bdow or above the countrys stndaird pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
ag                                                           derived from the rural klvel with adjustment for higher cost of
Secouday scheol - totaal e mak d femf e-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
sonday education require at least four years of approved pri-  E.  ued erAlrim Beow Ahsolwe Povrty lne Lld (per-
mary instcion provides general, vocational, or teacher trainig  carvr-wm aid rra-. Percent of population (urban and rural
isrmctions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: corrspond-  who are 'absolute poor.  
ecme cours are generaly excluded.
Vwcadoa firohmeui (percEt of ecradivy)-Vccational institu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
btns incdude tecncal industaL or other program  which operate        Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independenty or a departmcnts of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-25-
CUP PR C       IA  1982: 1380 LI
CROSS AISONAL nOnCT 1N 19311U  lb LkLA                                              8     (1Q . cestt e  rmcil
0S 3illies        I               1291Z/7-1974175  19517S/J-l990/81  1981/82  I182193  19l3/84
GNP at u.rket prices            33.68         100.0                  3.5              7.1           4.3      7.4      4.2
Gross domestic investment        5.23          15.5                -5.5               4.1          10.5      9.6      3.4
Cross ntinal saving              4.20          12.5                -2.1               6.7          6.9      24.9     4.5
Currst account balance          -1.00          -3.0
Exports of goodu. m             3.44           10.2                -3.5               7.3         -5.6      27.5    -3.2
Imports of goods. UPS           7.06           21.0                -7.1              5.5           0.7       1.1    22.0
OnnUT, LABOR FORE AmN
PRODUCUTI   IN 1983)84
- Value Added                 Leahr Fmrce le               T. A. Per Woerlr
S Nillian   -               iQII_      L                     a i
AgricuLture                     6.652     24               14.1      51                    472     47
Imdustry LA                    e.09      29                5.2      19                   1.557    155
Servieas                      _1931      47               Aal    -a                     Jaia    1
Total/Average                27,679    100               27.6    100                  1003   100
GOVERMET  nUsAC
Central Government to                           Federal Goverment
(R. billiol               of  ro?            (Rs bitli)           S of CoP
939   L   -19831*  4  1978179-1931n4 1z314 Lf  ItM 4  197Z7D-19B3Z/M4
Current receipto                      73.2         17.4         16.6             5S.2          13.9         12.4
Curret expenditures                  MAI                                          M 235  62A   I.            '
Current surplus                      -7.2         -1.7         -6.3               -4.6        -1.1          -0.4
Capital expeditures Lt               34.2           3.1          9.4              34.2          7.0          8.0
External aaeietance (net)             6.0           1.4          2.1                6.0         1.4          2.1
NOUE. CREDIT ANID PRICES
1974175  1975176   1976177   19m7s7  1978/79   19791tlO  1980181   19B1/82  1982183  195318 Lk
-.      (Rs billion)
Mone  nd qusi moy Li                     33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7     76.5       90.7    103.5    113.6   146.0   162.5
_en credit to public sector              21.2      28.1      36.6      43.5     54.9       61.8     70.9       79.7    95.5   105.6
enk credit to private sector             16.0      17.8      23.0      26.5     30.9       36.9      41.9      51.3    62.8    77.8
-           (percentages or index  _ere)
Mouy and quaai money aS Z of CDP         29.5      31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3      37.0      35.1      40.1      38.7
Consumer price index (1969170-100)      211.3    229.4    256.7    277.0    295.6    331.9    375.4    403.9    418.1    462.0
Jama percentage chages in:
Cosumer price index                      23.6       8.6      11.9       7.9       6.7      12.3      13.1       7.6       3.5      10.5
Denk credit to public sector               ..     32.5       30.2      18.8     26.2       12.6      14.7      12.4      19.8      10.6
Dek credit to private sector               ..      11.2      29.2      15.2     16.6       19.4      13.5      22.4      22.4      23.9
/a  Baed on Vorld Benk Atlas metbodology ad calculated at e  avrage of 1930-82 prices ad eacbhage rates. All otber
couversiona to dollars in this table are at the average ezcebne rate preailing during the period covered.
It Prvisial.
fe Projection for 1933/84. Does not include unemployed labor force.
Id  Includes m facturing. mining, construction end electricity and ga.
LI Cmoeolidated revenee end axpaditures of Federal ad Provincial Covermenta (excluding Pederal-Provincial Covernment
transfers).
t Revised budget data.
La  Excluding principal repayments of foreign loas. Capital expeditures as defined in government budget include
certain current expenitures also.
Proviional.
Li Monetary statiatics of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for demonetized notes. devalustion nd revaluation of the
rupee. etc. as from June 30. 1975. Data for 1974/75 from State lek sources are not strictly comrable with DQ
eati_etes for earlier years.
Not applicable.
not ailable.
Marcb 1985



n                                        -
, port  of sodm, El               2.355   32.1    3,05232414           3.433         UV 1t03             32153                  11.4
%oerts of goeds, "I             .J0l   JiM.   Lii7    L311    -2.15                  am"                           214.7         3.1
Someree mp CiafiuLt                                            Is-)  -2 74   -2.  0 7I  u1I  0  3 loth *l2111                   10.6
lao                          417.3        15.3
tereegt papemata                   -283    -357      -45      -4I        477         All etbw eamr itie          1A .  -MA
Vurse' rdittesee                    174      2,097    2,224    2,.37     2,737           Total                     23651.4       100.0
Othmer fauter P    te Crn)          131      274      321      135       353
Net trafere                          -,        ..
lalafe 0n crrent accout          -,l140    -391   -1,323      -11   -I,DO
Direct foreign 1e_t                  ..       ..       .         .        .
let 36. borrowing                                                                                                         Zil1it
Di.b.r      at                  1,134      95e    1,102    1,301     I,248
Amortization                    _..    -..n ..            ..M       ...            Public debt. IcludIg gpara.teed         9,890.4
6ub-total                          24      440      610      915       679         Wou-gareateed priwate debt La.
Treemactione with 11W La             78      315      353      412        -I           Total eutstmdim  ad dLabureed         9,390.4
otbhr itcom u.e.L. /                600      54       318      283       142
1a.ms. in :same  C-                -342     -310      249  -I,102        180            Nr 33L31CR 3!o N  11,3I4 a
Greoss Efeee -(rn  Year) Ll         744    1,053      609    1,911     1,7321 
petroleum Imports Lj              1,079    1,535    1,710    1,610     1.t423        Public debt, Including guaranteed          15.6
petroleum aports Lj                 173      126      194       77        40         Nos-garnteed private debt
Total                                 15.6
SATE SI ESCRaNCU                                                  ruunhIDi~~~~~~~~~~~~~sSSs  LMNCX tCUe..be  103) (1,3  milliem
*dwau.h U.w 11. 1072              ire. Me. 12. 1972-lab. 15 1973                                                         Zm cIi
3I8  - Is 4.7619                         =13   - Is 11.00                         Outstandivg ed dLebereed             350.7   1,1".7
Re 1 - U130.21                            an I - 1380.0                           UfdLabur.ed                          ML&       617.2
Outstanding lncluding  dibureed   547.7   1,761.9
Pro.Fob. 153. l97jM&     j Z    Pr        a. l-hIe 1932 a           ir. hu. 1092-3... 1983            ro. July 12131-%At   1934 JL
13I - R .9.0                           81 38 Is - 10.55              S1  - 1 n 12.75                 u13    a a  13.50
to  1 - W30.10                       Rs 1- U380.095                 Re 1I .   1 00.078               i  I   VS$0.074
IL Including Trumt ,md.
a   IncLuding net ehort-term borrowing and error. ed omiecions.
LI  eincldin  Sold reeree of about 1.8 nillio  tray *ones.
Crude nd derivetiue.
I  b-grasteed private debt mrvice is ngligible.
Raetlo of eatual debt ceriee to epor   of goods, factor ed non-factor esrvices; debt oerice Includes IW ebarges.
Z ffectlve January 6. 1932, e rupe. Lu to be   neged vlth refereoce to a weighted basket of currecies.  no average
exchane  rete shoew  La vies--vis U36 for the peri   bebon.
Not vralable.
Nareb 1985



-30-
PAMe TX
STATUS 01 WO CROUP OPERA7TIOII IN PAKISTAN
A. STLTIEONT o0 SAWK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (ea of Santgeber 31. 1985) Ie
(tS$ million)
Loan/                                                    (Aamout nut of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                  Uediu-
Number     Year    zinnia                               hu    aI        ID        bureud
Ninety-eight loane and credite fully diaburued Lk    781.4  32.0  1.001.61L
648       1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)       -               14.0       2.7
1366T     1977   Penjab Livestock Developmnet           -      10.0     -          2.8
754       1978   Salinity Coentrol & Reclamation        -               70.0      66.6
313       1978   Punjab Ext.  Agric. Dev.              -               12.5       3.7
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (erdsn)    -                  60.0      49.4
892       1979   Primary Education                       -              10.0       3.5
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Eztenaion            -                9.0       4.2
96B       1980   Third WMADA Power                       -              45.0       3.5
974       1980   Third Rigbway                          -               50.0      11.9
1019      1980   PICIC Induatrial Development           -               40.0       3.3
1109L/    1981   Vocational Training                    -               25.0       7.8
1113II    1981   Snail Induatries                       -               30.0       0.3
1157L/    1981   Grain Storage                          -               32.0      15.8
1158fr    1981   Agricultural Reaearch                  -               24.0      15.0
11631    1981   On-F  m Water  ana gement               -              41.0      12.2
1186/e    1982  lIduatrial Development (IDBP fl)        -               30.0       3.0
2122      1982   Fourth Telecomunication                 40.0           -         11.9
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5              -         20.3
2247      1983   Rseervoir Maintenance Facilitima       10.2            -         10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)             10.0            -          5.4
2324      1983   Fifto Sui Northern Gas Pipelinee       43.0            -         39.9
1239/e    1982   Irrigation Sy. me Rehabilitation    -                  40.0      23.7
1243/e    1982  Beluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.         -               14.0      10.9
1256Lg    1982   Technical Amnimtance                   -                7.0       2.9
1278re  1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 -               50.0      36.0
1348/e    1983   Labore Urban Development               -               16.0      14.9
1350/e    1983   Population                             -               18.0      14.3
L355/e    1983   Coal Engineering                       -                7.0       6.2
1374/e    1983   Karachi Water Supply                   -               25.0      2D.4
1375L    1983   Fourth Drainage                        -               65.0      62.0
13O0k    1983   Agricultural Development (ADSP V)    -                  47.8      14.2
1218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project           12.0            -          8.8
2351      1984   Petroleum  Exploration                 51.5            -         41.4
2374      1984   Second Toot OiL and Gas Development  30.0              -         22.8
2380      1984   Industrial Inveatment Credit            50.0           -        44.7
1439k    1994   Induatrial Ineatment Credit             -               50.0     44.5
14611t    1984   Integrated Hilt Farming Developm et -                  21.0     21.3
1480e   1984   Second Technical Assiatance                              7.0      6.8
1487      1984   Comead Vater Management                                46.5     46.0
1499      1984   Secoad SBall Induatries                -               50.0     41.1
1532      1985   Left BDak Outfall Drsin - Stage I    -                150.0    156.4
1533      1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extenaion   -                  8.3      8.7
2499      1985   Fourth RAODA Power                    100.0            -       100.0
16021    1985   Second Primary Education               -               52.5     52.5
16031c    1985   Second On-Fa m ater Management         -               34.5     34.5
2552      1985   Energy Sector Loan                    178.0            -        178.0
2553      1985   Petroleun Reaources Joint Venture    55.0              -         55.0
2556fc    1985   Fiftb lAPDA Power                     100J 0 _lA                100I 0
Total                                                1,499.6  42.0  2,202.9  1.461.2
of which has been repaid                             5CI.1  4.6       4j3                                            a
Total now outeanding                                   998.5  37.4  2.158.6
Ano  t sold                  29.9
of which has been repaid    29.9                              -
Total now held by Bank and IDA4/                        998,5  37.4  23158J 6                                           0
Total undisbureed                                      638.2   2.7    82023  1.461.2
/a  The status of the projecta liated in Part A is deacribed in a *eparate report
a- all Bank/IDA financial projects in ezecution, which is updated tvice yearly
ad circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  Excludes the disbuared portion of lomn  and credita wbolly or partly for projecta
in the former Est Pakistan which bave n   been taken over by Dangladsb.
Ic  Not yet effective.
Id  Prior to exchange adjut ent.
/e  IDA Credita under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDR. The principal
is shown in US$ equivslent at the tine of negotiatio. Diebursed _ounrs are
computed at the exchange rate applicable on the transaction datee. Undisbursed
amounta are valued at the exchange rate applicable on the date of thid
stateent.
Lf  By using the arket rate -n dates of diabursemnto. the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAZ and Credit 1255-PAM (both fully diabureed) iL
$42.5 and $77.5. respectively.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMN OF IFC INVESTINTS (as of September 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                            Amount  In US$  Million
Year   Oblizor               Type of Business     Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of        Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.        Products             0.63     -        0.63
1959    Adamjee ludustries
Ltd.                 Textiles             0.75     -        0.75
1962-   Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.      Cement               5.25    0.42      5.67
1963-   PICIC                 Development
1969-                         Financing             -      0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products             Textiles             1.84    0.11      1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.        Paper Products      19.25    0.84     20.09
1982
1967-   Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.            Paper                5.38    2.02      7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilizers          1.00    2.92      3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.         Food and Food
Processing           2.40    0.36      2.76
1979    Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock      Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.        Petrochemicals      29.00    2.04    31.04
1980    Fauji Foundation      Woven Polyropy-
lene bags            1.78     -        1.78
1980    Premier Board
Mills Ltd.           Particle Board       2.70     -        2.70
1981    Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing           3.15    0.16      3.31
1982    Asbestos              Cement               4.02     -        4.02
1983    Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                 Petrochemicals     100.89    1.56    102.45
1985    National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market.      4.13    0.37      4.50
Total Gross Commitments                 182.17   11.32    193.49
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales             133.05    0.38    133.U
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC        49.12   10.94     60.06
Undisbursed (including participants)     38.28    0.51     38.79



-32-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:         Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
Twelve months
(b) Agency which prepared the project
PFIs and GOP
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
August 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
July 1985
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations
November 5, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 1986
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Each PFI to fulfill specified conditions, including
execution of SLA with COP, to obtain access to loan
proceeds (para. 49);



-33-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Execution of SLA between GOP and two PFIs, including
one NCB and one DPI (condition of effectiveness, para.
49);
(c) Detailed technical assistance program to be provided to
IDA by March 31, 1986 (para. 52); and
(d) GOP and Bank to review relending rates periodically to
ensure that they are maintained at mutually satisfac-
tory levels (para. 53).



IBRD 16248R
64. ,2                                                           U. S. S. R.      MAY lU
! X-- 5g7 HINA
PAKISTAN                                      ..-Hi
p   NATIONAL CAPITAL                               's. _                n
s   CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS                                             .
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                 , Q.
RAILWAYS                                    S! K*--   - 
4+   AIRPORTS                                 -      Chwwd  A.~s,           ft  o Cd
-  -  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
--     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS
3                                                                                                      I-2-
ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF                                  |      -           .
IRAN        .!                                                                                3qV       400
v~~~~~~~~~~~h LIMB 1                        tal
2d~~                                                                      - N e     d -
eN rIL 7METERS
/    ~~~~~~~~bMbM~~~~~W ..N N-IN-U
or 'v 0e-fta, Of
.Nle'b WNUI  
64                          6W                           7?T



