AfAl -z6 IL   -  /i4t
Document or
The World Bank                                   FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5823-PAK
J
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 6, 1985
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank mautorization.



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :                      9 '  *   -  -    --
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1          = Rs 15.7
Rs 1          = US$ 0.0637  -
Abbreviations Used
ABL       Allied Bank Limited
ADB       Asian Development Bank
ADBP      Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
BEL       Banker's Equity Limited
CCI       Controller of Capital Issues
DBI       Development Banking Institute
*1                   DFIs      Development Finance Institutions
DSCR      Debt Service Coverage Ratlio
GOP       Government of Pakistsn
HBL       Habib Bank Limited
ICP       Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP      Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
iiC       Industrial Investment Credit
KSE       Karachi Stock Exchange
MCB       Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP       National Bank of Pakistan
NCBs      National Commercial Banks
NDFC      National Development Finance Corporation
NIT       National Investment Trust
PBC       Pakistan Banking Council
PICIC     Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
PFIs      Participating Financial Institutions
SALs      Structural Adjustment Loans
SBFC      Small Business Finance Corporation
SBP       State Band of Pakistan
SFYP      Sixth Five Year Plan - FY83-FY87
SLIC      State Life Insurance Corporation
UBL       United Bank Limited



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY .......iii...... ..........*. ................       iii-iv
Is INTRODUCTION ......** ... *... * * *........*... ...  ..........          1
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ....... ...........                                2
A. Economic Setting ..          ......................................  2
-                B. Industrial Structure and Recent Performance .............             3
C. Industrial Strategy and Issues ................... 6-0...            4
D. Investment Prospects   ................  **** ................       5
III.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR          ......................s. .... ..o. .o..o. .o  5
A. The Financial System ............:.......................            5
B. Industrial Finance                                                   8
C. Financial Policy                     .....                           9
D. The Capital Market s....o..oo...o.;o...  ..                         11
IV.  BANK'S INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES              14
A. Past Lending and Industrial Strategy .......o...........            14
B. Impact of Past Operations                                           15
C. Rationale and Strategy for Future Institutional Lending .           17
Vs. THE PROJECT oesoooooooeeosoooooseoooo17
A. Project Objectives .....0..0.0........ 0...0.0.... 0......          17
B. Prcject Description and Design 18............  - .......os          i8
C. Policy and Procedural Changes .......18........... o....            i8
D. Technical Assistance 20...** ........ .      .    .....             20
E. Project Cost, Components and Financing Plan .............           20
VI.  PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIS) ................           21
A. Participating NCBs .                                                21
- ~~~~B. Participating DEIs                                                          26
C. Conditions for Participation.........0"00.0.00000000*0              37
VII.  THE PROPOSED LOAN 39................... o                              39
A. Amount and Allocation of Funds ..........................           39
B. Financial Package                                                   39
C. Administration ......W00....41
VIII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........                                  42
IXo RECOMMENDATIONS o ...43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in
June 1985. The mission members were Messrs. Dalla, Vivado (ASPrD), Bannon
(ASAPA), Mirza (CCMD) and H. Qureshi (RMP). Mr. Groves and Miss Barry
(ASPID) provided detailed imput on financial and institutional aspects.
This document has a resricted distributo and uay be used by reXip ets only i. the peo,mm of
tbeir ofrlci duties. Its contents may not otberwis be disclosed witout World Bhk aut |



-ii-
Annexes
1.   Projected Private Industrial Investment (FY85-FYB8)
2.   The Commercial Banking System
3.   Islamization of Pakistan's Financial System:  A Preliminary Assessment
4.   The Capital Market
5.   Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
6.   National Development Finance Corporation (UDFC)
7.   Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC)
8.   Projected Disbursements   -
9.   Selected Documents and Data Availa6le in Project File



-iii-
PAKISTAN
PROPOSED SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Project Summary
Borrower:                  Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:             Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) which
meet agreed eligibility criteria. These presently
include three development financing institutions
(IDBP, NDFC, PICIC) and three commercial banks
(Habib Bank, United Bank and Muslim Commercial
Bank). The National Bank of Pakistan will be
eligible for technical assistance. In turn, all
private sector industrial activities and related
services will be eligible for financing together
with the financing of balancing, modernising and
rehabilitation (BMR) projects in the public
industriaL sector. The Bank's funds will be used
to finance both fixed assets and permanent working
capital.
Amount:                    US$150.0 million equivalent consisting of Loan of
US$148 million and Credit of US$2 million
equivalent for technical assistance.
Co-Financing:              ADB will also provide US$i50 million equivalent on
terms and conditions similar to the proposed loan.
Terms:                     The proposed loan would be at the Bank's standard
terms of interest (8.82Z p.a.) and repayment (20
years inclusive of 5-year grace period), while the
Credit would be on standard IDA Credit terms.
Onlending from GOP to the PFIs would be at 10Z p.a.
for PICIC and IDBP and at 11Z p.a. for other PFIs,
with onlending to subborrowers at 141 p.a.
Subproject loans would have maturities of up to 15
years including a grace period of three years.  The
foreign exchange and interest rate risks would be
borne by GOP. The funds would finance 100% of
foreign exchange costs of direct imports of goods
and services, and up to 60Z of goods made locally
with imported inputs. Local currency financing
would be made avaiLable by PFIs and sponsors.
Project Description:       The Project constitutes a major vehicle for Bank
involvement in strengthening the financial sector
in Pakistan, and supports the movement toward
financial sector liberalisation and development
of the capital markets.
Tne Project would provide credit to cover the
foreign exchange cost of industrial equipment



-iv-.
imported by private firms seeking to acquire, build,
modernise or replace productive assets. The economic
rate of return estimated for subprojects approved
under the first Industrial Investment Credit was
between 15Z and 202, and similar investment perform-
ance is expected under the proposed project.
The Project would also provide technical assistance
for the training of managers in the 'participating
financial institutions and in reLated Government
agencies. The Project would also address financial
and institutional issues related to IDBP and PICIC
which were initiated under previous projects involv-
ing these institutions.
Given the record of the selected PFIs in utilizing
the previous Bank loan, institutional risks in the
proposed Project are acceptable. The institutional
arrangements for-the technical assistance component -
will require careful supervision because of the
nature and the number of institutions that are
expected to participate. The only significant
risk is whether utilisation and financiaL sector
reform would progress more slowly than expected
because of unforeseen changes in domestic and
international conditions. The Government remains
committed to the gradual implementation of financial
sector reform; its cautious and copsistent approach
appears likely to succeed.
Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year     FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93
~~~(dS-$MI  milon)T---~
Annual             22.5   22.5   30.0    37.5    15.0    15.0       7.5
Cumulative         22.5   45.0   75.0   112.'   127.5  142.5   150.0
Z                  15.0   30.0   50.0    75.0    85.0    95.0   100.0



PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (rIC) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01    Since 1977, GOP, has given greater emphasis to the role of private
industry. This policy shift is reflected in GOP's decisions to divest a number of
industrial units which were nationalized in 1972, open restricted industries to
private investment, limit investment in public sector manufacturing enterprises to
balancing and modernization and increase resource mobilization for investment in
private industry. Also, the government has reLaxed investment sanctioning
requirements and other industrial controls, and has increased investment and
ezport incentives for private industry. These- policy measures have succeeded -in
stimulating private investment and performance improvements. In May 1985, GOP
took a number of major measures to stimulate the capital market for private
investment. These included: a reduction in corporate taz rate from 50X to 40Z
for publicly listed companies; total exemption of dividends from income tax;
disinvestment of profitable public sector companies with an estimated market value
of Rs 2.0 billion; and permission for private investors to set up investment
companies. However, sustained growth will depend on a stable political and
economic climate as well as contin6ous measures to improve trade and industrial
policies and the financial system. -
1.02    The Project.  The proposed second Industrial Investment Credit (ic It)
seeks to improve the efficiency with which funds for industrial investment are
delivered by focusing on both the system and individual institutions. The project
also aims at increasing availability of equity -finance and non-bank long-term
resources through the development of a more efficient capital market. IIC II will
capitalize on the successful implementation of the first IIC project which has
improved the system of industrial finance involving the major development and
commercial banks (para. 4.04). The project would continue the Bank Group's direct
involvement with leading conmercial banks, initiated with the first Industrial
Investment Credit (IIC) project. The proposed IIC II Project incorporates
programs to continue strengthening appraisal and supervision capabilities of
participating commercial banks, and to improve the operating performance of the
development financing institutions (DFIs), particularly the Industrial Development
Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) and the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation (PICIC). This report outlines a US$300 million project of which
US$150 million would be provided by the Bank Group. A paralleL line of credit of
US$150 million would be provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to finance
other subprojects in the PFI pipeline. Bank Group financing would incorporate a
Bank loan of US$148 million to meet a portion of the foreign ezchange term lending



-2-
requirements of industry, and an IDA Credit of US$2 million for technical assis-
tance to help meet policy and institutional objectives. The proposed IIC II
Project forms an integral part of the Bank Group's industrial lending strategy in
Pakistan, in which a set of operations are geared to supporc expanded private
investment, efficiency improvements in public and private industrial enterprise,
and increased manufactured exports.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.  Economic Setting
2.01    Beginning in the late 1970s, GOP embarked on a program of reforms to
achieve financial stability, high growth and revival of private sector confidence.
Progress during the Fifth Plan (FY79-FY83) was considerable despite adverse exter-
nal factors, including a world recession, a 30Z decline in the external terms of
trade, and the Afghanistan crisis with its attendant requirements for increased
defense and refugee expenditures. GOP restored financial discipline by reducing
budget deficits and bank borrowings' and by enforcing stricter monetary policies.
Improvements in financial management were combined with price adjustments aimed at
correcting economic distortions and a program of longer-term reforms in key
productive sectors. As a result of these actions, during the eighties GDP growth
has averaged over 6%; inflation rates have declined giadually, private sector
confidence has increased and, during the early eighties, a manageable balance of
payments situation was maintained. Growth performance was good in industry,
agriculture, energy and exports.
2.02    The steadily improving performance of recent years was interrupted in FY84
due to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remittances, and the
carry-over of inflationary pressures from FY83. GDP growth slowed to 3.5% as a
result of a 6.2% fall in agricultural value added caused by adverse weather and
pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by 8.3% and services by 6.2Z. Fixed investment
rose by 6.5Z with private investment increasing by 11.5%, inflation levels reached
9% in FY84, up from 5.2% in FY83. Budgetary policies in FY84 continued to be
prudent. Current revenues and expenditures both increased by 20Z. As a result of
stagnant exports and lower remittances, balance of payments deteriorated, leading
to a reserve drawdown of US$113 million. Yet, considering the importance of
agriculture, the achievement of creditable growth in FY84 points to resilience in
Pakistan's economic structure, which is partly the result of recent Government
efforts to begin removing structural imbalances in the economy.
2.03    Although GDP growth rebounded to 8.4% in FY85, balance of payments and
budgetary performance deteriorated markedly. Higher GDP growth was the result of
recovery in agriculture, which expanded by 9.9%, and continued growth of 8.6% in
manufacturing. However, the strain on the balance of payments which emerged in
FY84 was further intensified in FY85. The current account deficit is estimated to
be US$1.6 billion compared to US$1 billion the preceding year. While imports
registered growth of only 3.7Z, exports are expected to fall by 1.3Z and workers'
remittances by 10.5%. At the end FY85, gross reserves were below US$600 million,
or less than one month of imports, reflecting a reserve loss of more than US$1
billion in one year, due mainly to decline in remittances from Pakistanis



-3-
overseas. As a resuLt of shortfalls in revenue receipts and higher expenditures,
the budget deficit increased by 40% in FY85 (from 5.6Z to 8X of GDP). Domestic
bank borrowings doubled to 3.4% of GDP, reversing the declining trend in deficit
financing since FY80. Inflation is expected to be about 6% to 7% as measured by
the GNP deflator, compared to 9Z in FY84.
2.04    The Government is in the process of implementing adjustment programs to
provide for greater public resource mobilization effort, including tax reform,
user charges, lower subsidies and increased self-financing by public enterprises.
Measures announced by GOP in the 1985 Budget Speech are initial steps in these
adjustments (para. 3.17). Given the more constrained outlook for official assis-
tance and migrant remittances, sustained improvements in exports and efficient
import substitution will be necessary to reduce foreign capital requirements. The
efficiency of the industrial sector will be a key factor in meeting these
objectives.
B. Industrial Structure and-Recent Performance
2.05    Pakistan has a fairly diversified industrial base.  Textiles, which
accounted for about 30% of manufacturing value added in the early 1970s, now
constitute only 15%. Other important sectors include food processing, engineering
goods, cement and fertilizers. In FY84, manufacturing contributed 18% of GDP and
employed 13% of the economically active population. Manufactured and semi-
manufactured goods represented 71X of total exports, of wbich more than half were
cotton products. Other important exports are carpets, leather -products, synthetic
textiles and fish products. During the early 1970s, the Government nationaLized
large segments of Pakistan's industrial sector. The present Government, which
took office in 1977, has reversed these policies by assigning the private sector a
leading role in industrial development, denationalizing most agro-processing and a
few manufacturing units, opening up areas for private investment and reducing
investment in public sector enterprises. Private industrial investment grew by an
average of 13.4% p.a. during FY78-FY84. The private sector, which in FY78
accounted for only 26% of manufacturing investment, increased its share to 59% in
FY84. However, while private industry now constitutes 85Z of value added in
manufacturing, the public enterprises remain important, due to their dominance in
a number of key subsectors, i.e., namely cement, fertilizers, chemicals,
petroleum, steel, motor vehicles and heavy engineering.
2.06    Government poLicies have contributed significantly to the recovery of the
industrial sector. The improved policy environment has been responsible for a
resurgence of private sector confidence which has led to growth in output and
investment. Although the poor cotton crop affected textile exports, with a few
exceptions other manufactured exports recorded strong growth. During FY84,
manufacturing value added growth slowed to 8.3% in real terms compared to an
average of 10.4Z over the previous five years, due to sluggish groiwth in textiles,
public enterprises ard exports. Private industrial investment a-hieved record
growth while public investment fdll sharply, continuing the decline characteristic



-4-
of recent years. While the performance of public manufacturing enterprises
remained substantially better than during the late 1970s, production growth and
profits declined in FY84. Output growth was strong, especially in cement, some
agro-processing aDd chemicals.
C.  Industrial Strategy and Issues
2.07    As proposed in the Sixth Plan, in July 1984 the Government issued a new
Industrial Policy Statement (IFS). The IPS reemphasizes the Government's coomit-
ment to a mixed economy, with the private sector as the "engine of growth" and the
public sector as investor of last resort. The IPS emphasizes the need to ration-
alize the tariff structure and continue a realistic exchange rate policy to
improve resource allocation and strengthen competitiveness of industry.
Investment sanctioning limits were raised from Rs 60 million to Rs 300 million in
project size, and from Rs 30 million to Rs 50 million in foreign exchange
requirements. The IPS reiterated the Goverinment's commitment to the development
of the Signalling System to monitor public enterprise performance, and link finan-
cial incentives to enterprise efficiency. The IPS also established standard, more
liberal terms for obtaining foreign private loans, suppliers' credits, technical
fees and royalty payments. All agreements conforming.to theie terms will be
approved automatically and need only be registered with the State Bank.
2.08    Although improved industrial performance in the eighties has been
noteworthy, sustained growth wilt depend on continued improvements in the incen-
tive structure, infrastructure, public enterprises, the development of the capital
market and further relaxation of government controls. The tariff structure
requires modification to provide a more uniform level of effective protection and
reduce the import substitution bias. Although industrial controls have been
liberalized, industry is still hampered by government controls on investments,
imports, access to foreign exchange, company formation and pricing. Industries
affected by price controls operate under cost-plus arrangements which discourage
operational efficiency; recognizing this, GOP removed price controls on cement in
July 1985. Infrastructure deficiencies, especially in energy, are a major cause
of project delays and undermine capacity utilization. In public enterprises, GOP
has delegated increased decision-making authority to the holding corporations and
increased salaries and performance incentives; these measures need to be comple-
mented by relaxation of price controls, increased autonomy at the enterprise
level, and more active consideration of divestiture options. In developing the
capital market, there is a need to expand the access of private investors to
equity finance from non-bank sources (Chapter III).



.
D. Investment Prospects
2.09    During FY80-FY84, growth in private industrial investme1it averaged 17Z
p.a. in nominal terms and 12.1Z in real terms.  Private investment in medium- and
large-scale industries (MLSI), 1/ the client base of the proposed project, grew by
18.5Z p.a. in nominal and 13.7Z in real terms.  In FY84, private investment in
MLSI amounted to Rs 5.1 billion, a nominal increase of 29% over the preceding
year. The total value of investments sanctioned since FY80 is Rs 63.4 billion;
major subsectors have been chemicals and petroleum products, non-metallic mineral
products (mainly cement), food products, textiles, metals and metal products.
Barring major political or economic setbacks, prospects appear favorable for a
continuation of buoyant investment trends.
2.10    Assuming nominal growth of 20Z p.a., private investment in MLSI during
FY8S-FY87 is estimated at Bs 22.1 bilrion, of which Rs 12.2 billion (US$794
million) or 55Z would be in foreign exchange (Annex 1). These estimates are
conservative when compaied with recent investment trends, the pipelines of PFIs
and investments recently sanctioned by the Investment Bureau. The proposed loan
-of US$150 million would support private investment in Pakistan by meeting part of
the demand for foreign exchange financing.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. The Financial System
3.01    Background.  The financial system in Pakistan consists of:  five national-
ized commercial banks (NCBs); seventeen foreign commercial banks (FCBs); four
specialized financial institutions; nine development finance institutions (DFIs);
several insurance companies; two leasing companies; two stock exchanges; and a
housing finance corporation. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), the central bank,
directs and regulates the financial system within overall policies set by GOP.
The Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) oversees and coordinates the activities of NCBs
and fulfills many of the functions previously discharged by commercial bank
shareholders. The Ministry of Finance monitors the operations of the other finan-
cial institutions.  While domestic currency for term financing has not been a
constraint in recent years, industrial investment has been hampered by weaknesses
in the financial delivery system. The first IIC project successfully addressed
this problem by expanding the number of channels for industrial finance, encourag-
ing competition among PFIs and strengthening industrial lending capabilities of
major financial intermediaries.  However, with the accelerated pace of industrial
investment since 1981, most investment has been financed through debt due to
1/ Medium- and large-scale industries are defined as those with fixed assets
(excluding Land and buildings) exceeding Rs 5 million at their original value.



-6-
inadequate depth in the capital market and lack of equity finance from the formal
capital markets. Moreover, the FY86 Budget Speech announced a number of important
measures designed to strengthen the financial sectors through the development of
capital markets and increased incentivesJfor equity financing relative to cowuer-
cial borrowing. TZgether with new pragmatic financing modes being introduced as
part of the Islamization process, these represent modest but important steps
toward more efficient financial markets in Pakistan.
3.02    The Courercial Banking System. 1/  Commercial banks play a dominant role
in Pakistan's financial system. As of June 30, 1983, assets totalled Rs 254
billion, or about 80Z of the assets of the financial system. The five MCBs
together accounted Ear about 94Z of deposits, 90% of advances and 87% of commer-
cial banks' net profits. Selected indicators for the commercial banking system
are presented in Table 1.
Table 1: The Comimercial Banking System,
Key Indicatorsg 1978-1984 /a
NCBs                 FCBs
1978   1983    l984      1978  1983  1984 /c
Deposits (Rs billion)                63.2   159.7   175..1    3.6   10.3  n.a.
Advances (Rs billion)                37.0    91.6   100.4    3.3   10.2  n.a.
Total Assets (Rs billion)            95.0   225.3   246.7    9.6   28.6  n.a.
Advances/Deposits (Z)                 58.5    57.4    57.3   92.0   99.0  n.a.
Capital and Reserves (Rs billion)    1.0       4.5     5.3.   0.2    0.8  n.a.
Capital/Deposit (Z)                    1.6     2.8     3.0    4.1    4.7  n.a.
Net Profits (Rs billion)               0.15    0.74    0.97   0.06   0.11 n.a.
Return on Total Assets Z              0.14    0.30    0.64   0.62   0.52 n.a.
Operating Costs as Z of Average
Total Deposits                      3.8      3.0     3.1    5.2    5.2  n.a.
Number of branches /b               7,038   6,931   6,777       39     59  n.a.
/a As of December 31.
T{ As of June 30.
7& Figures will be available in October 1985.
Source:  Crindlays Bank, June 30, 1983 and staff estimates.
3.03    Since 1979, a number of steps have been taken to improve the performance
of NCBs. NCBs have been aLlowed to build up their capital to more prudent levels
by limiting dividends to GOP. In turn this has increased the lending ratio base
of the NCBs, allowing them to undertake increased lending operations. These
actions have Led t.. a subsatntial increase in profitability with the share of NCBs
1/ Annex 2 provides a comprehensive discussion of the commercial banking
system.



-7-
in total commercial bank profitability increasing from 71Z in 1978 to about 90X in
1984. Branch expansion is no longer automatic and through a program of branch
consolidation a number of uneconomical branches have been closed. 1/ Expansion of
staffing, with the exception of recruitment of MBAs at middle management level,
has been stopped. A performance review system has been introduced and bank
employees can now be fired with three months' notice; increasingly, promotions are
based on merit rather than seniority. Central training institutes (e.g.,
Institute of Bankers) have been strengthened.  More recently, GOP, announced a
number of additional measures to improve the performance of the NCBs, including
the granting of greater operational autonomy, establishment of a
performance/profitability monitoring system with specific performance targets for
each NCB, and introduction of performance incentives based on after-taz
profitability.
3.04    The measures taken by GOP and PBC since 1979 have contributed to the
considerable improvement in overall performance and profitability of NCBs.  The
combined net profit after tax of the NCBs increased from Rs 150 million in 1978 to
Rs 970 million in 1984,*an annual compound grnwth rate of 36Z. However, the.
absolute profitability level remains relatively low and performance amoa NCBs
remains mixed with the return on total assets raftging from 0.9Z to 0.3%. The
major causes of relatively low NCB profitability are: GOP's high reserve require-
ments (35Z of deposits) and credit allocation policy, which directs NCBs to
finance priority sectors at low interest rates; & large network of low profit
branches in rural areas; non-payment of interest on loans to the public sector;
and general overstaffing. FBCs achieve profitability by catering to selected
corporate clients, and by undertaking a larger proportion of fee-based business
for which profit margins are higher.
3.05    Specialized Institutions. 2/  A number of specialized institutions also
provide assistance to industry, small business and housing.  Some of these
institutions are deposit takers while others offer only term financing facilities.
Key amongst these institutions for industrial financing are the DFIs, their sub-
sidiaries and the various mutual 'rust funds and underwriters. Among the DFIs
Banker's Equity Ltd. (BEL), which was originalLy set up to promote Islamic
instruments, especially equity finance, provides capital to private industry by
underwriting equity issues and arranging consortia finance participation from
NCBs. IDBP Lends to medium- and small-scale manufacturing units, directly and
through selected commercial banks.  NDFC provides term financing and working
capital to public and private sector industrial enterprises. A Regional
Development Finance Corporation was set up in FY84 as a subsidiary of NDFC to
1/ Over 200 branches were closed in 1984.
2/  The Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), the Federal Bank for
Cooperatives (FBC), and the Punjab Provincial Cooperative Bank (PPCB) provide
funds for rural agro-industries while the House Building Finance Corporation
(HBFC) provide home loans.



finance projects in less developed areas and recently, NDFC and the Rafiq Habib
Group have established a leasirg company (National Development Leasing
Corporation) with financial and technical assistance from IFC. PICIC, the onLy
financial institution with private ownership, makes foreign exchange loans to
medium- and large-scale industry. The Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP)
arranges industrial finar.ing through consortia of NCBs, underwrites equity issues
and operates a number of mutual fundt while the National Investment Trust (NIT)
also operates mutual funds and unit trust savings s-chemes. Three joint venture
companies, Pak-Kuwair,-Pak-Libya and Pak-Saudi, were estabLished in 1982 to
provide loans and venture capital to industry.. A Small Business Finance
Corporation (SBFC) provides short- and long-term loans to small-scale industries
and businesses while the Equity Participatian Fund (EPF) also provides equity
support to small-scaLz projects mainly in underdeveloped areas.
3.06    Due to historical developments, different Legal structures and changing
government policies, the DFIs became excessively compartmentalized and were con-
straiued in the range of financial sarvices which they could provide to industrial
clients. As discussed in Chapter 4, during 1983-1984, GOP took a number of -
measures to rationalize regulations affecting DFIs. These measures have Led to
increased competition among DFIs, a sounder financial basis especially for IDBP
and PICIC, and the provision of more comprehensive .i-tancial packages to private
in-westors. As a result, the ef_iciency of the industrial cre4it delivery system
has improved considerably.
B. Industrial Finance
3.07    Notable changes in the industrial financing system during the last decade
have included: the creation of a number of non-bank financial institutions; the
decline in the relative importance of established DFIs; and the emergence of the
NCBs as a force in term lending.  Initially, IDBP and PICIC were the main institu-
tions providirg term financing for industrial development. However, in 1982 NDFC
was allowed to expand its clientele to include the large- and madium-scale private
firms as well as public sector enterprises. Among the DFIs, NDFC is now the
largest industrial lending institution in Pakistan. Other institutions such as
BEL, ICP and the three joint venture compan.es also have increased their role in
term financing for private industry.
3.08    In FY79, the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) began assigning mandatory lend-
ing targets to NCBs on term loans to industry, to prevent the NCBs from avoiding
making loans at the concessional 11Z interest rate.  The targets were discontinued
after FY81 because NCBs found it difficult to use their allocations due to other
constraints on industrial investment, particularly foreign exchange shortages and
the banks' limited capacity to undertake project evaluation. Since FY82, SBP has
incorporated allocations for fixed industrial investment in the Annual Credit
Plan. If not fully utilized, the NCBs could not lend these amounts for other
purposes. Between FY81 and FY85, SBP allocations for fixed industrial investment
increased from Rs 0.6 billion in FY81 to Rs 2.2 billion (or by 350%), while
allocation utilization increased from 671 in FY81 to 78Z in FY85. Historically,
NCBs were relatively passive participants in industrial term lending. The NCBs



-9-
were members of consortia led by ICP, BEL and NDFC, relying on the project evalua-
tions of these institutions. With technical assistance under IIC I, HBL and UBL
upgraded their term lending skills. Under the the proposed project, UBL and
Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB), are also expected to be involved in direct term
lending to industry.
C. Financial Policy
3.09    Islamization. 17  As of July 1985, Pakistan's financial system and all
domestic currency transactions are based on new financing modes consistent with
Islamic principles. Interest rates have officially been removed from the system.
New financing arrangements, proposed or in operation, relevant to industrial
finance include: (i) mark-ups, a sale with a profit margin which varies according
to the term; (ii) Term Finance Certificates (TFCs),21 which would be bonds with a
risk premium; (iii) Musharikas, designed to meet working capital needs, in which
profits are shared according to a pre-:agreed formula; (iv) Modaraba companies,
which operate as investment funds in accordance with Islamic tenets; and
(v) hire-purchase and lqasing.
3.10    Although it is too early to determine the impact of Islamization on the
financial system and industrial finance, initial indications are that, on the
whole, Islamization is having a positive effect. By not imposing restrictions on
the terms and conditions which can be negotiated between lenders and borrowers,
GOP is effectively freeing financial rates of return. This liberalization applies
in particular to term financing under TFCs and the arrangements for hire-purchase
and leasing. As TFCs are expected to carry effective rates of 14% - 15% p.a., in
contrast with past term lending of 11, which should increase incentives for
financial institutions to engage in Lending for fixed industrial investment. 31
In addition, the introduction of new financing mechanisms such as hire-purchase,
leasing and Modarabas has expanded both financing options available and the role
of the private sector in financial intermediation. Modarabas in particular offer
the opportunity for project sponsors to raise funds directly from the public.
Islamization, with its emphasis on equity or quasi-equity forms of financing
investment, also should lead to a deepening of the capital market. It is now
clear that most financing will take place through mark-ups, both short and long-
term, which offer security of principal and reguLar income flows, thus avoiding
most of the uncertainty and risk in an rslamic system based on profit-and-loss
sharing.
1/ See Annex 3 for a detailed discussion of Islamization.
Z/ Some TFCs have been issued, but use has shown that some modifications to the
concept are needed before they can become a major financing instrument.
2/ Under the Islamic system, there is no ceiling on rates of return for term
lending.



-10-
3.11    Interest Rates.  Before the full conversion to Islamization, Pakistan's
interest rate scructure was characterized by a crossing of rates; deposit rates
rose whiLe lending rates fell with maturity. The interest rate structure provided
a clear incentive for banks to favor short-term lending at 14% and short-term
deposits at 5.5Z rather than making Long-term loans at llZ and mobilizing term
deposits at 9% to 12Z. With 14Z - 15% interest rates on TFCs and 10 to 20% on
mark-ups, the distortions in the interest structure have been reduced markedly. 1/
Also with Islamization, interest rates for priority sector lending have been
increased and will be the same as for non-priority sectors. 2/ With inflation
rates projected to remain below 10, interest rates are expected to be substan-
tially positive. However, if interest rates were to become negative, PFIs couLd
adjust rates for term and working capital loans, under parameters established by
SBP.
3.12    Credit Allocation.  While the growth and distribution of domestic credit
in Pakistan is predominantly governed by a centralized allocation system, GOP is
using the impact of Islamisation and the resulting market-determined interest rate
structure to substitute for this process. Currently the SBP is responsible for
determining and managing the Annual Credit Plan (ACP) in close consultation with
GOP. The ACP has a central role in determinini the overall level of credit and
its distribution, setting maximum volumes of lending for each bank and financial
institution. Overall ceilings are disaggregated by economic-sector and between
private and public sectors. This detailed system of credit allocation somewhat
preempts the intermediating and allocative functions of the financial system.
However, in practice the system is impLemented with considerable flexibility. The
National Credit Consultative Council, charged with developing each ACP, is com-
posed of representatives of financial institutions and the private sector as well
as government officials. Performance in utilizing credit allocations and the
appropriateness of individual ceilings are reviewed quarterly , with needed
adjustments made. To introduce additional flexibility, the SBP has allowed finan-
cial institutions to trade ceilings within the overall credit expansion targets
and has set up an Industrial Credit Cell to monitor and improve the flow of
credit to the industrial sector. To date the credit allocation system has func-
tioned reasonably well in channeling resources to priority sectors as well as
meeting the credit needs of private industry. With greater reliance on market-
determined interest rates, further relaxation in the credit allocation system may
be possible.
1/ Long-term interest rates of 14% - 15% are considered a realistic indicator
of the cost of capital in Pakistan.
2/ SBP specifies mandatory credit targets for NCB lending to priority sectors:
agriculture, small businesses, small-scale industries and tobacco marketing.
Total priority lending accounts for a small proportion of NCB advances-less
than 10% in FY84-and in most cases these minimum targets are exceeded.  Of
these, lending for fixed agricultural and industrial investment carried the
concessional 11% interest rate.



3.13    Credit aLlocations to the private sector are based on the overall money
supply growth target. To date, GOP's domestic bank borrowing has not crowded out
lending to the private sector although inadequate domestic resource mobilization
efforts and the increasing financing requirements of a growing economy could
squeeze credit to the rapidly expanding private industrial sector. During FY85,
GOP's domestic bank borrowing was substantially higher than projected in the
Credit Plan and these pressures are expected to continue, indicatLng a precaution-
ary need to widen the sources and methods of financing private sector industrial
investment. Strengthening the stock market, improving incentives for equity
financing and encouraging the development of secondary markets to enhance the
liquidity of long-term and equity financing would widen the presently restrictive
pattern of industrial finance considerably.  One of the main objectives in the
preparation and design of the proposed second IIC project has been to assist GOP
in developing more efficient capital and secondary markets for securities.
D. The Capital Market 1/
3.14    Stock exchanges which functioned in Karachi and Lahore prior to independ-
ence were re-established in 1949 and 1970 respectively. The Karachi Stock
Exchange (KSE) was buoyant during the late 1950s and most of the 1960s.
Constraints on private sector profitability in the late 1960s,-followed by the
loss of East Pakistan, the massive devaluation in 1972, and the Government's
nationalization program depressed the capital market which continued to stagnate
throughout the 1970s. Although the stock market has revived somewhat as a result
of the improved economic climate and government measures to encourage the private
sector, it remains a relatively marginal source of funds for industrial
investment.
3.15    Structure.  About 8OZ of listed shares are controlled by management groups
and public sector investment institutions. High concentration of holdings is
eased only marginally through floatation of mutual funds. Most companies rarely
issue marketable debt instruments; when companies do, the instruments tend to be
privately placed   Government securities are placed with financial institutions by
SBP which maint.- .s their value at or close to par, thus precluding trading.
Given these constraints, stock exchanges mainly trade a relatively small number of
common shares. The regulatory framework for stock exchanges consists of legisLa-
tive requirements in conjunction with a high degree of internal self-regulation
imposed by the stock exchanges on members and listed companies. In practice,
regulations are not strictly enforced and there is considerable scope for improv-
ing the functioning of both exchanges. While there are 250 members in the KSE and
120 in the Lahore Stock Exchange (LSE) only a small number are active; stock
exchange members are both brokers and jobbers.
3.16    Performance.  Despite increased activity in recent years, the stock market
remains thin, being characterized more by a lack of quality securities than insuf-
1/ For a detailed AnAlysis/description of The Capital Market, see Annex 4.



.
-12-
ficient demand. As a result of the improved economic cLimate and government
efforts to encourage the private sector, conditions have been relatively buoyant
in recent years. Turnover and share values have increased (Table 2) and new
issues, although small in number, are generally oversubscribed (by 17 times in
FY84 and 3 times in FY85). However, due to the structure of share ownership, of
the 353 listed companies on the KSE, only about 150 are traded, with active daily
markets in about 30. The LSE has 247 listed companies, most ofwhich are also
listed on the KSE; LSE's trading activity is insignificant. In general, multina-
tionals are the best performers as they operate in more profitabLe sectors and pay
high dividends.
Table 2: Karachi Stock Exchange Companies
Prices and Turnover
Aggregate       General
-   Market VaLue     Index of       Turnover
Year Ended       Number       Paid-up   of Ordinary      Share Price        of
December 31   of Comp4nies   Capital        Siares      (1975176=100)    Shares
(Rs million)..                      (No  TO)
1981           311         8,078         8,554           128.7         35,282
1982           324          9,439       11,267           163.8         50,236
1983           327          9,995       15,201           207.6         76,028
1984           346         11,496       17,770           232.1        115,670
1985           353         11,P85       21,956           258.4         33,110 1/
1/  January-May 1985.
Source: Karachi Stock Exchange.
3.17    There is considerable potential for expanding the stock market in
Pakistan, as evidenced by the fact that at present there are more than 10,000
operational private companies but only 353 listed companies. As part of the
preparation for this project the Bank Group initiated an active dialogue with GOP
on measures to strengthen capital markets in Pakistan. The Government's reaction
has been positive; GOP announced a number of important measures in the FY86
Budget. These include:
(i) reduction in the corporate tax for listed companies from 50% to 40%
(privately held companies are taxed at 55Z);
(ii) income tax exemption on dividends paid by listed companies;
(iii) a decisien to allow private investment companies (local or foreign
owned) to perform all banking functions except deposit taking;
(iv) disinvestment of shares valued at Rs 2 billion of shares in public
sector companies through secondary offerings in FY86; and



-13-
(v) introduction of bearer bonds in foreign and local currency to attract
"black money" and mobilize additional resources.
The tax concessions and the increase in the supply of shares should have a posi-
tive impact on the stock market. The emergence of bearer bonds which can be
traded in the stock exchange and new private sector investment companies also
should expand the range of financing sources for the corporate sector in Pakistan.
3.18    While by Pakistan standards the measures taken by GOP are significant,
they need to be complemented by steps to encourage a smoother functioning of stock
exchanges, promote more market-oriented corporate finance services in the pricing
and distribution of securities, and develop a market for short-term corporate
paper. A number of additional measures have been discussed with GOP including:
(i) issuing of bearer shares to attract "bLack money"; (ii) deregulation of under-
writing activities; (iii) introduction of market pricing for new share issues;
(iv) introduction of short-term corporate commercial paper; and (v) licensing of
private comuercial banking. The Government has referred these proposals to the
recently established De-regulation Commissiorn and there are good prospects chat
some or alL of these measures will be implemented during FY86/FY87. At the
request of the KSE, GOP has agreed to provide technical assistance from the TA
component of the first IIC project to modernize KSE operations. IFC is coordinat-
ing wich GOP/KSE and the LSE on the development of TORBand serection of consult-
ants for the assignment.
3.19    At present, the corporate sector has no financial instruments to channel
"black money" directly into productive investment. The issuing of bearer shares,
a class of common stock in bearer form with the same dividend And residual asset
entitlements as common stock, would direct "black money" toward equity investment
and would help correct the undercapitalized structure of Pakistan's corporate
sector. Underwriting is carried out by a few syndicates of DFIs and banks, with
fees determined by a rigid administrative schedule bearing no relation to market
conditions.  Freeing underwriting should expand the number of underwriters and
subject fees to market competition. New issue pricing is determined not by the
market but by the Controller of Capital Issues (CCI) with new issues priced
through a formula whereby existing owners share one-half of the difference between
the company's net asset value and par value. This acts as a strong disincentive
for conversion of private to publicly-held companies since existing owners are not
permitted to set share prices in accordance with market perceptions of the
company's prospects and risk pots.-tial.  Short-term marketable commercial paper
issued by established and profiL.. .le companies would provide an additional source
of funding outside the banking system and lead to a secondary money market; this
would add depth to the capital market and improve its allocative role. The intro-
duction of private domestic banking would add a strong element of competition for
NCBs and would expand the range and efficiency of financial services offered. As
an extension of GOP's decision to allow private investment companies, the setting
up of venture capital companies aLso should be encouraged.



-14-
IV. BANK'S INDUSTRIAL LENDINC STRATECY
A. Past Lending and Industrial Str&segy
4.01    As of December 31, 1984, Bank Group commitments to Pakistan amounted to
about US$3.2 billion, while IFC has made investments of US$179 million in 15
enterprises and has assisted in setting up the National Development Leasing
Corporation, a joint venture between a private sector group and NDFC. Of the Bank
Group financing, public and private industry accounted about US$0.9 billion or
28Z. Bank Group lending.through financial intermediaries for industrial projects
has been channeled through 16 loans and credits totalling US$534 million, of which
11 loans and credits totalling US$244 million have been made to PICIC for onlend-
ing to medium- and large-scale private sector projects, four loans and credits
totalling US$130 milLion have been made to IDBP to provide term loans directLy and
through commercial banks to a large-number of small-scale industrial projects, one
line of credit of US$30 million was channeled through the NDFC for onlending to
public manufacturing enterprises and the first IIC for US$100 million was chan-
neled through the DFIs and a major commercial bank (HBL).  The Bank Group's direct
industrial lending mainly for the public manufacturing sector amounted to about
US$430 million, consisting of industrial imports (US$220 million), fertilizer
-; 'loans (US$161 million), refinery engineering (US$12 million)-and industrial
estates (US$6.5 million).
4.02    Prior to the first IIC project, Bank Group lending through financial
intermediaries included loars to individual DFIs for ter= lending mainly to medium
and large private industry, and lending for smaLl-scale industry by commercial
banks, with refinance by IDBP. Lending to DFIs was aimed largely at the promotion
and strengthening of a DFI as a vehicle for efficient intermediation of financiaL
resources. Another major objective of the Bank's DFI lending was to provide the
foreign exchange needed for industrial development, to support GOP's industrial
development goals, particularly those aimed at encouraging the private sector,
promoting regional development and labor intensive enterprise, and developing
exports. The rationale for dealing with the DFIs individually was their clearly
defined roles in different market segments. IDBP concentrated on SSIs, NDFC dealt
with the public sector and PICIC focused on medium- and large-scale private
industries. However by 1980 considerable overlap in the cLient base of the DFIs
had developed with IDBP and PICIC lending to the same client groups and NDFC's
Charter had been amended to enable it to lend to the private sector. Because IDBP
and PICIC had inadequate institutional and financial capabilities to respond to
the increasing credit demands from the private sector, GOP instructed the NCBs to
fill the gap and they became a major source of term finance for industry. In
1983, in view of these changes in the financial system, the Bank Group shifted the
focus of its lending strategy to focus on the industrial finance system as a whole
with the objectives of better positioning the Bank Group to discuss financial
sector issues with GOP, influencing the roles and performance of major institu-
tions and improving the industrial Lending capabilities of the comiercial banks
which had become major financial intermediaries. The Bank Group's first IIC



*                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~-15-
project was the vehicle to implement the strategy. Experience with the first IIC
project was highly satisfactory (para. 4.04).
S. Impact of Past Operations
4.03    Past DFI Operations. 1/ Performance under past direct DFI operations has
been mixed, with institutional upgrading significantly constrained by political
and economic developments, particularly from 1970 until 1980. The loss of assets
on the independence of Bangladesh, combined with the devaluation of the rupee in
1972, caused both IDBP and PICIC severe financial problems which impacted upon
their organization and staffing. A Project Performance Audit Report - PPAR -
(SECM 79-494) on Cr. 177-PAK to IDBP issued in June 1979 focused upon the develop-
ment impact of the project and on the institutional objectives. Operationally,
the project impact was satisfactory. The financing of 65 subprojects in the
private sector created 11,600 jobs at a job/cost ratio of US$3,400. The ex ante
ERR of the projects was between 16Z - 50Z.  Institutionally the impact was limited
and the PPAR stressed the need for careful monitoring of IDBP's operations and
continued efforts to revitalize it. Subsequeatly, the Bank Group and ADB worked
closely with GOP to revitalize IDBP, and by 1981 sufficient progress had been made
to enable the Bank Group to use IDBP as the administrating agency for two further
lines of credit for SSI development (Cr. 1186-PAK and Cr. 1499-PAK) with IDBP
providing refinance to the cosmercial banks for small industry.loans. As with
IDBP, PICIC experienced severe financial problems during the 1970s. The Bank
Group worked closely with GOP to revitalize PICIC during this period and granted
three loans and credits, each with significant technical assistance components
focussed on policies, procedures and standards. The PPAR on Ln. 590 (SECM
78-537), issued in June 1978 focused on PICIC's serious portfolio problems and the
need for diversification and greater resource mobilization efforts. The Project
CompLetion Reports for Loan 961-PAK and Loan 1326-PAK noted the beneficial impact
of the credit components vhich financed 40 medium-/large-scale subprojects in the
private sector, creating about 6,300 jobs at a job/cost ratio of US$25,500. Ex
ante ERR on projects was between 102 - 40Z. Under the two loans, PICIC's new
management took up the institutional issues noted in the earlier PPAR, and made
considerable progress in resolving its operational difficulties, although further
efforts are needed to sustain the improvements. In April 1984, several major
organizational changes were made in PICIC's top management and the structure of
PICIC's operational management was revised. Unlike IDBP and PICIC, NDFC did not
suffer from the events of the 1970s. The Project Completion Report on Cr. 546-PAM
issued in October 1982 noted that the credit component of the project had been
effective. Twenty-two subprojects, mainly in the private sector, were financed
creating 6,600 jobs at a job/cost ratio of US$36,000. The ex ante ERR on the
subprojects ranged from 15X - 50%. The PCR also noted that NDFC was well pLaced
to contribute to industrial development notwithstanding its venture into the new
area of private sector financing. Since 1982, NDFC's operational and financial
performance has been satisfactory, although many of the subprojects financed by
NDFC have yet to complete their repayment grace periods.
1/ For a detailed analysis of the operational performance of IDaP, NDFC and
PICIC, see Chapter VI.



-16-
4.04    First Industrial Investment Credit (IIC) Project.  In 1983 the Bank Group
concluded that while past Lending to individual DFIs had significantly achieved
its institution-building objectives, there were serious deficiencies in the
Government's industrial and financial poLicies which inhibiced appropriate
industrial growth. It was decided that, in addition to institution building,
industrial and financial sector policy improvements should be an essential objec-
tive of future Bank Group lending to the industrial seccor. Thus the first IIC
project (Ln. 2380/Cr. 1439-PAK) expanded the Bank's involvement in the financial
system, through the use of commercial banks as weil as vFIs as financial inter-
mediaries for term lending to medium- and large-scale industries. Initially, four
financial institutions (IDBP, NDFC, PICIC and HBL) were eligible to participate in
the project. The UBL, the fifth PFI, became eligibLe in late November 1984. The
impLementation of the project has been highly satisfactory. The use of a larger
number of efficient outlets has benefited private investors by reducing the
project processing time and increased the range of financiaL services investors
can obtain from a single financial institution. The competitive pressure, more
stringent eligibility criteria, and implementation of action programs to improve
operating standards, has resulted in the PFIs becoming more efficient and market
oriented; competition between DFIs has developed rapidly in some areas. Overall,
there has been improvement in the financial performance of all the DFIs, espe-
ciaLly IDBP and PICIC, although their financial viability is still fragile and
will require careful monitoring. The DFIs which lacked domestic resources (IDBP
and PICIC) have developed close working relationships with the commercial banks to
offset the deficiency. The first IIC project also has succeeded to a large extent
in rationalizing regulations affecting DFIs. IDBP is now allowed to make working
capital loans, mobilize deposits,.and offer export-import finance. PICIC has been
given permission to participate in the interbank market, cake working capital
loans, and underwrite shares while NDFC now has the power to sanction projects
without prior clearance of the Investment Promotion Bureau.
4.05    As of June 30, 1985, IIC I was fully committed a year ahead of the
original schedule. In addition, there were seven pending projects totalling US$20
million which could not be accommodated because of the unavailability of funds.
However, total disbursements to date (September 30, 1985) are only US$10.6 million
or liZ of the credit component, which is less than the rate of disbursement (45Z)
anticipated at the time of appraisal. Of the US$94.7 million available for
project financing, PICIC utilized 33Z (US$31.6 milLion), HBL 28Z (US$26.3
million), NDFC 22Z (US$21.1 million) and IDBP 17% (US$15.7 million).  PICIC and
NDFC initially concentrated their efforts in utiLizing a US$100.0 million credit
line from ADB, which was fully committed in February 1985. Project funds were
used to finance 42 subprojects with satisfactory domestic resource costs and
estimated average internal economic and financiaL rates of return of 15 or more.
The sectoral distribution of project approvals was: textiles 25%, food and allied
industries 22%, sugar 19%, paper products 11, engineering 11%, cabLe manufacture
8% and other 4%.
4.06    From the US$2.0 million TA component, 10 technical assistance programs
amounting to SDR 1.0 million have been approved. More than two-thirds of these
were for training PFI staff while the balance was for sector work and organization



-17-
studies. A major training program carried out under the sponsorship of the PBC in
June 1984 was very successful and has enhanced the NCB's capabilities in project
finance. A second program wiLl be carried out later this year. The Development
Banking Institute (DBI), which is owned jointly by PBC and the DFIs, is now fully
functional and has provided project appraisal training to the staff of DFIs and
NCBs on an on-going basis. The Institute was supported under the first IIC
project and will continue to be supported through NDFC under the proposed project.
C. Rationale and Strategy for Future Institutional Lending
4.07    The Bank Group's industry strategy in Pakistan encompasses sector work and
lending operations geared to: accelerating structural adjustment in the
industrial sector, and supporting GOP's efforts to revitalize the private sector,
improving public enterprise efficiency, strengthening the financial system, and
increasing exports in line with Pakistan's comparative advantage. An Export
Development Loan (EDL) is being formulated with GOP to support further structural
adjustment in the sectoi. Issues which would be addressed include: reform in
trade and industrial incentives, with a particular emphasis on removing barriers
to export expansion; deregulation; public enterprise efficiency; and pricing
decontrol. The proposed EDL would build on past sector work including the
analysis of export and related import incentives, a comprehensive study of effec-
tive protection, and development of a system for monitoring 8nd rewarding perfor-
mance of public enterprises. The reforms complement those taken to address the
issues affecting the financial system including the need to strengthen the capital
markets, which are being implemented in the context of the proposed Second IIC
Project.  For the public manufacturing sector the Bank Croup's strategy is to
focus on selected subsectors for which there are good prospects for achieving
major subsector reforms and improvements in the management and efficiency of
public sector units.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01    The proposed second IIC project was identified by a supervision mission,
which visited Pakistan in August 1984, to review progress of the first IIC
project. The strong demand for credit under the first IIC project and investment
projections indicated that PFIs needed further foreign exchange resources to
maintain their industrial project financing momentum. The proposed project will
continue to support GOP's policy of promoting private industrial investment.
Specific objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) develop more efficient capital markets with the objective
of increasing the sources of equity finance for industry
(paras. 3.14 to 3.19).



-18-
(b) ensure a stable flow of term finance to private industry by
increasing outlets and the range of services offered by them;
(c) continue institution building programs of PFIs, i.e., diversification
programs, development of accounting and management information
systems, organization studies, training, and resource planning; and
(d) stimulate further competition among PFIs as a means of improving
the services offered to investors.
Under the proposed IIC II project, the coverage of the system will be expanded by
the inclusion of a third commercial bank, KCB, which will give the project six
outlets which together finance about 70Z of industrial investment in Pakistan.
B. Project Description and Design
5.02    The basic concept of the proposed project is to complement, and expand the
focus of the first IIC by inclusion of new PFIs and through the development of
capital and secondary securities markets. The proposed project would involve a
loan of US$148 million, for onlending by the PFIs and a Credit of US$2 million for
technical assistance to continue institutional upgrading programs, organization
and systems reviews and subsectoral studies. Subject to compliance with
eligibility criteria, six PFrs will onlend Bank funds to viable industrial firms
in the private sector. They will be responsible for appraising projects in
accordance with Bank standards and all subproject appraisals,.as under the first
IIC project, will include calculation of internal economic rates of return (IE3R),
internal financial rates of return (IFUR) and domestic resource costs (DRC).
Although sectors such as agro-processing, construction, mining, shipping and
utilities are eligible, the bulk of the loan is expected to go to manufacturing;
with all industrial subsectors eligible for financing except the sugar industry
w1here only balancing, modernization, and expansion of existing profitable mills
will be considered. The project is intended to finance mainly mediumr and larger-
scale enterprises and the asset size of enterprises financed under the project is
expected to range from US$2.0 million to US$10.0 million.
C. Policy and Procedural Changes
5.03    InstitutionaL Upgrading.  The Project scope would enable the Bank Group to
continue working with GOP to address the problems affecting the flow of industrial
finance. The capabilities of IDBP and PICIC would be reinforced further by intro-
ducing operational and institutional improvements, and upgrading programs would be
implemented in the other institutions, as necessary, to enable their participation
in the proposed project. Under the proposed Project, appraisal and supervision
capabilities of the NCBs would continue to be strengthened and their participation
would enable them to provide their clients with a full range of banking services
including foreign exchange term Loans.



-19-
5.04    Regulations Affecting DFrs.  Although IDBP, NDFC and PICIC lend to similar
target groups, each has been subjected to different regulatory controls. IDBP is
a scheduled bank and falls under the supervision of the SBP. NDFC is an
autonomous agency under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. PICIC is a
private company and is supposed to operate independently, although 49X of its
share capital is held by public sector institutions. With their different legal
structures and organizational arrangements, the DFIs operate under different
parameters which have created anomalies both in the services they can provide and
in che fiscal treatment of their profits. These differences are summarized below:
IDBP         NDFC          PICIC
Term Loans                                     yes           yes          yes
Deposits /a                                    yes           yes           no
Export Finance and Foreign Exchange            yes           yes           no
Corporate Tax                         -        yes            no          yes
Sanctioning Authority                          yes            no          yes
Working Capital Loans /b                       'yes          yes          yes
/a  IDBP, as a scheduled bank, can take deposits, but has only recently
begun to do so. PICIC, as a private company, is prevented from taking
deposits by the Bank's Nationalization Act of 1974.
/b Until 1982, PICIC did not have adequate domestic resources to make
working capital loans, while IDBP was restricted by its Charter.
5.05    The need to further rationalize regulations affecting the DFIs to enable
them to provide clients with more comprehensive financial services has been recog-
nized by GOP. The conditions under which NDFC operates can be considered a model
for IDBP and PICIC, to allow them to diversify and provide a full range of banking
services. Under the first IIC, COP took a number of measures to rectify the
operating anomalies. An amendment to IDBP's Act in November 1983 expanded the
scope of its operations; IDBP now is active in making working capital loans and
plans to mobilize additional domestic resources through TFCs (para. 6.12). NDFC
recently has been allowed sanctioning authority, which was previously limited to
IDBP and PICIC. PICIC now is allowed to mobilize local currency resources in the
form of interbank deposits and credit lines from the SBP for onlending purposes.
PICIC management has taken advantage of these facilities and has already made a
substantial volume of working capital loans. PICIC has also requested SBP to
allow it to offer import-export finance to its clients and SBP is expected to
respond favorably. With these changes, the three DFIs now operate under largely
consistent competitive parameters. In the area of taxation where the DFIs are
subject to different treatment GOP is reluctant to exempt PICrC-a private
corporation-from corporate tax, as it fears that this will create an undesirable
precedent. However, GOP is willing to allow IDBP and PICIC a higher spread to
compensate for the tax factor and has agreed that they be given a spread of 4%
compared with 3Z for NDFC and the NCBs as a partial solution to the differences in
tax treatment.



-20-
D. Technical Assistance
5.06    The proposed Project includes an IDA Credit of US$2 million to provide
assistance to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the PFIs, improve the
efficiency of the banking system and the operations of the capital market. The TA
component would supplement an approximate equivalent funded by *he PFIs to meet
the local currency costs of training programs and sectoraL studies. The technical
assistance is divided into three subcomponents: training (US$1.0 million);
organization and systems studies (US$0.5 million); and subsector reviews (US$0.5
million) A major part of-the training component will be used by the PFIs to
strengthen their project appraisal capabilities. Based upon the PFI TA programs
discussed and agreed during negotiation, GOP would ensure that, by March 31, 1986,
the DFIs, PBC and the Stock Exchanges jointly would provide a consolidated
program, satisfactory to IDA, for the use of consultants and overseas training.
IDBP and PICIC would be major users of the funds allocated for organisation and
systems studies.  IDBP has proposed a comprehensive review of its organisation
structure, while PICIC proposes to examine the benefits from diversification into
leasing, working capital financing, export/import financing and equity funding..
GOP would allocate part of the TA funds to the PBC, for activities to improve the
efficiency of the banking system. The KSE and LSE will also have access to the TA
funds to implement the findings of the consultants' review due in early 1986. For
all technical assistance subprojects, the Bank Group will approve the TORs, the
selection of consultants and their terms of appointment.
E.  Project Cost. Components and Financing Plan
5.07    As of June 30, 1985, the projected total funding requirements of fixed
private industrial investment in medium- and large-scale industries by the PFIs
during FY86 - FY88 was about US$1.3 billion with a foreign exchange requirement of
about US$0.6 billion (Annex 1). The project funds would meet part of the foreign
exchange requirements of 40 to 45 subprojects (US$300 million) which form part of
the PFrs total pipeline of about 100 projects. The proposed project will consist
of two components: US$148.0 million of IBRD funds for onlending and US$2 million
of IDA funds for technical assistance (para. 5.06). The US$148 million project
component will finance about 25X of the total foreign exchange costs with the
remaining foreign exchange requirement filled by a US$150 million parallel ADB
loan (with terms and conditions similar to the proposed project). 1/ The IBRD
funding would represent about 18.6% of the estimated foreign exchange requirements
of projected investments in the medium- and large-scale private industrial invest-
ment over the next two to three years.
1/ ADB has scheduled the appraisal of its Xndustrial Investment Project in
September 1985, with Board approval expected by January 1986.



-21-
VI. PARTICIPATINe FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
A. Participating NCBs 1/
General
6.01    Although all five NCBs are involved in term lending operations, the bulk
of term lending to industry is made by EBL, JUBL National Bank& of Pakistan (NBP),
the Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB) and with the Allied Bank Ltd. (ABL) involved to a
lesser extent. Under the first IIC project, HBL and UBL created separate project
sections for appraisal and end-use, recruited suitable staff, implemented training
programs in project appraisal and have developed satisfactory financial and tech-
nical appraisal capabilities. In preparation for participation in the proposed
project MCB has set up a project finance division with staffing and procedures
acceptable to the Bank. While NBP has expressed strong interest in participating.
in the project, it would need to establish a suitable project appraisal section
and employ staff capable of carrying out project appraisals to Bank Group
standards. NBP will have access to technical assistance funds under the project
and one year after the effectiveness of the loan, the Bank and GOP will jointly
review NBP's eligibility to participate in the project as a PFI. In the meantime,
it is proposed that, subject to fulfillment of conditions of eligibility, HBL, MCB
and UBL participate in the Project. During negotiations, understandings would be
reached with the NCBs on collection targets for the aggregate of subprojects
financed under SSI I, SSI II, IIC I and the proposed Project.   To maintain a
satisfactory level of portfolio infection, this collection rate should be not less
than 701 of total dues of principal and interest.
Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL)
6.02    Background.  BBL was established in 1942 by the Habib Group and expanded
its operations with all facets of commercial banking activities. In 1972, HBL was
nationalized by GOP but unlike other NCBs, was able to retain the core of its
original staff and has operited more on a commercial basis. Presently HBL is
Pakistan's largest NCB with about 1,900 local branches and 83 overseas branches.
As of December 31, 1984, HBL's total assets were Rs 91 billion (US$6.0 billion).
6.03    Organization, Management and Staffing.  BBL is managed by an executive
board consisting of the president of the bank and three senior executive vice
presidents each responsible for a portfolio of departments. The Executive Board
is assisted by a Central Credit Committee (chaired by a senior member of the
Board) which can approve transactions of up to Rs 40 million when adequate funding
1/  Annex 2 gives a detailed coverage of the commercial banking system and the
role in the system of the NCB's selected to participate in the proposed
project.



-22-
is available, or Rs 20 million when funding is required. Lending over and above
these limits must be sanctioned by the Executive Credit Committee, which is
chaired by the president of the bank. All textile loans, loans to the public
sector and major loans to customers overseas are decided by the Executive Board.
Both committees normalLy meet twice weekly and decisions are fairLy rapid.
Applications for medium and long term loans are handled in the Syndicated Loan
Division (SLD) of HBL. Such loans are limited by amount to not, more than 20Z of
the paid-up capital and general reserves of the bank, as stipulated in the offi-
cial credit regulations for comercial banks, established by the PBC. The SLD is
supervised by a Senior Executive Vice President, who is also a Member of the
Executive Board of the Bank. The SLD is headed by an experienced banker and well
staffed. In addition to direct lending, SLD is also responsible for handling
consortium proposals prepared by the development banks.  HEBL has built up its term
lending capability and its Industrial Credit Division (ICD) is well-staffed for
;I       handling its present project finance activities in a systematic manner.  HBL's --
management plans to centralize all large-scale industrial term lending including
suppliers' credit in the SLD but to keep SSI operations separate from the SLD but
coordinating the SSI dctivities through the same board member.  This is sound
strategy which should be fully supported.  Although HEL appears centralized, th-e
is significant delegation of authority to the regional and branch level managers
to enable them to provide good services to their customers. Project supervision
review shows that HBL's internal credit procedures, i*.e., fihancial evaluation,
supervision, inspection, auditing are satisfactory even bj American standards.
Overall, HEBL is very well managed.
6.04    Operations.  Since 190 HBL's deposits have increased from Rs 28 billion
to Rs 62 billion in FY84, or by 120Z. Advances have shown a simiLar rate of
growth increasing from Rs 16 billion in FY80 to Is 36 billion in FY84, or by 125%,
part of which was in the form of increased medium- and long-term project
financing. HBL was an active participant in the first IIC project and, as of
June 30, 1985, had committed US$26.3 million in 12 projects. Except for two
projects, implementation is proceeding well.
6.05    Financial Aspects.  HBL has performed well since 1980.  Total assets have
increased at an annual compounded rate of 22.0Z, deposits by 22.5%, and net
profits after tax by 32.9Z. With the profit growth return on equity has been
satisfactory ranging from 15% to 24Z. Given SBP's policy of requiring 35X reserve
requirements in low yieLding assets and credit allocation to priority sectors at
lower interest rates return on assets (ROA) has also been satisfactory at an
annual average rate of about 0.4% p.a. Prior to 1981, all NCBs were required to
remit net profit after tax to the Government. However, this policy was changed in
1981 to allow the NCBs to improve their capital deposit ratios. Consequently,
HBL's retained earnings increased significantly in 1982 and the tempo has been
maintained. There is also notable improvement in efficiency as increased assets
were achieved without substantial increase in staff.
6.06    Future Prospects and Diversification.  Given the projected growth in the
economy, HBL is expected to maintain its satisfactory level of operations.
However, to complement its activities in medium- and long-term financing there are



-23-
a number of measures which could be taken by HBL including; greater use of equity
funding for bridge financing; use of SP8 suppLiers' credits and project
identification/feasibility studies by external consultants. Appropriate implemen-
cation of these measures would be discussed with HBL during negotiations.
Muslim Commercial Bank Limited (MCB)
6.07    Background.  KCB was zet up in Calcutta in 1947 as a private bank; and
upon the Partition of India and Pakistan in the same year. moved to Chitcagong in
East Pakistan. Later, in 1955 the headquarters moved to Karachi. Under the
leadership of the Adamjee business group the bank expanded profitably, becoming
the third most important private bank in the country. In 1974, under the Banks'
Nationalization Act, Premier Bank, a smaller institution, was merged into MCB.
Today, MCB continues to be an important element among the country's financial
institutions.
6.08    Organization, Management and Staffing.  NCB has a relatively decentralized
organizational structure.  The chief executive officer is the President, who-is
assisted by the four members of the Execucive Board who have specific management
responsibilities; one in-the area of commercial operations and SBP relationships,
another in the area of agricultural lending and overall business promotion, a
third in overseas operations and industrial lending operations, and the fourth on
administration and personnel. In addition, all four have supervising respon-
sibilities over a specified number of branches and districts.
6.09    Until 1984 MCB depended on the consortium leader's recommendations for the
projects in which it participated. It now has a well organize4 Industrial Credit
Division (ICD) consisting of appraisal, disbursement and end-use units, plus a
cell for small industry. The division has 15 professionals of which 8 have been
transferred from other departments while 7 have been recruited from industry or
graduate school programs. In addition, the Lahore regional office has two
officers in charge of project finance. Recently, an experienced professional with
several years of experience as a consultant, corporate manager and development
banker has been recruited to head che division. The division has data processing
capability for its operations, with access to MCB's computer center and a computer
specialist in the Division.
6.10    The ICD as currently organized is well-equipped to participate in the
Second IIC Project. It has developed sound strategy and policy statements as well
as procurement procedures for its operations. These documents will need to be
approved by MCB's Board. It also is developing internal procedures for processing
project proposals, presenting appraisal reports, coordination with other Bank
divisions, and supervision by senior management. To process project financing
applications the ICD has trained 10 of its officers in project finance techniques
and procedures, principally at the DBI. This type of training is scheduled to
continue, with particular emphasis on end-use applications. However, it will be
worthwhile to expand the program to training and practical exposure at overseas
locations as well. With more project financing ICD staff will gain experience in
projects that are financed.



-24-
6.11    Operations.  Since 1980 MCB's deposits have grown from Rs 10 billion to
Rs 17 billion in 1984 or by 70Z. This has provided an expanded resource base for
the increasing level of advances which have grown from Rs 6.5 billion in 1980 to
Rs 11.2 billion in 1984. Most of the advances have been for working capital/trade
credit although medium- and Long-term financing bas increased as an area of opera-
tions and now accounts for 5X of MC8's total portfolio. So far, MCB's term lend-
ing has been through consortia financing with MCB acting as the Lead bank in a few
cases where projects involved balancing, modernization. or equiRment replacement.
schemes. MCB's industrial term lending commitments have expanded from
Rs 146 million in 1982, to Rs 198 million in 1983, and Rs 349 miLlion in 1984, an
increase of 13OZ. Cement, hotel, and sugar projects account for about 50Z of
outstanding loans, totall-ing Rs 500 milLion as of December 31, 1984. A potential
pipeline of about US$30 million has been developed and these couLd rapidly
materialize into formal project finance proposals if foreign exchange term funds
are made available to MCB under the Second IIC Project.
6.12    The ICD has taken over the ieview of consortium proposals for rupee term
financing of industrial projacts. MCB participates in these operations in a
proportion of 15Z of total rupee financing.  In addition, NCR has begun direct
term financing operations and in 1985 sanctioned eight projects involving-total
assistance above Rs 40 million. These operations have provided valuable practical
appraisal experience to MCB's officers. As expertise in this area develops, ICD
will need to concentrate on supervision and develop expert cipabilities in this
respect rather rapidly. Outside assistance for this purpose may be required
sometime within the next two years.
6.13    Financial Aspects.  Since 1980 NCB's net profit afeter tax has increased
from Rs 22 million (FY80) to Rs 89 million (FY84) or by an anuiual average of B0Z.
Total assets have increased from Rs 14 billion in FY80 to Rs 23 billion in FY84 or
by an annual average of 14%. ROA has moved in parallel with profit growth
increasing from 0.2% in FY80 to 0.42 in FY84. Return on equity (ROE) has been
less stable with ROE fluctuating from 20.5Z in FY80, to 11.81 in FY82, to 17.8Z in
FY84. Although erratic the overall ROE is satisfactory.
6.14    Prospects.  MC8 anticipates a continuation of its satisfactory operating
performance with an increasing volume of medium- and long-term financing. A
potential pipeline of industrial projects has been developed at the level of NCR's
top management.  This pipeline of about US$30 million could rapidly materialize
into formal project finance proposals if foreign exchange term funds are made
available to MCB under the Second IIC Project.
United Bank Ltd. (UBL)
6.15    Background. UBL was set up as a private bank in 1959 and expanded rapidly
during the sixties to become the second largest private bank in Pakistan. It was
well-managed and had a cadre of highly qualified professional staff. However,
following the nationaLization of commercial banks in 1974, a number of its
managers, including its president resigned. The situation was further exAcerbated
by the demand for experienced bank officers in the Middle East. As a result of
the changes in top management and loss of experienced staff, UBL's performance
fluctuated. In 1981, GOP appointed Mr. T. Hussain, a senior career banker at



-25-
Habib Bank Ltd., as UBL's President. Under his leadership, UBL has performed very
well and UBL is now rated as the 451st largest bank in the world based an the size
of its deposits. UBL has also closed over 100 unprofitable branches, while
retaining complete geographical coverage of the country (1,592 branches), and a
strong presence abroad (31 branches and 4 subsidiary or affiliated banks).
6.16    Organization. Management and Staffing.  UBL is a very decentralized
institution, refLecting the style of its founder. Top management,relies on a
comprehensive management information system to control the bank's operations.  It
also retains auchority over the larger credit decisions. An Executive Credit
Committee approves alL loans above Rs 40 million, while branch, zone, and regional
managers have varying degrees of delegated authority. The President and Executive
Members of the Board provide additional control over a decentralized structure
through their day-to-day contact with operations in their respective areas of
responsibility, involving repeated travel through the country.
6.17    UBL became eligible to participate in the first IIC project in November
1984, after signing a subsidiary loan agreement with GOP. Previously, it had been
included as a participadt for technical assistance to upgrade its term lending
capability. In line with this objective, UBL established an Industrial Credit
Division to review consortium proposals and prepare projects for future participa-
tion in the IIC project. This division is presently staffed with 14
professionals, who have been recruited from within and outside UBL. At least
eight officers have received training at the DBI and/or courses organized by PBC
while others have gained industrial term-lending experience in other institutions.
As a result of these efforts appra.isal and end-use standards have improved con-
siderably and qualify UBL for participation in the project. A proposal to send
staff for overseas training has also been approved under the first IIC project and
is expected to be implemented in 1986.
6.18    Operations.  As with other NCBs, UBL's operations are concentrated on
short-term loans, seasonal advances and foreign trade financing. Medium- and
Long-term industrial financing which accounts for about 6X of UBL's operations are
usually carried out through participation in consortium financing arranged by the
DFIs. UBL's growth from 1980 to 1984 has been consistent, deposits have increased
from Rs 21 billion (FY80) to Rs 45 billion (FY84) or an annual average growth of
23Z p.a.  Advances have also increased steadily from Rs 14 billion (FY80) to Rs 26
biLlion (FY84) or at about 20% p.a. As of December 31, 1984, industrial term
loans disbursed were Rs 418 million, a 175Z increase over disbursements of Rs 152
miLlion in 1981. At present, UBL's portfolio of private sector industrial invest-
ment loans is about Rs 1.1 million, with textile, chemical, hotel and cement
sector loans accounting for about 50% of outstandings.
6.19    Financial Aspects.  With the closure of unprofitable units during 1982,
UBL's profits have increased significantly rising from Rs 17 million in FY80 to
Rs 35 million in FY82 to Rs 338 million in FY84. This has given a ROE of 30Z
which is satisfactory. In turn the increased profitability has resulted in a
higher ROA which increased from 0.06Z in FY80, to about 0.6Z in FY84 on total
assets of Rs 60 billion.



-26-
B. Part;cipating DFIs
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) 1/
6.20    Background (1961-1980).  IDBP was established in August 1961, to finance
small- and medium- sized enterprises through the reorganization of the Pakistan
IndustriaL Finance Corporation (PIFCO). In 1969, 'it was 581 owned by the
Government and Government institutions, and 42Z by private institutional and
individual investors.  In 1974, the private shareholdings were taken over by GOP
under the bank nationalization. The private sharehoLders received interest-
bearing compensation bonas based on estimated break-up value. IDBP's initial
share capital of Rs 20 million was increased to Rs 50 million in 1970 and in FY81
was doubled to Rs lQ0 million with GOP owning 90% directly, and the remainder
being held by the four provincial governments and various government-owned
institutions.
6.21    ALthough initially profitable and financially sound, IDBP's overall posi-
tion deteriorated significantly during 1970-1980 due to the costs of relocating -
from East Pakistan, the loss of assets in Bangladesh, the devaluat'ion of the rupee
in 1972, and the default on repayment by subborrowers. Additionally, the sig-
nificant downturn in economic activity particularly in the textile sector, which
accounted for about 50Z of IDBP's portfolio added to IDBP's financial distress.
Despite action by GOP and IDBP to improve IDBP's operations, the political and
economic uncertainties which continued until 1979 negated any real improvements.
This situation was exacerbated by the loss of many experienced staff to the Kiddle
East and an acute shortage of engineers and financial analysts for project
appraisal/monitoring. By 1980 IDBP was considered uncreditworthy. Under
Cr. 1186-PAK and the first IIC, a series of measures to address major
environmental, policy and procedural issues affecting IDBP's operations were
initiated by GOP/IDBP. Progress has been satisfactory but further efforts are
needed to ensure that the improvements achieved are sustained.
6.22    Institutional Aspects.  IDBP's Board of Directors consists of eight
members, including the Managing Director of IDBP who is also Chairman of the
Board.  All members of the current Board apart from the Managing Director and
BEL's representative who are experienced development bankers, are high-ranking
Government officials responsible for setting government industrial policy. The
operations of IDBP's head office and four regionaL branches are presently grouped
into three functional areas: Operations, End-Use and Planning. Each headed by a
Deputy Managing Director reporting to the Managing Director (Mr. Bashir Ahmad).
The regional offices process and sanction loan applications of up to Rs 1.25
million and process loan applications for Rs 1.25 million to Rs 2.5 million for
sanctioning at the head office. Considerable end-use activities are carried out
1/ A detailed analysis of IDBP's operations from 1981-1985 is available on the
Project File. See also Annex 5 and SAR Report No. 4637-PAK dated December 30,
1983.



-27-
by the regional offices where about 702 of the staff is Located. To support its
operations, IDBP has a staff of about 800, with recent recruitment restricted to
professionals with experience in commercial banking, large-scale project appraisal
and computer systems applications. To prepare staff for planned diversification
of activities IDBP has developed a well balanced program of internal and external
training which will be discussed and agreed during negotiations. With diver-
sification of IDBP's operations there is a need to review IDBP's present organiza-
tion and staffing structure.  TA funding for such a review would be made available
under IIC I. Given the significant expansion of IDBP's operations, there is a
need for the continued presence of a competent Chief Executive to administer its
operations. GOP agrees with this need and has given assurances that any appointee
to the position of Chief Executive would have qualifications and experience
appropriate for the position.
6.23    Strategy, Policy and Procedures.  Earlier this year, IDBP revised its
Strategy Statement to focus an diversification, emphasis on priority subsectors,
increased resource mobilization, and arrears recovery. Its policy statement was
also modified to highlight financial objectives related to the revised strategy.
These objectives which include ROE, ROA, DSCR and D:E ratios will be discussed and
agreed during negotiations.  As part of its present and previous strategy, IDBP
utilized technical assistance to improve the scope and quality of its appraisals
which now include calculations of internal financial and economic rates of return
and domestic resource cost ratios. It has also carried out a number of subsector
studies and prepared project profiles as aids to portfolio diversification and
lending expansion. IDBP's appraisal standards are satisfactory although still in
need of strengthening, given the increasing complexity of.subproject proposals.
To monitor project implementation, IDBP has developed an integrated system of site
visits and project reporting which gives an up-to-date picture of project
progress. To achieve better arrears control, IDBP proposes to reorganize its
end-use operations to give greater emphasis to project implementation and opera-
tional monitoring. Problem projects, rescheduling proposals and litigation
activities are concentrated at IDBP's head office.
6.24    Operational Performance and Impact.  Since its inception, IDBP has mobi-
lized about US$0.5 billion in foreign exchange mainly from bilateral credits and
borrowings from ADB, and the Bank Group.  About Es 0.6 billion in rupee resources
have been provided by the SBP. Since FY80 loans to new projects have averaged
about 75% of approvals while BHRE projects accounted for about 25%. Thirty-four
percent of approvals have been above Rs 20 million while 9Z have been below Rs
1.25 million. The sectoral distribution which had been biased heavily towards
cotton and the textile sectors has shifted towards greater diversification in
accordance with IDBP's strategy statement and the priorities agreed under the
first IIC project. During FY84 IDBP sanctioned loans of Rs 1.1 billion (more than
double that of FY83) with about US$35 million in foreign currency. During FY85
the same level of approvals was achieved. Loan commitments and disbursement3 have
also improved considerably rising from Rs 374 million in FY83 to Rs 423 million in
FY84 and Rs 540 million equivalent in FY85. In line with GOP policies, IDBP has
directed lending operations to the less developed provinces; 46Z of total
approvals were for projects in Punjab Province, 31Z in Sind Province, 12Z in
Northwest Frontier Province (NWFP) and 8% in Baluchistan Province. While this
pattern is consistent with population distribution, IDBP plans to expand its



-28-
lending operations in NWFP and Baluchistan. Since the mid-1970s, IDBP has played
a positive role in the development of small- antd medium-scale industry (SSI),
although more recently in line with the changes in the financial sector, whereby a
large part of SSI requirements are financed by the NCBs through IDA credits, it
has tended to concentrate more of its lending operations on medium- to large-scale
capital intensive projects. From FY82 to FY84, IDBP's completed projects gener-
ated about 4,800 new jobs, at an average cost per-job of Rs 260000, and earnedl
saved gross foreign exchange of about Rs 53 million.
6.25    Financial Performance.  Although IDBP's financial position has improved
due to GOP's arrears recovery program, which included credit curtailment,
rescheduling, investment sanctioning, it is still suspect and will require careful
monitoring. Particular care will be needed to ensure that the level of collec-
tions on arrears is considerabLy improved (particularly collections of current
dues). As a result of the GOP arrears recovery program, IDBP's total arrears
(principai and interest) have fallen from Rs 1.8 billion (FY81) to Rs 0.9 billion
(FY85) or by 50Z, and arrears as a percentage of the portfolio have fallen from
46Z (FY81) to 21X (FYg5). Recoveries of loans disbursed after FY80 were 66Z
(FY84) and 63% (FY85). While this is an improvement over past collection
performance, collections on current dues must increase to 75Z to contain any
increase in the overall level of arrears and to maintain the DSCR of at least 1.1
which is necessary if IDBP is to break even on its operations and remain finan-
cially viable. Since FY81, IDBP's profitability has improved, with net profits
after tax increasing from Rs. 5 million (FY81) to Rs. 45 million (FY85).- During
FY81-FY85 total assets increased from Rs. 2.1 billion to Rs. 4.3 billion, an
annual average growth of 20X p.a. in nominal terms.  With the improved
profitability, ROE increased from 3Z (FY81) to 162 (FY85), while IDBP's
debt:equity ratio dropped from 5.6 to 4.2, within the prescribed limit of 5:1.
IDBP's DSCR is presently 1.2, which is satisfactory.
6.26    Prospects.  The general business prospects in Pakistan are likely to be
good due to the continued improvement in the investment climate and GOP's policy
of providing incentives to promote private industrial investment. Over the last
three years IDBP has improved its operations and with determined efforts, should
be able to perform even better over the next two to three years. Barring any
major political upheavals and economic downturns, IDBP's prospects are
satisfactory, particularly as its present strategy provides Ear further diver-
sification of operations including:  underwriting of new public issue of shares,-
intensifying deposit mobilization; providing export-import and leasing finance;
and issuing of TFCs. To streamline its operations and increase efficiency, IDBP
will install in-house computers for operational monitoring and control. Based on
its present pipeline of projects and contributions from new activities, lending
operations are projected to increase from Rs. 1.4 billion (FY86) to Rs. 2.7 bil-
lion (FY90).
6.27    Because of GOP's measures (para. 4.03), projected increases in activities,
and anticipated improvement in recoveries, IDBP's net profit is projected to grow
from Rs. 45 million (FY85) to Rs. 70 million (FY87) and then decline to
Rs. 55 million (FY88), when interest rate subsidies are expected to be withdrawn,



.
-29-
and to recover to Rs. 82 million (FY90) when the impact of higher levels of opera-
tion would be felt. Net profit as a percentage of networth is projected to reach
18Z in FY87 and to average about 13% thereafter. With higher operating volume and
increase in loan portfolio, administrative expenses as a percentage of total
assets are expected to decline to 1.0 in FY90. IDBP's total assets are projected
to grow at an annual rate of 20Z from Rs. 4.3 billion (FY85) to Rs. 11 billion
(FY90), with 20Z of the projected growth expected to come from wqrking capital
loans. If IDBP can implement its stated strategy, its working caDital Loan port-
foLio will account for a substantial portion of its total portfolio. which wilL be
a healthy mix enabling it co carry our its developmental activicies and remain
financially sound. The expansion will be financed largely by an increase in
foreign currency borrowings, deposits, retained earnings and TFC issues. However,
to maintain its liquidity position, IDBP will need to collect at least 75Z of the
amount falling due on all new loans, i.e., loans made from FY81 onward and also
achieve significant collection rates on pre-FY81 loans. IDBP will thus have to
pay much closer attention to recent new loans, which are the direct responsibility
of the present management. Total arrears in nominal terms would decline if the
cash collection of current amount falling due reaches 75%.  Based on the assump-
tion that IDBP can meet its recovery targets, the DSCR would remain around 1.1,
which will enable IDUP to remain eligible for participation under the proposed
project. Debt:equity ratio would not exceed 5:1 throughout the period.
NationaL Development Finance Corporation tNDFC) 1/
6.28    Background.  NDFC was established by GOP in January 1973, as a wholly
owned government financial institution to provide financial and technical assis-
tance to public sector industrial enterprises. As GOP's industrial policy shifted
in favor of private sector undertakings, NDFC was authorized to finance private
sector ventures with some restrictions. Subsequently, in January 1983 GOP allowed
NDFC to finance the private sector without any limitation. NDFC also received
permission to set up financial subsidiaries and has since established two
subsidiaries: National Development Leasing Corporation (NDLC) and the Regional
Development Finance Corporation (RDFC).
6.29    With an initial authorized and paid up capital of Rs 100 million NDFC
quickly expanded and developed into a "mixed bank," raising deposits and borrowing
from international multilateral and bilateral sources as well as from the SBP.
With the availability of blended funds, NDFC acquired a mixed portfolio, following.
a prudent practice of maturity matching. Aside from flexibility in lending, and
funding; NDFC benefited from an exemption of reserve requirements and interest
rate ceilings imposed on commercial banks in Pakistan.  Although NDFC operates on
a self-imposed reserve ratio of 25Z, with tax exemption and retention of most of
its profit, it has built up a strong capital base. During 1981-1983, NDFC raised
1/ A detailed analysis of NDFC's operations during 1980-1985 (YTD) is held in
the Project File. See also Annex 6.



-30-
Rs 200 million in long-term resources by issuing bonds eligible for reserve
requirements to the commercial banks.
6.30    WhiLe NDFC falls under the general supervision of the Ministry of Finance,
it has considerable operating autonomy under its Board of Directors which meets
regularly to establish NDFC's overall policies and approve all direct lending
proposals above Rs 5 million.  Mr. Zafar lqbaL is Chairman and Chief Executire
Officer. The other five members of the GOP appointed Board repr'esent the SBP, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Production, Bankers' Equity Ltd. and the
Investment Corporation of Pakistan.
6.31    NDFC's organization and staffing structure presently reflects significant
changes made over the past two years to keep pace with the expansion in the volume
and range of the Corporation's activities.  NDFC has appointed a Managing Director
with day-to-day responsibility for direct project operations reducing from 12 to 7
(including the Chief Executives of three subsidiaries) the number of executives
reporting directly to the Chairman. However, the Managing Director has no banking
experience, and wiLL need considerable suppott from senior managers to be
effective. Thus, for the time being the Chairman continues to be responsible for
all major banking and administrative decisions.  Since NDFC is now going through a
consolidation period, it is important that it is managed by a professional and
experienced banker. GOP supports this view and has given assurances that, as
presently, any appointee to the position of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
would have the quaLifications and experience appropriate for the position. Total
staff have increased from 300 (FY83) to 528, of which 238 were professionals and
290 were support staff, while the number of SVP positions has expanded from 11 in
FY82 to 15 in 1985, with only one of the additional positions-being in the opera-
tional units. This expansion includes some inappropriate changes resulting in a
duplication of effort or responsibilities, particularly by Pakistan Consulting
Services (PCS) whose services overlap with those of the Economics and Marketing
Departments. Some of these weaknesses are temporary, as a number of units are new
or have been entrusted with enlarged responsibilities only recently.
Nevertheless, this is an important area for senior management's attention and some
degree of decentralization and a more systematic approach to assigning respon-
sibilities and accountability should be considered. At present PCS accounts for
about 8Z of NDFC's administrative budget, but has yet to contribute significantly
-        to NDFC's profits.  As part of the review of NDFC's strategy, the future role of
PCS would be discussed and agreed.
6.32    Strategy Policies and Procedures.  NDFC's PoLicy Statement, approved by
its Board in January 1981, established clear guidelines for direct project
financing, financial exposure limits and other appropriate financial policies. To
supplement the policy statement, NDFC has prepared a detailed Corporate Strategy
Statement for FY85-FY87 which sets out general objectives, sectoral priorities,
major operational plans and resource mobilization goals. The Strategy Statement
does not however specify financial objectives, i.e., return on equity, return on
assets, debt:equity ratio, debt service coverage ratio recovery targets and
specific targets for administrative expenses as a percentage of the average loan
portfolio. During appraisal of the second IIC project, modifications to the
statement were discussed with NDFC, with respect to operational objectives, profit



-31-
margins, and expenditures and adoption of a revised Strategy Statement by NDFC's
Board would be a condition for NDFC's participation in the project. Subsequent
changes in the Policy Statement or Strategy Statement would require prior consult-
ation with the Bank and in the case of the Policy Statement, the Bank's prior
approval. In addition, NDFC will need to implement an action program to contain
the growth of personnel, rationalize its service functions, correct some organiza-
tional flaws, and reduce expenditures relative to the volume of operations.
6.33    In the initiaL period of its operations, NDFC placed considerable emphasis
upon the preparation of appraisals of high quality, providing adequate coverage of
technical, market and financial aspects although recently there has been some
general reduction in appraisal quality. For projects receiving direct assistance,
NDFC calculates the internal financial and economic rates of return, debt servic-
ing ratio and DRC ratio. While most projects have substantially higher economic
rates of return, 15% is used as a normal minimum cut-off point.  Supervision
responsibility for short-term working capital loans has been decentralized to
NDFC's branches, while supervision of long-term loans is carried out by head
office staff with prior-ity given to projects which are behind schedule or operat-
ing below the expected leveL of performance.  Projects which have been operational
for three years are subject to a detailed analysis to verify economic and other
benefits vis-a-vis the appraisal data. With respect to short-term working capital
Loans, there is a need for clear guidelines for the clearing of these accounts on
a seasonal basis or their partial renewal according to the characteristics of the
enterprise concerned so that they become self-liquidating operations against
stocks and/or receivables. NDFC's procurement procedures are generally sound and
conform to local commercial practice. Three competitive quotations are required
for both domestic and foreign procurement. To comply with requirements of the
first and second IIC projects, NDFC has prepared detailed procurement guidelines
for Limited International Bidding and ICB for large projects. These are consis-
tent with the Bank's guidelines. NDFC's auditing and accounting procedures and
standards are also satisfactory. NDFC is introducing computer facilities to
strengthen its operations through the use of a Data Management System (DNS).
6.34    Operational Performance and Impact.  In FY81 and FY83, NDFC successfully
floated two long-term 10% bond issues of Rs 100 million which were quickly taken
up by commercial banks, because they were eligible for reserve requirements. MDFC
also generated short-term foreign currency resources for specific clients through
its correspondent banks, in connection with its import financing activities.
While these facilities were provided to clients rather than to NDFC itself, the
initiatives were taken by NDFC for which it received either a finder's fee or
management fee depending on its involvement. In 1983, NDFC's short-term deposits
expanded by more than 60%, while in FY84 growth was less than 10%. Term deposits,
on the other hand, have been relatively stable for the past three years. Within
this overall pattern, NDFC has actively developed different deposit schemes, some
with very satisfactory results. Bearer Deposit Certificates increased from
Rs 177 million in FY83 to Rs 639 million in FY84 and Rs 677 million as of
March 31, 1985. With its strong resource base during FY80-FY84, NDFC has approved
about Rs 12 billion in working capital and term loans to a wide range of
subsectors. Projects were well distributed by sector, with agro-based industries



-32-
accounting for 18Z, steel and engineering 17Z, energy 15Z, cement 13Z, automobiles
9Z, chemicals 8Z and other industries 20%. About 56Z of the projects approved
were in Sind, 39Z in the Punjab and 5% in Baluchistan and NWFP. Since its invol-
vement in private sector lending in FY82, NDFC has disbursed 107 loans totalling
Rs 2.2 million. Between FY82 and FY84 the level of annual disbursements increased
by 302, resulting in an increase in portfolio of practically 5O% during the same
period. The quality of this enlarged portfolio is satisfactory, with projects
financed having considerable developmental impact.
6.35    Financial Performance.   As of December 31, 1984, NDFC's assets totaLled
Rs 6.8 billion consisting of Loans (76Z), investments (9Z) and other assets (15Z).
These were financed by deposits (50Z), borrowings (34%), networth (11%) and cur-
rent liabilities (7Z). During FY8O-FY84, NDFC's assets increased at an average
annual rate of 27Z; loans at 28Z p.a. The growth was financed mainly by deposits
which grew from Rs 1.3 billion in FY80 to Rs 3.4 billion in FY84, or at 26% p.a.
NDFC's long-term debt:equity ratio ranged from 3.4-4.0 during the period and was
3.8 at the end of 1984 which was below NDFC's limit of 5:1. NDFC's profit
increased from Rs. 88.million (FY80) to Rs.-188 million (FY84), giving NDFC a ROE
averaging 23Z during the period, making it one of the more profitabLe DFIs
associated with the Bank Group. On an adjusted after tax basis, NDFC's average
ROE during the period was 11X p.a., which is satisfactory. NDFC has been able to
operate profitably and maintain its sound financial position by careful portfolio
management and by maintaining an average interest rate spread of about 3.0Z.
Although NDFC's end-use activities are sound and collections have consistently
exceeded 80% of amounts due, there has been a gradual increase in the level of
arrears and portfolio infection: Arrears now account for 72 of NDFC's total
portfolio and infected projects 21% of the portfolio. This i8s partially balanced
by a Rs 100 million provision for bad debts and a general policy of non-accrual of
interest on doubtful accounts. Nevertheless, arrears is an important area for
management's attention if NDFC is to avoid more significant levels of arrears and
infection of its portfolio. While NDFC's financial position is satisfactory,
planned growth and diversification of operations in recent years have increased
overheads and operating costs somewhat faster than revenues and assets. During
FY83-FY84, NDFC's total assets increased by 14%, while salaries increased by 63%
and other administrative expenses rose by 73%, which incr4:sed the administration
expense/average loan portfolio ratio from 0.7 (FY82) to 1.4 (FY84). The trend is
expected to continue for 1985 when administrative expenses are expected to rise by
25Z. Thereafter the ratio should decrease with growth of the portfolio.
6.36    Prospects.  NDFC's business prospects are satisfactory, assuming that the
overall investment climate remains favocable and it continues to be managed by
professional and experienced bankers. NDFC plans to increase its lending opera-
tions at an annual compounded rate of 20% with loan approvals projected to
increase from Rs 3.5 billion in FY8S to Rs 8.5 billion in FY89. Since investment
in public manufacturing sector is likely to 4ecline further, the bulk of the
growth is expected to come from the private sector. Nonetheless, the projected
real growth rate of about 12% is achievable given NDFC's past records and its
ability to provide complete financiaL services. In terms of business mix, the
share of term lending as a percentage of total loans is projected to increase from



-33-
38X in FY84 to 52Z in FY89. As the spread on term Loans is generally lover than
the working capital loans, NDFC's profit margin is likely to be squeezed. The
change in the mix appears to be due to the difficulty in mobilizing short-term
deposits and the availability of term resources both domestically from the SBP and
internationally. Foreign exchange lending is estimated to increase from Rs 452
million in FY84 to Rs 1.7 billion in FY89. Although this appears rather
optimistic, it is feasible given NDFC's strong pipeline of 70 projects requiring
foreign exchange loans of US$180 million.  NDFC plans to finance about 20Z of its
growth by increasing local currency deposits which are projected to increase from
Rs 3.4 billion in FY84 to Rs 6.1 billion by FY89, or at annual growth rate of 12Z,
which is below the past growth rate of 152. Foreign borrowings are projected to
increase sharply from Rs l billion in FY84 to Rs 4.6 billion by FY89. which
domestic currency borrowings mainly from the SB:' and bond issues, are projected to
increase by Rs 3.5 billion.  The remaining gap is expected to be financed by
profit. To meet its foreign currency requirement lending of US$160 million, NDFC
will borrow about US$50 million from -the second IIC project, US$75 million from
the second ADB Development Finance Loan and about US$35-US$40 million, from the
international commercial markets.             -
6.37    NDFC's total assets are projected to increase at an annual rate of 22Z
from Rs 6.8 billion in FY84 to Rs 18.4 billion at the end of FY89 with the loan -
portfolio increasing from Rs 5.2 billion in FY84 to Rs 15.6 billion in FY89. The
bulk of the growth is expected by borrowings overseas and locally. As NDFC is not
highly leveraged, the increase in debt will not result in sharp increase in
debt:equity ratio which is projected to increase from 3.7:1 in FY84 to 5:1 in
FY89, which is within the agreed limit. Total debt:equity ratio is projected to
increase to 8.8:1 by end FY89, which is acceptable. The quality of NDFC's port-
folio is expected to remain sound. Assuming that NDFC maintains a balance between
term loans and working capital loans, its profits after provision for losses are
projected to increase from Rs 148 million in FY84 to Rs 429 million in F789. The
return on equity is projected to remain well above 20S. Administrative expenses
are projected to decline from 1.4Z of the average loan portfolio in 1984 to 1.0 by
the end of 1988 assuming that NDFC vigorously implements agreed cost control
measures. Given careful monitoring of its portfolio and expansion of operations,
NDFC should remain a sound financial institution.
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC) 11
6.38    Background.  PICIC was established in 1957, with Bank Group assistance to
provide term finance, in local and foreign currencies, to private industry and to
play a key role in capital market development through direct purchase and under-
writing of shares and debentures. During the 1960s PICIC was well-managed and
became the major source of foreign exchange term finance for private industrial
1/ A detailed analysis of PICIC's operations during FY80-FY84 is held on the
Project File. See also Annex 7 and SAR Report No. 4637-PAK dated December 30,
1985.



-34-
investment in the cement, sugar, and textile sectors, which today are important
subsectors of Pakistan's economy. However, the 1970s proved to be an exception-
ally difficult period for PICIC. The separation of Bangladesh, the 1972 devalua-
tion of the rupee by 131Z and the nationalization of major private industries in
the first half of the decade, contributed to a drastic reduction in private
industrial investment and a generaL disruption of the economy. The worldwide
recessions affected Pakistan's textile export industry, which in the 1970s
accounted for more than 40X of PICIC's portfolio. Consequentl;, by 1980, PICIC
was faced with serious portfolio and institutional problems. shared also by IDBP.
To address these issues GOP introduced a number of measures including: introduc-
tion of new senior management, establishment of the GOP Comittee for Sick Units,
World BankJADB Collection Review Meetings, and the passing of a Presidential
Ordinance on Foreign Exchange Risk. Subsequently the Bank Croup and ADB worked
closely with GOP and PICIC to bring these measures to fruition and since 1981,
PICIC has been able to reduce its arrears, substantially improve its liquidity
position, increase its business, and improve its financial condition while taking
additional measures to reorganize the institution to enable it to function effec-
tively in a more completitive financial envi7ronment.
6.39   Institutional Aspects.  PICIC's initial paid-in capitaL of Rs 20  million
was contributed by private institutions and individuals, many of them foreign
banks. The initial equity base was increased progressively to Rs. 109.9 million
as a result of stock dividends distributed in 1977, 1978, and 1981. At the end of
1984, the public sector shareholding acquired under the Bank nationalization in
1972 represented about 56Z of PICIC's shares and although PICIC is technically a
private institution, it is now very much a government institution.
6.40    PICIC's Board of Directors, including the Chairman and Managing Director,
consists of 15 Pakistan and 7 foreign directors. Of the Pakistan directors, one
represents the Federal Government, one the Provincial Governments on a rotational
basis, two the govarnment institutional shareholders (SLIC and MIT), and the rest
are prominent industrialists and businessmen. The size of the Board has often
resulted in awkward situations for the Managing Director, as administrative mat-
ters and organizational changes require full Board apprzral. Some Board members
have held their positions for more than 20 years, making their views prevalent
over other members. However, in some cases, this accumulated experience is also
resistant to change and innovation. Relations between Management and the Board
continue to be problematic due to the personalities invr.ved.  Ideally, a smaller
and more professional Board with a mandAte to operate P1_IC would be more
desirable.
6.41    From 1981 - 1983, PICIC's management focussed on the operational difficul-
ties of PICIC, addressing problems of operational standards and portfolio
infection. In 1984 PICIC reorganized its operations into three groups. Appraisal
functions, including Engineering and Economic Analysis were grouped under an
Executive Vice President. Portfolio recovery, Loan and Special Projects were
placed under a Senior Executive Vice President, and supporting functions such as
Accounting and Administration were grouped under another Senior Executive Vice
President. An experienced computer specialist was also hired to develop a much



-35-
needed management information system and put an automated accounting system into
operation and to coordinate the administrative and procedural changes that this
system will require. The LegaL Department is being reorganized to make more
effective PICIC's proceedings against defaulting debtors. WhiLe these measures
are steps in the right direction, much more needs to be done to equip PICIC to
survive in the competitive financial environment that is developing in Pakistan.
For this purpose, PICIC's Management proposes to utilise TA funds under IIC I to
engage consultants to carry out a Strategy Study. Terms of reference for the
consultants have been reviewed by IDA, and the selected consultants should start
work by March 1986, although commencement of the study has been set as a condition
of effectiveness for PICIC's Loan Agreement with GOP. As part of its proposed
diversification, PICIC is discussing with IFC the possibility of a line of equity
finAncing. Establishment of an equity financing function would be considered
under the proposed Strategy Study. Inasmuch as PICIC will need to address
operational, organizational and staffing issues very carefully in defining its
role in industrial finance, there is A need for the continued presence of an
experienced banker as PICIC's Managing Director. GOP concurs with the assessment
and has given assurances that any appointee to the position of Managing Director
would have the qualifications and experience appropriate for the position.
6.42    As of December 1984, PICIC employed 137 professional staff of which many
have been with PICIC for more than 10 years. While this could, point to a satis-
factory staffing situation, in terms of professional ezperience, it mostly
reflects the routine application of work patterns adopted many years back. This
is particularly true because of the no-growth situation of the late 1970s and
because of the specialized character of some departments. The proposed diversify-
ing operations would include a revision of exi-ting operations to make them more
effective and to reassign tasks where necessary. These changes should be
instituted under leadership provided by second and third tier managers, which
needs to be developed. As new systems are established, cianges at these levels -
may also be required which will test Management's ability to deal with PICIC's
fundamental problems. This should be complemented by a more systematic approach
to training of both staff and managers.
6.43    Operational Performance and Impact.  PICIC's operations have grown con-
siderably since FY80. Total approvals have increased from Rs 340 million (FY80)
to Rs 1.0 billion (FY84). This is due to the availability of foreign exchange
resources form the Bank and ADB, a more dynamic management, and buoyant investment
climate.  Additionally, during FY83-FY84, PICIC ventured successfully in the
inter-bank money market as a net borrower to partially address it lack of rupee
resources and to offer working capital financing to its clients. Resources raised
in this manner enabled PICIC to reduce SBP cash credits (which were provided for
liquidity support in the past) and build-up a Rs 617 million portfolio of sbort
ters loans as of December 31, 1984. In total PICIC has provided about
Rs 7.7 billion for over 800 industrial projects. About 12Z of this reflects
PICIC's catalytic function resulting in direct foreign loans and/or foreign
investment to Pakistani projects exclusive of its own loans. The textile sector
accounted for 34Z of total cumulative sanctions followed by food products 20Z,
cement and ceramics 15Z, engineering goods 10%, paper products 82 and miscel-



-36-
laneous sectors 13%. However, the importance of the textile sector has declined
substantially as new loans are made to the engineering, chemical and food process-
ing industries.
6.44    While PICIC's contributLon to industrial development has been creditable,
its role in industrial financing has lately been diminished mainly due to the
changes in the financiaL and industrial environment. Since 1980 the importance of
foreign exchange Einancing has been reduced because of increased availabili:y of
free foreign exchanges and the types and sources of financial services required by
industry have changed significantly.  As a result, PICIC's share of industrial
financing declined from about 20% in 1970 to about 3% in 1985. Since then, PICIC
has made renewed efforts to maintain its market share with some success. Under
the First IIC Project PICIC's performance was encouraging; it submitted
16 projects with foreign exchange requirement of about US$32.0 million, and total
investment requirement of about Rs 920 million. These projects were mostly in
non-traditional, high technology, and high value added industries. The quality of
these projects, in terms of appraisal, financial soundness and management
capability, is also perceptibly better than before.
6.45    Financial Performance.  PICIC's financial performance during FY8O-FY84 was
satisfactory and its financial position has improved from the low point of the
1970s and early 1980s although the quality of PICIC's portfolio still requires
careful monitoring. PICIC's low point in history was probably 1981, with collec-
tions of 35% of current dues, and arrears of Rs 1.5 billion, representing 67% of
the portfolio. However, with the strong support of GOP, the Bank and ADB and the
appointment of a more pragmatic'management, PICIC has improved on this situation;
by settling legal cases out of court and through the ruling of the Committee for
Sick Projects and credit squeeze through ECBs, PICIC's collection reached 73Z of
current dues in 1984. With this recovery and the restructuring and rescheduling
loans of Rs 0.5 billion in the past three years, arrears were reduced to
Rs 1.1 billion as of December 31, 1984, cr 35% of portfolio. In spite of this
improvement, its portfolio remains significantly affected by arrears which could
adversely affect coLlections for many years. Some of the recently restructured
projects could become problematic, particularly if the economy slows down and
working capital credit is tightened.  PICIC needs to take more determined steps to
address the arrears problem with the aim of leaving the arrears problem behind as
a thing of the past within the next two years. Collection efforts on overdue
accounts, particularly re-1980s, should be stepped up, targeting accounts fcr
recovery on a quarter:, basis and liquidation proceedings should be pursued
against unviable firms. To cover potential write-offs PICIC has provided Rs 227
million and has accrued about Rs 660 million of interest on overdue accounts.
With the improvement in collections, expanded operations and tighter operating
control, PICIC's net profits after tax have increased from Rs 38 million (FY80) to
Rs 62 (FY84) or by 10% p.a. Total assets have increased from Rs 2.4 billion
(FY80) to Rs 3.9 billion (FY84) and with the improved profitability ROA increased
irom 1.3% (FY80) to 1.7% (FY84) which is satisfactory. PICIC's return on equity
improved from 92 to 12Z (FY84) and dividend payments were restored with the result
that PICIC's share prices have increased from Rs 6 per share (FY80) to Rs 10 per
share or par (FY84). PICIC's DSCR of 1.2, and D:E ratio of 6:3 are satisfactory.



-37-
6.46    Prospects.  During FY8S - FY88 PICIC expects to stabilize its term lending
at Rs. 1.0 billion p.a. and to increase working capital loans Rs. 617 million in
FY84 to Rs. 2.0 billion in FY88 which is expected to enhance its profitability.
In terms of foreign exchange, PICIC plans to lend about US$60 million p.a. during
FY86 - FY87, meeting its requirements from the proposed project and the second ADS
loan for DFIs, to be processed in parallel with the second IIC project. With che
increased lending and a diversification of activities, P'CIC's financial results
and conditions are likely to improve further unless there is a dramatic downturn
in the economy. Total assets are projected to increase from Rs. 3.9 bilLion
(FY84) to Rs. 8.2 billion (FY88), an increase of 20% p.a. in nominal terms. The
Loan portfolio is projected. to increase from Rs. 2.9 billion (FY84) to
Rs. 6.3 billion (FY88) with net profit after tax projected tc increase Erom Rs 62
million (FY84) to Rs 147 million (FY88). Return on equity is estimated to
increase from 12.6Z in 1984 to 17.6Z in 1988. Administrative expenses are
projected to decline to 0.5% of average total assets in (FY88) reflecting tighter
cost control. Because of the ezpectedt improvement in earnings, PICIC's debt
service coverage ratio should remain well above 1.1, which is the threshold for
participation under the proposed project.  Degt:equity ratio is projected to
remain well below the agreed level of 7:1. However, PICIC's operations (and IDBP)
are sensitive to any significant changes in the credit environment and investment
demand, which could negate the improvements that have been achieved to date.
C. Conditions for Participation
6.47    During negotiations, understandings were reached with GIP and the PFIs on:
NCBs   IDBP   NDFC   PICIC
Appraisal/Supervision Staffing (AM)1/               x
Financial Covenants (AM)                                    x       x      x
Reporting Requirements (LA and AM)                  x        x      x      x
Procurement PoliciesiGuidelines (AM)                x
Policy Statement (LA and AM)                        x        x      x      x
Strategy Statement (LA and AM)                      x       x       x      x
Organizational Review/Strategy Study (LA and AM)             x             x
Training Programs FY86-FY88 (LA and AM)             x        x      x      x
Collection Targets FY86-FY88 (AN)                   x       x       x      x
Also during negotiations, GOP gave assurances that any appointees to the positions
of Chief Executive Officers of the DFIs would have the qualifications and
experience appropriate for the positions.
1/ Specific agreements and understandings are noted in the Loan Agreement (LA)
or the Agreed Minutes (AM), including Minutes of Technical Discussion).



-38-
6.48    Access to Loan Funds.  During negotiations agreement was reached with GOP
and the PFIs that effectiveness of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOP and
the PFIs and the PFIs' access to the Loan funds would depend upon compliance with
the following conditions:l/
ECBs   IDBP   NDFC   PICIC
Implementation of an Administrative
Expense Control Program
Commencement of Organization/Strategy Study                  s              x
Board Approval-Policy Statement                      x       x      x       x
Board Approval-Strategy Statqrent                    x       x      x       x
Board Approval-Collection Targets                            x      x       s
Commencement of Training Program                     x       x      x       x      --
Maintain Agreed Debt:Equity Ratio                            x       x      x
Maintain Debt Service Coverage Ratin                         x      x       x
Achievement of Collection Targets                    x       x       x      s
Establishment of Project Financing Departmefts 2/  x
Additionally, it was agreed that the eligibility of an institution to participate
in the project be withdrawn if within six months after the signing of the Loan
Agreement between GOP and the Bank Group, the PFI has not fulfilled its conditions
of participation and signed a subsidiary loan agreement with GOP (para. 6.49).
Also, continued access to the Second IIC funds would depend on each PFI continuing
to comply with their respective conditions of participation.
6.49    Conditions of Board Presentation and Loan Effectiveness.  Prior to Board
presentation, at least two eFIs, of which one shall be a DFI and one an NCB,
should have established their eligibility to participate in the project, by ful-
filling the conditions of participation set out in paragraph 6.48. Additionally,
signing of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank Group, by at least
two PFIs, of which one shall be a DFI and one an NCB, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Loan.
1/ Detailed in Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.
2/ For KCB and NBP access to the Loan funds depends upon the establishment of
Project Financing Departments with staffing and procedures acceptable to the
Bank.



-39-
VII. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Amounc and Allocation of Funds
7.01    The Loan.  The financial package for the proposed Project would consist of
a Bank Loan of US$148 million for project financing, and an IDA Credit of
US$2 million for technical assistance made available to GOP on standard Bank terms
and conditions. GOP would onlend the loan funds to the PFIs, with subsidiary loan
agreements with each institution. The technical assistance funds would be passed
to the PFIs as grants.
7.02    Subloan Size, Free Limits and Review.  Under the first IIC project, the
Bank Group agreed to an initiaL allocation of about 45Z of the project funds to.
the three DFIs. The balance of funds were placed in a pool of funds available to
all PFIs which subsequently met eLigibility criteria.  This formula was used to
encourage competition among PFIs; allow for the strengthening of each PFI without
adversely affecting the flow of investment funds to the private sector; and
safeguard the interest of the DFIs during this transitional period. -Given the
projected availability of resources from the Bank Group-and ADB, there is no
justification for making specific allocation to DFIs and funds would be made
available to PFIs on a first-come first-served basis. -Prior Bank review and
approval would be required for all DFI and Habib Bank subloans above US$2 million.
The aggregate of free limit subloans would not, however, exceed US$40 million of
the total project funds. There will be no free limit for UBL and MCB, and the
Bank will review all their subprojects. About 35Z by number and about 75Z by
amount of all subprojects would receive prior Bank review and approval. All
subproject proposals above the free limit would be required to include calcula-
tions of economic and financial rates of return and domestic resource cost ratios.
The cut-off for acceptance would be ERR of at least 15x. As noted above, the
proposed project will include special eligibility criteria for the DFIs to ensure
that they continue to carry out agreed action programs and make steady progress in
addressing their financial and organizational problems.
B. Financial Package
7.03    As noted in paragraph 5.07, the proposed loan of US$148 million would
finance part (25Z) of a total foreign exchange financing requirement of
US$600 million needed by the PFIs. ADS would provide 25Z (paragraph 7.04) while
the sponsors would provide a minimum of 22.5Z in equity financing, with the
balance provided by the PFIs. Any foreign exchange requirement not covered by the
Bank or ADB funds would be met from the foreign exchange pool of the SBP under
general open license 1/ or from resource mobilization by the NCBs with overseas
1/ For projects involving a total investment not exceeding Rs 60 million and
needing foreign exchange less than Rs 30 million, the investor can raise
foreign exchange directly from SBP under general license scheme.



-40-
branches.  The necessary local currency requirement,will be provided by the spon-
sors and the PFIs. In most cases IDBP and PICIC would co-finance their sub-
projects with the NCBs. Based on the existing pipeline of projects and the maxi-
mum and minimum size limits of US$6.0 million and US$500,000 respectively for
eligible subprojects, about 45 projects would be financed under the proposed
project. The loan funds are expected to be fully committed within 3 years of
Board approval of the Project (i.e. by December 31, 1988).
7.04    Co-Financing - ADB.  In December 1983 ADB, as co-financing with IDA's
first IIC, made a loan of US$110 million to BEL, NDFC and PICIC together with an
equity line of US$2 million to BEL. The Loan is expected to be fully comitted by
December 1985. ADB is presently processing a US$150 million line of credit for
industrial financing and expects to submit the loan for Board approval in early
1986. The Bank and ADB are working closely together to ensure a consistent
approach to the conditionality being proposed for the common participating finan-
cial institutions and for financial poLicy reform.
Onlending Terms                             -
7.05    Project funds will be onlent by PFIs at 14Z p.a. which, given inflation of
about 6Z to 7% in FY85, is substantially positive in real terms. The proposed
onlending rate is consistent with both the opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan
and market lending rntes of 14% - 15Z (para. 3.11). .Inflation rates are expected
to remain below 10X over the commitment period of the loan. However, to prevent
the onlending rate from becoming negative in the event of accelerated inflation,
agreement was reached during negotiations that onlending rates would be reviewed
periodically with GOP and that GOP would take corrective measures to ensure that
onlending rates remain mutually satisfactory to the Bank and GOP. The first
review would take place six months after effectiveness ani annually thereafter,
with appropriate adjustment of the onLending rates to reflect (a) the trend of
inflation and the need to ensure that the lending rates remain positive in real
terms; (b) prevailing borrowing and lending rates in Pakistan; (c) the adequacy of
the spread for (i) the Government to cover the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks and (ii) the PFIs to cover their costs in making the subloans; and (d) the
rate of commitment and disbursement of subloans. The proposed loan would be lent
to GOP which would onlend to IDBP and PICIC at fixed spreads of 4Z, and 3% to
other PFIs.  As under the first IIC project, the higher spread is proposed for
IDBP and PICIC since they are subject to income tax. Under the proposed project,
GOP would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.  This policy approach
was adopted in 1980 when GOP decided to bear the exchange risk for all foreign
credit which it onlends to intermediary financial institutions. Given that there
are strict foreign exchange controls and no long-term forward market to cover
exchange risks, it is not feasible to pass on the foreign exchange risk to PFIs or
final borrowers.
7.06    Beneficiaries.  Although the proposed '.IC Project is aimed at financing
private sector projects, NDFC is involved in public sector financing, and wishes
to have some flexibility in financing projects or public sector enterprises.
Thus, during negotiations it was agreed that NDFC would be allowed to submit



-41-
public sector projects up to a total of US$10 million, for financing BMR projects,
although no specific allocation would be shown in the Loan Agreement. All
industrial subsectors will be eligible for financing under the project, except for
the sugar industry where only BMR and expansion of by-product processing of
existing, profitable mills will be considered. Sectoral distribution of sub-
projects is expected to follow the pattern established under the First IrC Project
(para. 4.05) with less emphasis upon textiles and food processing industries.
7.07    Amortization Schedule.  The proposed loan will be made to GOP on standard
Bank Group terms and conditions - presently an- interest rate of 8.82X and a
20-year repayment for the IBRD Loan. Although considerable progress has been made
under the First IIC Project in permitting the DFIs to mobilise local currency
resources, they have yet to achieve self sufficiency in this area and be graduated
from supplementary assistance from GOP and the SBP. IDBP's and PICIC's rupee
resources are currently restricted to refinancing credit lines to cover purchases
of locally fabricated machinery, although during the period of the Project, both
DFIs propose to fund their operations, in part, by (i) diversifying into deposit
operations; (ii) securing suppliers' credits from the SBP; (iii) issuing subor-
dinated debentures; and (iv) retaining earnings. While these sources would meet a
large part of their needs, there would still be-x considerable funding gap which
an extended amortization schedule would help bridge. Unlike IDBP and PICIC, NDFC
has successfully mobilized considerable local currency resources through deposits
and debenture issues. To meet its lending targets for-FY86 - FY90, NDFC expects
to raise resources by increasing local currency deposits, issuing debentures, and
obtaining SBP credit lines. However, the amounts to be mobilized will not cover
NDFC's requirements, although the resource gap is proportionately less than for
IDBP and PICIC. To augment the local currency resources of the L. s, it is recom-
mended that as under the first IIC project, GOP onlentd the funds to the DFIs for a
period of 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years. The DFIs would onlend
the funds to industrial projects based on their cash flow requirements. However,
the maximum maturity normally will be limited to 10 years including the grace
period, which would provide a rollover of funds to augment the local currency
resources of the DFIs and enable them to provide working capital finance to their
clients. Since NCBs do not need local currency, they would repay GOP on the basis
of a composite aortization schedule of subloans.
C. Administration
7.08    Procurement.  The procurement procedures of the PFrs are satisfactory.
As under the first IIC project, Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures 1/
wouLd be required for individual contracts for equipment and civil works above
US$2 million. Project sponsors would be required to advertise the procurement in
1/ Section 3.2 of IBRD's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits."



-42-
the local press and seek bids from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to
assure competitive prices. Sponsors would be required to notify embassies and
trade representatives of Bank Group member countries and Switzerland represented
in Pakistan; however, they would not be required to advertise in international
publications. The PFIs would be required to confirm directly with the suppliers,
the validity of the lowest evaluated bid. For smaller contracts, PFIs would
employ their existing procurement procedures which generally conform to the Bank
Group's standard practices. In most cases, machinery and equipment would be
procured by obtaining at least three competitive quotations from established
sources. The PFIs would be expected to maintain records of the method of procure-
ment and to monitor utilization of subloans through regular supervision
activities. For technical assistance projects the PFIs would follow the Bank -
Group's guidelines for the selection of consultants.
7.09    Disbursement Procedures.  The estimated disbursement period is seven years
(Annex 8), although actual disbursement may be faster because of the large number
of institutions participating in the Project. The proceeds of the Loan would be
disbursed at the rate of 10OZ of the foreign exchange costs for machinery and
equipment of eligible subloans and 60X of local expenditures (corresponding to the
estimated average foreign exchange content of -these items). The proceeds of the
Credit would be disbursed at the rate of 10OZ. As in prior Bank Group loans and
credits to DFIs, full documentation of ezpenditures would be submit;:ed to the Bank
Group. For the technical assistance component, the loan proceeds would be dis-
bursed at the rate of 100% for consultants' services and overseas training.
7.10    Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  PFIs would be required to submit
quarterly progress reports acceptable to the Bank Group covering their operations
under the Project. Financial statements, submitted annually by the NCBs and the
DFIs, would be required to conform with the Bank Group standard reporting
requirements, with submission of audited financial statements, prepared by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
8.01    Benefits. The project would assist GOP in maintaining the growth of
private industrial investment, developing the capital market, and reorienting  -
development finance institutions from purely term lending activities to become
more dynamic financial intermediaries. If successful, the project would open nev
avenues for financing industrial investment by the private sector and release the
pressure on the banking system. IIC II also should be helpful in stimulating
private savings. The project would finance 40 to 45 subprojects creating about
30,000 new direct jobs at an average investment cost per job of about US$20,000.
The average IERR and IFRR of the subprojects to be financed under the project are
estimated at 15X - 20%. The proposed project would allov the Bank to continue its
assistance to GOP in addressing broader financial and banking sector issues and
providing institutional building assistance to commercial banks. Also, IFC will
be assisting GOP in strengthening the operations of the KSE and LSE, with TA
financing under IIC II.



-43-
8.02    Risks.  While the DFIs have considerable project appraisal experience, the
NCBs only recently have embarked on independent term lending operations based on
project viability rather than purely collateral considerations. Thus, there is a
risk that MCB and UBL will move slowly from collateral to appraisal-based lending
and that their participation in the project wiLl be limited, reducing the impact
of the rationalization of the term financing system. However, this risk should be
minimized, as both institutions have moved rapidly to estabLish effective term
lending policies, procedures and appraisal capabilities. For the DFIs success of
the action programs to continue the improvement in the operational and financial
viability of IDBP and PICIC will require strong commitment by GOP and their
managements.  This has been given and eviden,a indicates that GOP will translate
these comfitments into effective action.  If however, the actions taken do not
prove effective, there could be some weakening in the financial viability of these
institutions with subsequent delays in utilizing project funds.  The proposed
action programs, technical assistance and conditions of participation should
0---     minimize these risks.
8.03    A risk of the Lending component of the proposed Project is that an ade-
quate number of eligible subprojects might not materialize due to political uncer-
tainties and the absence of the continued improvements needed to support a strong
investment cLimace. GOP has taken a number of steps to remove controls inhibiting
industrial development; more needs to be done. If progress in liberalizing
industrial policy is slow, industrial investment will Also be constrained. This
is unlikely in view of COP's recent policy moves over the last three years, recent
important liberalizations in industrial and financial sector policies and
industrial policy reform measures currently being discussed in the context of
other proposed Bank Group operations. However, projects 'on hand and in the
pipelines of the PFIs indicate credit demand in excess of the amount proposed for
the Project and full comoitment of the US$148 million subloan component should
be achieved within the three years provided under the Projecte
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    During negotiations, understandings between the Bank Group and GOP were
reached on:
(a) contents of Statements of Strategy and Operating Policies
for PFIs (para. 6.47);
(b) collection ratios (para. 6.47);
(c) free limits and subproject reviews (para. 7.02);
(d) periodic review and appropriate adjustment of onlending rates
(paras. 7.05);
(e) onlending terms, conditions and spreads (para. 7.05);



46,-
(f) limit on financing public sector projects (para. 7.06); and
(g) procedures for procurement, disbursement reporting, accounting
and auditing (paras. 7.08-7.10).
9.02    It is recowAended that the eligibility of an institution to participate in
the Project be withdrawn if six months after signing of the Loa'n and Development;
Credit Agreements between GOP and the Bank Group, it has not fulfilled its condi-
tions of participation and signed a subsidiary Loan agreement with GOP
(para. 6.48).
9.03    It is recommended that, as a condition of Board Presentation, at least two
PFIs, including one NCB and one DPI, should have established their eligibility to
participate in the project by meeting all of the conditions of participation noted
in paragraph 6.48.
9.04    It is recommended that the signing bf a subsidiary loan agreement by at
least two PFIs, including one NCB and one DFI,, should be a condition of effective-
ness of the project (para. 6.49).
9.05    The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$150 million equivalent to GOP.



*                                                                                      ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Projected Private Industrial Investment (FY85-FY88)
A. Projected Investment
FY85      FY86    FY87    FY88    FY86-FY88
(actual)       -  (current Rs. billion)---
Investment in Medium- and
Large-scale IncAustries (MILSI) /a       6.1       7.3      8.7    10.5        26.5
B. Projected Financing (PFI Projects)
FY86-FY88
(US$ million)
Foreign            Local             Total
Total Requirement:                           600               650              1,250
Less Available Financing:
Sponsors /b                      -                295                295
Bilateral Sources                50                -                  50
DFIs                                              119                119
Commercial Banks /c              -                236                236
Existing Lines of Credit /d    125                                   125
175              650                825
Gap:                                         425                -                 425
To be Financed:
ADS                             150                                  150
IBRD                            150                -                 150
Conmercial borrowing (NDFC)      50                -                  50
GAP (GOP/NCBs)                   75                                   75
425               -                 425
/a  FY85 is based on YTD actuals and projected investment.  Thereafter nominal
growth of 20Z p.a. is assumed.
/b  Including non-repatriable foreign investment and internally generated funds.
T7 Direct term loans and tending through consortia by NCBs.
7- Existing lines of credit from ADS and IBRD to DFIs to be utilized by
December 31, 1985.
Exchange rate - US$1 = Rs 15.4
Source: Kission estimates.



-46-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INvESTKMENT cREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
The Commercial Banking System
Background
1.      Overview.  The financial system in Pakistan consists of:  (i) five nation-
alized commercial banks (NCBs); (ii) seventeen foreign commercial banks (FCBs);
(iii) four specialized commercial banks; (iv) nine development finance institu-
tions (DFIs); (v) several insurance companies; (vi) two Leasing companies; (vii)
two stock exchanges; and (viii) a housing finance corporacion.  The State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP), the central bank, directs and regulates the financial system
within overall policies set by GOP. The Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) oversees
and coordinates the activities of NCBs and fulfills many of the functions pre--
viously discharged by NCB shareholders. The Ministry of Finance monitors the -
operations of the other financial institutions.
2.      The commercial banking system in Pakistan predates the country's
independence. The oldest Pakistani bank was established in 1942 by the Habib
group of entrepreneurs. The Australasia Bank (now forming the Allied Bank) was
established in Lahore early in 1947. Most banking functions before the
Independence, however, were carried out by numerous branches of foreign and Indian
banks having their main offices in Bombay, Calcutta, and Delhi.  Most of them
closed their offices upon partition, so that Pakistan had to rebuild its banking
system. In July 1948, the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) was established as the
central bank of the country. One of its first functions was the issuance of
currency to replace Indian currency notes in circulation as a transition measure.
The second important function was the promotion of banking companies.  A Banking
Companies Act was passed in 1948, and the first new bank to be established, with
government participation, was the National Bank of Pakistan in November 1949. The
existing Pakistani banks also were encouraged to expand and the branches of for-
eign banks allowed to continue their activities undisturbed. In the 1950s, com-
mercial banking expanded rapidly and important new private banking institutions,
such as the National Commercial Bank in 1957 and the United Bank Ltd. (UBL) in
1959, were created. In the 1960s, two other important banks were established-
Commerce Bank and Standard Bank. During this time SBP carried out its traditional
central banking functions by inspecting banking institutions. It also contributed
to the formation of professional bankers through a centralized training scheme.
3.      As banking grew, GOP felt the need to review the effectiveness of banks in
promoting economic development. In 1959 a Credit Enquiry Commission was appointed
to examine the provision of credit to agriculture, business and industry, with
particuLar emphasis on primary producers and small establishments. The Commission
found a tendency for credit to gravitate towards established groups of
entrepreneurs and to be unavailable to small industrial and agricultural
producers, and recomiended that measures be taken to redistribute financing
resources. Acting on these general recomnendations, during the sixties, GOP



-47-                           ANNEX 2
Page  2
sought to channel credit to targeted sectors mainly through specialized institu-
tions and other schemes financed by SBP. However, within the commercial banking
system little was changed; in 1972 GOP saw the need to enact a Banking Reforms Act
which expanded significantly SBP's control authority over the banks, to the extent
of removing directors and management if necessary. Capital and reserve require-
ments were raised and reinvestment of a percentage of profits made compulsory.
GOP felt that the banks were failing to play an effective part in ensuring a wider
and more equitable dispersaL of the benefits of economic growth., Together with
banking reforms, SBP introduced more specialized credit schemes for small
producers in agriculture and industry, this time enjoining greater commercial bank
participation. These measures proved to be a prelude to the Nationalization of
Banks Act of 1974, whereby the SBP and all the commercial banks incorporated in
Pakistan were brought under direct government ownership. The directors and
management of the banks were removed and replaced by government appointees. The
Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) was established to coordinate the activities of the
nationalized banks, which were merged to form five banks. Since nationalization,
the banking system has continued to expand its operations and geographical
presence, under more direct government control. Since then, GOP has continued to
permit the establishment of foreign banks. As recenLly as in 1982, three addi-
tional foreign banks entered the Pakistani banking industry.
Present Structure
4.      Commercial Banking System.  With total assets of Rs 254 billion, or about
BOZ of the assets of the financial system as of June 30, 1983, and a network of
7,000 branches, commercial banks play a dominAnt role in Pakistan's financial
system.  The five NCBs accounted for about 94Z of deposits, 90Z of advances and
87Z of commercial banks' net profits.
Table 1: The Commercial Banking System,
Key Indicators, 1978-1984 /a
NCBs                  FCBs
1978   1983    1984      1978  1983  1984
Deposits (Rs billion)                63.2   159.7   175.1    3.6   10.3  n.a.
Advances (Rs billion)                37.0    91.6   100.4    ,.3   10.2  n.a.
Total Assets (Rs billion)            95.0   225.3   246.7    9.6   28.6  n.a.
Advances/Deposits (Z)                58.5    57.4    57.3   92.0   99.0  n.a.
Capital and Reserves (Rs billion)    1.0       4.5      5.3    0.2    0.8  n.a.
Capital/Deposit (Z)                    1.6     2.8      3.0    4.9    4.7  n.a.
Net Profits (Rs billion)              0.15    0.74    0.97   0.06   0.11 n.a.
Return on Total Assets Z              0.14    0.30    0.64   0.62   0.52 n.a.
Operating Costs as Z of Average
Total Deposits                      3.8      3.0     3.1    5.2    5.2  n.a.
Number of Branches /b               7,038   6,931   6,777       39     59  n.a.
/a  As of December 31.
7i As of June 30.
Source:  Grindlays Bank, June 30, 1983 and staff estimates.



-48-                           ANNE  2
Page 3
5.      Traditionally, Pakistani banks also have had a branch system abroad.
Branches were first established in the United Kingdom. More recently, the branch
system abroad has expanded as Pakistan's foreign trade diversified and as increas-
ing numbers of Pakistani laborers migrated to Europe, the Middle East, Europe,
and Africa. By 1983, NCBs had 200 branches abroad (Table 2) which contribute
significantly to deposits via workers' remittances and to profits through foreign
exchange and trade operations.
Table 2:  Foreign Branches of NCBs
Continental         Other
USA     UK      Europe     Culf   Places   Total
1982   1982      1982      1982    1982      1982
HBL                         1     22        32         3       15       73
NBP                         4    _10         2         2        7       25
UBL                         1     26        20         -        -       47
MCB                         -     20         -         -        -       20
ABL                         -      3         -         -        -        3
Bank Al Jazira (Joint
Venture of NBP)           -      -        16         -       -        16
Middle East Bank (Joint
Venture of MCB)           1      1        10.                4        16
Total                       7     82        80         5       26      200
Source:  Pakistan and Gulf Economist.
6.     The NCBs' boards and chief executives are nomuinated by GOP.  In recent
years, care has been taken to maintain continuity of direction where possible and
justified. Overall the banks are well managed. Internally, banks have adopted
different administrative structures. Some are quite centrally managed while
others are significantly decentralized. Some emphasize foreign trade activities,
others domestic operations. These different management styles, freedom of
operation, and traditional different clientele have made for diversity and healthy
competition within the system. Three of the five banks--Habib, National, and
United--are much more important in terms of the volume of their operations and
their impact on the economy. Of the remaining two-Allied and Muslim-the latter
is more aggressive and efficient. Allied is the smallest accounting for about 5Z
of the operations of the NCBs. Table 3 presents the situation in 1983 and 1984.



-49                              ANNEX 2
Page 4
Table 3: Comparative Position of the NCBs
Capital                                            Net
and Reserves      Deposits      Advances              Profit
---- (Rs billion)-  -    (Rs million)
1983   1984    1983    1984   1983    1984         1983  1984
Habib Bank      1.9     2.2    55.0    62.0   31.6    35.7           351   328
United Bank    1.0      1.3    41.5    44.6   25.0    26.4           149   338
National Bank  1.0      1.1    40.6    44.4   19.0    21.5           143   196
Muslim Bank    0.5      G.5    15.7    16.9   10.9    11.2            88    88
Allied Bank    0.2      0.2      6.9     7.2    5.1       5.5         12    12
Total           4.6     5.3   159.7   175.1   91.6   100.3           743   962
=        --      -=    =          =-=              
Source:  Grindlays Bank, June 30, 1983.
7.     The PBC plays an important coordinating role in the NCB system.  It is also
the communications link with the Covernment, enabling the banks to put before the
Government proposals on banking Legislations and- regulations.  Additionally, the
PBC formulates policy guidelines for the banks, reviews.their performance and
determines areas where corrections or greater coordination is needed. The PBC,
however, has no legislative or regulatory functions.  The first remain with GOP
authorities and are essentially contained in the Banking Companies Ordinance of
1962. The latter is the jurisdiction of the SBP which establishes reserve
requirements, credit controls ard.allocations, interest rate levels and structure,
and commission charge guidelines.
Recent Performance
8.     Deposits.  The comparative deposit figures for the commercial banking
system for the years 1979-1984 are shown in Table 4.
Table 4:  Commercial Banks - Deposits
(Rs billion)
z
(March)    (March)
1980    1981    1982      1983      1984        1984
Demand Deposits         22.8    27.2    28.3       34.0      30.0        24.9
Savings Deposits        26.8    30.0    33.1       42.8      52.1        43.3
Fixed Deposits under
One Year                8.2      8.4    10.3      13.8      16.0        13.3
Fixed Deposits over
One Year                8.2      9.7    12.4      18.1      22.2        18.5
Total Deposits          66.0    75.3    84.1    108.7    120.3          100.0
Source:  SBP 1983/1984 Annual Report.



-.50-                          ANNEX 2
Page  5
Overall deposits have doubled from Rs 66.0 billion in 1980 to Rs 120.3 bilLion in
1984. Traditionally the banks have tapped personal savings, and have expanded the
base of personal deposits from 64% of the total in 1978 to 72% in 1983. The
importance of government deposits has been reduced Erom 7.5% to 5%. Corporate
savings have remained relatively constant at about 17%. Other deposits from
foreign and domestic constitutents have reduced importance, down from 10.5% to 6%.
9.     The second important development is the savings promotion effort of the
commercial banks in recent years to reach larger numbers of depositors, even in
the most remote areas of the country. Between 1980 and 1984 the number of
depositors increased from 15.4 million to 20.2 million while the average size of
account rose from Rs 4,550 to Rs 6,100.  The growth in deposits was achieved
without significant increases in average interest rates, still around 6.25%, but
rather through branching and marketing efforts.
10.     The third important development is the growing importance of fixed long
term deposits, which have tripled by between 1980 and 1984. Noteworthy is the
development of time deposits of over five years maturity, which since their intro-
duction in the third quarter of 1981 have grown to Rs 10.4 billion or 8.6% of
total deposits at March 31, 1984.
11.     With respect to other resources, the noticeable variations are in
increased borrowings from the SBP representing greater use of specialized credit
Lines, particularly for export financing. In 1978, borrowings from SBP repre-
sented 8.3% of total resources while in 1984 they stand around 13%. The other
important change in the rcsource base of the commercial banking system is the
continuous growth of the capital and reserve accounts, and the important equity
contribution to the NCBs by GOP during 1981. While in 1978 capital and reserves
of the system stood at only Rs 1.9 billion, in 1983 this increased to Rs 5.3 --
billion due to an increase in paid-in capital subscribed by GOP and SBP and should
increase profits. The NCBs have been allowed to strengthen their capital by
retaining net profit after tax; in the past they were required to remit all profit
to the Government. An important improvement has taken place in the capital
deposit ratio, increasing the stability of the system and of individual banks. As
a result, the combined profits of five NCBs increased from Rs 150 million in 1975
to Rs 962 million in 1984 (Table 1).
12.     Advances.  In the period bank credit grew at an even faster rate than
deposits, reflecting greater use of SBP's refinance credit lines, and some relaxa-
tion of credit ceilings by the State Bank. In 1978, total credit was 69.7% )f
bank deposits, while in 1982 it constituted 78.4%. Under the credit allocation
guidelines issued by tke SBP, the expansion of credit was directed to different
sectors of the economy in about the same proportion as in previous years. The
following table compares the commercial banks' portfolio by sector between 1978
and 1982.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Table 5: Commercial Banks Advances by Economic Sector
(Rs billion)
For June 30                  1978   1979   1980   1981   1982       X
Agriculture, forestry,
hunting and fishing         2.7    2.6    3.5    4.3    3.7    6.3
Mining and quarrying          0.2    0.3    0.5    0.7    0.1    0.9
Manufactu ing                13.0   16.1   16.9   20.6   21.1   36.8
Construction                  1.0    0.9    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.9
Elect.1city, gas, water,
and sanitary services       0.3    0.2    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.9
Commerce                      9.0   11.0   12.9   13.9   16.1   28.1
Transport, storage and
communication               0.5    0.5    1.1    0.7    0.7    1.2
Services                      2.9    3.9    6.3    7.5    8.5   14.8
Others                        2.5-   3.7    4.2    4.8    5.1    9.1
Total                        32.1   38.7.  46.7   54.3   57.4  100.0
.0=      !               =      =
Source: SBP 1983/1984 Annual- Report.
13.     These figures show the continued predominance of the mAnufacturing sector
with 37Z of bank credit. The second most important sector is commerce, absorbing
28Z of bank advances. Given the marked improvement in industrial investment since
1982, the proportion of credit of the manufacturing sector is estimated to have
increased to around 40%. The figures show some uneven treatment of the manufac-
turing sector and an expansion rate slightly below the overall expansion of
credit.  This is explained by the reduction of government investment in manufac-
turing in the past three years because of its policy of limiting public sector
investment to BMR projects and promoting private investment in the sector. The
slack was picked up by the private sector only gradually, and even then the credit
demands from p.ivate industrialists will not match in the short run the very large
demands made for public industrial enterprises in the past.
Profitability
14.     With the measures taken by GOP and PBC since 1979, the overall performance
and profitability of NCBs has improved considerably.  The combined net profit
after ta. of the NCBs increased from Rs 150 miLlion in 1978 to Rs 970 million, an
annual compound growth rate of 36%. However, profitability remains relatively low
and the performance among MCBs is mixed. As of December 31, 1984, Habib Bank's
profits before taxes were Rs 828 million, or 52.31 of the combined profits of the
NCBs although its total assets were 37% of the NCBs.  In 1984, return on total
assets ranged from 0.91Z for HBL to 0.28% for Allied Bank, the smallest NCB. All
NCBs, to a certain extent, continue to suffer from the problem of overstaffing due
to strong labor unions. In 1984, personnel cost as a percentage of deposits of
NCBs averaged 1.89Z ranging from a low of 1.63% for HBL to 3.03% for Allied Bank.
The relatively low profitability of NCBs is caused mainly by: GOP's monetary
policy of maintaining very high reserve requirements (35% of deposits); the credit
allocation policy, which directs NCBs to finance priority sectors at low interest
rates; a large network of low profit branches in rural areas; non-payment of



-52-                            ANNEX 2
Page 7
interest on loans to the public sector; and general overstaffing. FCBs, however,
are able to increase profitability by catering to selected corporate clients and
carrying out a larger proportion of fee-based business for which profit margins
are greater.
Table 6:  Earnings of NCBs
N.s million)
*                                                           1984
Share Z    Z Increase
1981    1982    1983    1984    All          over 1981
-NBP        31       99     143      196      20.4          632
HBL        122     273      351     328       34.1          269
UBL         43       29     149     338       35.1          786
MCB         33       44      88      88        9.2          267
ABL          6        5      12       k2       1.2          100
Total      235     450      743     962      100.0          409
Source:  Grindlays Bank, June 30, 1983 and mission's estimates.
15.     RoLe in Industrial Financing.  Since 1979, the SP has aLlocated a term
industrial financing role to the NCBs by assigning them specific allocations.
These allocations, if not utilized, cannot be channeled to other credit purposes
by the banks. Initially there was some reluctance by the banks to participate in
the scheme.  This reluctance was based on the low interest spread obtained.  By
regulation these loans could only earn 112 p.a. while working capital loans nor-
mally earn 14Z. However, the disincentive was removed partially through the use
of Participation Term Certificates. Also, the more efficient banks found ways to
make these operations more profitable by insisting on other banking business such
as letters of credit, working capital, collections and foreign exchange.
16.     Term lending by NCBs has increased sharply since FY83 (Table 7).  With
Islamization of the banking system and the use of Term Finance Certificates, the
banks do not have the problem of crossed rates and term lending has become more
attractive.  In 1985, it is expected that actual disbursements of term loans to
industry during the year will increase further to Rs 2.0 billion.  The rapid
growth of this portfolio also was aided by the partial liberalization of interest
rates through the adoption of Participation Term Certificates. In parallel, the
banks have sought and SEP has allowed the reception of time deposits with fixed
maturities of five and more years, which have gained acceptance rapidly without
significant cost increases. This factor has reduced the risk of conversion of
short term deposits into longer term loans.



-53-                          ANNEX 2
Page 8
Table 7: NCBs, Fixed Industrial Investment Allocations
and Utilization, 1978/1979-1983/1984
(Rs million)
Allocation       Utilization /a      Percent
FY81                576                387             67
FY82              1,736              1,374             79
FY83              1,579              1,387             88
FY84              1,837              1,604             87
FY85              2,195              1,716 /b          78
7a  Net of repayments.
Th As of June 13, 1985.
Source: SBP.
Prospects
17.     Prospects for the development of the commercial banking sector in Pakistan
will be shaped by at least four major factors. The first will be the overall
performance of the Pakistan economy and the demands that the different sectors
will make on the banks for funds -and services. At present, the prospects are for
continued growth and a widening of services demanded. The second factor has to. do
with the future savings rate; Pakistan presently has A relatively low rate of
domestic savings at 7% of national income. There is scope for increased savings
particularly as income increases, becomes more widely distributed and inflation is
checked. The third factor is the introduction of Islamic concepts into the
economy, particularly in the financial sector, and the related issue of freeing
interest rates as a result of participation schemes. Preliminary analysis shows
that Islamization has thus far resulted in gradual deregulation of the financial
system. Under the Islamic banking system, scope exists for increased bank
deposits attracted by higher yields and there is the possibility for the banks to
match these resources with credit demands maintaining adequate spreads. The
fourth factor which will influence tihe development of the commercial banks is
constituted by the policies that the SBP will pursue, particularly with respect to
reserve requirements, credit ceilings, credit allocation, and other regulatory
functions.
18.     Recent experience and statements point to the likelihood of relatively
flexible and judicious management of the system with a tendency to free up regula-
tions as needed. An example is the recent freeing up of service charges, on which
banks can now compete freely. The ceiling on term loans has been removed while
the rate ceiling on short term working capital loan has been increased from 15% to
20%. This attitude and actions will alLow the system to develop in accordance
with the needs of the economy and permit it greater internal efficiency. The last
factor is the continuing role of the PBC in guiding and coordinating the UCBs'
activities. In spite of the banks' improving performance which would seem to
justify a greater degree of independence and competition, this is not likely
particularly in new areas of banks' involvement such as Islamic instruments,



ANNEX 2
-541                           Page  9
leasing, or industrial term financing. However, it is felt that continued PBC
action should not mean a departure from the soft-glove approach utilized until nov
with much success. The relationship between the PBC and the banks will continue
to depend much on personaLities involved.
19.     The two important policy issues relevant to the comercial banking system
are: the levels and structure interest rates, and the credit allocation system.
SBP is charged with regulating both. In the past, the levels and structure of the
interest rate have been utilized by SBP to pursue two contradictory objectives:
increase the rate of savings through attractive deposit interest rates and promote
investment in certain sectors and activities by offering low cost financing for
them through ch.- commercial banks.  The result has been a crossed interest rate
- 1..    structure which had to be subsidized either by GOP, the non-preferred sectors or
the banks.  The financial authorities had recognized the problem but were never-
theless reluctant to address this issue directly and publicly in view of GOP's
comitment to Islamization of the economy. With the adoption of Islamic instru-
ments both for deposits and loans, the lid has been taken off interest rate levels
and the crossing effect eliminated. As long as the result is that of rationaLiz-
ing interest rates to reflect current price movements and market interplay between
savers and users, GOP'zs. < ^rvach can be considered adequate. This, however, is an
aspect to be mcaitored carefully in the future.
20.     The banking system in Pakistan has traditionally been subject to quantita-
tive credit controls. These have taken the form of credit ceilings and credit
allocation measures. GOP has maintained these controls because of the interest
rate distortions of the recent past and the policy of moving away from interest
rates, it has no alternative but to manage credit on the basis of quantitative-
assignments. COP argues that this policy is in keeping with the needs of a
developing economy with limited resources and the need of maintaining fiscal
stability. SBP monitors credit limits and allocations closely and re-adjusts
amounts assigned periodically. While the system appears rigid and cumbersome, so
far no convincing arguments have been made for inefficiency or distortions in
making credit available as demanded, in the industrial sector.



-55-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Islamization of Pakistan's Financial System: - A Preliminary Assessment
Introduction
1.      Under Islam, it is considered an injustice if the party providing finan-
cial capital is guaranteed a fixed and pre-determined interest rate while the
party providing enterprise alone is made to bear the investment risk. A fixed
interest also is considered unjust to the lender if the borrower earns a profit
quite out of proportion to what he pays in interest. Capital is not considered a
separate factor of production but should be inextricably linked with enterprise in
a profit and loss sharing arrangement. Since interest rates are considered a
major source of injustice and contrary to Islam's objective of social equity,
their abolition becomes the driving force of the financial Islamization process.
Although there is some disagreement among Islamic scholars, the Government has
adopted the view that interest, defined as a predetermined fiied return for the
use of money, is inconsistent with an Islamic system. The focus of reforms is to
replace interest rates them with financial mechanisms acceptable to Islam in the
short run, and by a more fundamental readjustment of all basic social and economic
relations in the long run.
2.      Pakistan's 1973 constitution required that all existing laws conform with
the injunctions of IsLam but only after 1977, when the present Government took
office, has the creation of an Islamic economic system become a major government
objective. In 1980, following a number of reports and considerable public
debate, 1/ the Government began implementing a gradual and cautious program of
financial Islamization. Beginning July 1, 1979, the House Building Finance
Corporation (HBFC), the Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP), and the National
Investment Trust (NIT) began to reorient their financial activities toward non-
interest bearing operations.  NCBs and cooperative credit societies were required
to provide interest-free loans in kind up to Rs 5,000 to farmers cultivating
subsistence holdings. Bankers Equity Limited (BEL) was established to finance
private industrial investment through the provision of new financing modes. On
June 26, 1980, legal changes were introduced to permit the issue of Participation
Term Certificates to replace debentures and the establishment and issue of
Modaraba companies and certificates. BEL was registered as the first Modaraba
company in Pakistan. On July 1, 1980, the Small Business Finance Corporation
(SBFC) converted to non-interest operations. On January 1, 1981, commercial banks
1/ See An Agenda for Islamic Economic Reform. The Report of the Committee on
Islamization Appointed by the Finance Minister, Pakistan Institute of
Development Economics, Islamabad, May 1980; and Report of the Council of
Islamic Ideology on the Elimination of Interest from the Economy, June 1980.



-56-                           ANNEX 3
Page 2
were directed to begin accepting profit and loss sharing (PLS) savings and term
deposit accounts. To facilitate the operation of these accounts, the State Bank
of Pakistan converted a number of transactions previously conducted on a non-
interest basis. On July 1, 1982, Musharikas were introduced to provide working
capital financing on a PLS basis, together with hire-purchase and leasing for
fixed investment.
3.      The Government has used the transition period during which conventional
financing modes and new IsLamic instruments functioned in parallel to test the new
financing arrangements and their effects on intermediaries and investors. GOP has
approached this process pragmatically and has made a number of adjustments to
prevent major disruptions to the system.   Six years aEter the first measures were
adopted, the FY85 Budget announced that the financial system would be fully con-
verted by July 1985, with the following timetable: 1/
(a) From January 1, 1985, all transactions of banks with the Federal and
Provincial Governments, public sector corporations, private and joint
stock companies will be based on Islamic (non-interest) financing;
(b) Effective April 1, 1985, all new financing by financial institutions to
all entities including individuals shall be on the basis of (a);
[c) From July 1, 1985, banks will not accept: interest-beiring deposits. All
savings and term deposits will be on a PLS basis;
(d) Islamic financing modes will be extended to the agricultural sector; and
(e) Foreign loans and deposits will continue on an interest basis.
Islamization of the Financial System
4.      PLS Deposits.  Commercial banks have operated voluntary PLS accounts since
i981 but with full Islamization, time and savings deposits in all financial
institutions will be on a PLS basis. Under the PLS system, financial institutions
declare a return on deposits every six months based on profits earned with PLS
funds. A reserve fund will be set up with 5X-1OZ of profits to offset future
losses and equalize rates of return over time. Since the banks' more profitable
operations were earmarked for PLS funds, returns have been consistently higher
than for comparable fixed interest deposits, although there has been considerable
variation among banks. As Table 1 shows, PLS deposits recorded strong growth and
by December 1984 accounted for 26Z of total deposits and almost one-third of
interest-bearing deposits.
1/ All existing interest-based obligations will be honored until discharged.



-57-                            ANNEX 3
Page 3
Table 1:  Deposits in Nationalized Commercial Banks, 1981-1984 /a
(Rs billion)
1981          1982       1983         1984
Total Deposits                       70.6         82.8       106.9        111.7
Interest-bearing   -            (54.7)        (66.4)      (86.3)      (91.0)
PLS                             ( 6.5)        (12.9)      (19.9)      (29.4)
Memorandum Item:
PLS as Z of Total Deposits         9.2          15.4        18.6        26.3
PLS as X of Interest Deposits    11.9           19.4        23.1        32.3
/a  As of end-December.
Source: State Bank of Pakistan.
5.      Government Finances.  Government savings schemes, which together with
prize bonds finance a large proportion of public, development expenditures, L/ will
continue to operate on the basis of fixed interest. Prize bonds which do not pay
interest but distribute prizes at random, will remain unchanged. Government
borrowing through treasury bills and bonds will also cqntinue on an interest
basis. Financial arrangements between the Federal Government, provincial govern-
ments and government corporations will remain unchanged since the Government
considers these as merely accounting adjustments which do not give rise to
injustice.
6.      Hark-Ups.  Among trade financing modes, the most commonly used is the
mark-up, which is applied to the financing of inputs for agriculture and industry
as welL as for domestic and international trade. Instead of lending, the finan-
cial institution makes a fictitious purchase of a portion of the company's assets
or inputs which is sold back to the company when the loan falls due at a price
incLuding a mark-up. Instead of a penalty for late payments, timely repayments of
the loan command rebates in the agreed mark-up. A mark-down is also possible by
which assets are sold and re-bought by the borrower at a lower price. Mark-downs
also can be used as discount rates for the purchase of trade bills and notes of
credit. The mark-up or mark-down is negotiated freely between the parties but SBP
has set minimum and maximum rates of 10 and 20%. Although mark-ups were intro-
duced to provide short-term financing, in 1985 SBP extended the concept to term
financing. In this case, SBP only specified a 10% minimum but no maximum rate.
Mark-ups entail a predetermined fixed rate of return, security of principal and
are not governed by the principles of profit and loss sharing, they are a less
preferred, but nonetheless acceptable, financing mode under Islam. Hark-up
financing is expected to be used extensively by financial institutions, despite
criticism in some quarters that it is tantamount to charging interest.
1/ The net flow of resources into these schemes was equivalent to 45% of
development expenditures in FY84.



-58-                   ~~~~~ANNEX 3
Page 4
7.      Participation Term Certificates (PTCs).  Similar to redeemable equity,
PTCs are transferable instruments based on the PLS principle and were intended to
replace bonds and debentures for medium and long term local financing. PTCs are a
form of redeemable equity whereby instead of receiving interest, PTC holders share
in the profits and losses of the issuing company. PTCs can be issued for up to
ten years, are secured by a fixed mortgage on company assets, and the claim on
company profits is based on pretax profits and is a tax deductible expense.
Although technically the PTC share of profits should be based gn the ratio of PTCs
to the company's paid-up capital plus reserves, FTC agreements have specified an
expected rate of return of 15X.  Most PTCs are being issued at 17% with a 2Z
rebate if the company makes payments within 30 days of closing its annual
accounts. Specific agreements may provide that in the event of losses a portion
of PTCs can be turned into convertible shares, similar to preference shares in
terms of rights and privileges.  If the company returns to profitability these
shares can be reconverted into PTCs.
8.      During the initial stages of Islamization, the Government expected PTCs to
become the main term lending instrument fog both development finance institutions
and commercial banks.  However, because of its PLS features, PTCs met with con-
siderable resistance from the private sector and the commercial banks.  The
private sector voiced strong reservations about the potential involvement of
financial institutions in the management of coLpanies and the possible dilution of
ownership in the event of losses. More importantly,.because of their deposit base
the commercial banks were concerned with the excessive transformation of short-
term demand liabilities into venture capital-type investment. The commercial
banks were concerned that given their already high involvement in term financing,
a complete switch to PLS-based instruments would have an adverse effect on their
international credit rating.
9.      Modifications were introduced to make PTCs more attractive.  Instead of
accounting on an annual basis, PTC holders can, over the period of the PTC issue,
adjust shortfalls in lean years with surpluses in more profitable years in accord-
ance with the pro-rata share of profits attributable to the PTC issue. Any excess
profit over the agreed rate of return will be held in a special reserve to adjust
for profit shortfalls or loss of principal until redemption. PTC holders can
agree with the issuing company on a profit definition that is different from
accounting profits (e.g., different depreciation rates) and interim annual redemp-
tions can take place out of cash flows regardless of profitability.  Although
these refinements reduced the risk inherent in PTCs they did not meet the commer-
cial banks' concerns regarding safety of principal and regularity of income, and
their desire to avoid PLS-based instrument for term-lending. As a result, the
Government introduced a new term financing mode based on mark-ups.
10.     Term Finance Certificates (TFCs).  The recently introduced TFCs are
expected to take the place of PTCs and will become the major financing instrument
for fixed investment. Commercial banks still have the option of using PTCs in the
case of established companies with proven profitability and dividend records. The
TFC involves application of the mark-up principle, initially designed as a short-
term financing instrument to long-term investment financing. The provider of
funds (TFC holder) acquires assets from the investor which are sold back at a
predetermined mark-up. The purchase price plus the mark-up is paid back in annual



ANNEX 3
Page  5
or semL-annual installments over an agreed period of time.  Installments are
covered by TFCs which are equivalent to promissory notes issued by the borrower in
respect of equivalent installments oE principal and interest. Bridge (medium-
term) finance will be provided on the same basis, to be retired out of public
flotation of shares, cash flows or new funds injected by owners from their own
resources. SBP has determined that the actual mark-up or rate of profit will be
freely negotiated between the parties but has set a minimum of 10% p.a.
11.     Hire Purchase.  To finance acquisition of machinery and equipment, as well
as durable consumer goods, a hire-purchase is an interest-free agreement in which
the lender shares ownership with the borrower. As the borrnwer repays in
installments, he gradually gains ownership of the asset. In addition to periodic
repayment of principal, the lender receives a share of the imputed rental value,
net of depreciation, of the item purchased in proportion to its outstanding share
in the total outlay.
12.     Leasing.  A saLe under which the price of the item procured including
profit is payable on a deferred basis in installments or lump sum. The lessor
(financial institution) retains ownership of the asset and the lessee has posses-
sion and use of it against payment of rentaL over a specified period. Although
hire-purchase and leasing arrangements are common in many. countries, they are new
developments in Pakistan's financial system.
13.     Modaraba.  The Modaraba Ordinance of 1980 defines a Modaraba as a business
in which one party participates with his money and another with his efforts and
skills, and a Modaraba Company as a, company engaged in the business of floating
and managing Modarabas. A Modaraba is an investment fund for which resources are
obtained through the sale of Modaraba certificates by a Modaraba Company. Banks
and financial institutions can register themselves as Modaraba Companies and in
that capacity, provide risk capitaL to Modarabas in the form of equity and credit
with equity (PLS) features. An important advantage of Modarabas is that it
enables project sponsors to mobilize funds directly from the public without
recourse to finarcial intermediaries. In this way, funds raised through Modarabas
fall outside the credit ceilings imposed by SBP.
14.     Modarabas can be malti- or uni-purpose.  Initially, a company registered
under the existing Companies Act was eligibLe for registration as a Modaraba
Company provided that it had paid-up capitaL of Rs 5 million, of which a minimum
of Rs 2.5 million is allocated to its Modaraba operations; or solely engaged in
Modaraba activities with a paid-up capital of Rs 6 million. In order to encourage
the use of Modarabas, the Government subsequently towered the limit on paid-up
capital to Rs 2.5 million. The Modaraba Company must invest in at least 10% of
the capital it offers to subscribers. The income of Modaraba Company is tax
exempt if at least 90% of its annual profits are distributed to certificate
holders. Profits are distributed only after the Board decides what share of
profits should be retained in reserve for meeting contingencies or for equalizing
profit distribution. Losses are shared among certificate holders after recourse
to reserves and unappropriated profits. If accumulated losses exceed 50% of
subscribed capital, the Modaraba Company must cease operations.



-60_                           ANNEX 3
Page  6
15.     Musharikas.  Based on the PLS principle, the parties contribute capital
and/or effort in a specified venture. Profits are shared according to a pre-
agreed formula but losses, if any, are shared in proportion to the funds con-
tributed by each party. A proportion of profits is set aside for the promoter as
a management bonus for having managed the venture. Although in principle a
Musharika is a form of partnership, an amendment to the Partnership Act of 1932
has excluded Musharika as a legal partnership in Pakistan. Some Musharika agree-
ments expressly specify that the relationship between the banking company and its
customer is that of debt and credit or, allowing the payment of "reasonable
compensation" or liquidated damages, in addition to principal in the event of
default. A Musharika financing scheme was Launched by NCBs on June 1, 1982,
designed to meet the working capitaL requirements of trade and industry. However,
the scheme has not proved popular and most working capital financing is being
provided on a mark-up basis.
16.     Other financing modes introduced as part of the Islamization process
include: (i) interest-free production loans to subsistence farmers and fishermen
for the purchase of seasonal inputs and to cover maintenance costs
(ii) Qard-e-Hasana, or interest-free loans given on compassionate grounds and
repayable when the borrower is able to repay.  A large proportion of these loans
go to deserving students who must repay when they complete their studies and find
employment; (iii) interest-free loans with a service charge through which banks
can recover their costs of operations; and (iv) rent-sharing which allows the
banks to form partnerships with their clients in the purchase of property by
sharing in the rental value or any other income from the property.
Evaluation
17.     The Government is treading a careful path between the need to introduce
new financial practices consistent with Islamic tenets and the need to avoid a
disruption of the financial flows required by a modern industrial economy. For
institutions dealing with foreign loans, the Government has given an assurance
that they will continue to function on the basis of interest. The Government has
emphasized that while it is committed to the process of Islamization it needs to
proceed gradually and cautiously. As a result, Pakistan's financial system is
undergoing a process of change which will continue as experience with the new
system grows. Islamization has been in operation for too short a period to permit
a full evaluation, but some emerging trends can be discerned.  Although some
uncertainties remain about evolution of the system it appears that, on the whole,
IsLamization is having a beneficial impact on the financial system.
18.     The most important effect of Islamization has been the freeing of finan-
cial rates of return particularly for term-lending and a more market-oriented
approach to the pricing of capital. By allowing financial institutions to nego-
tiate rates of return and mark-ups within a range of 10% to 0Z0 for short-term
financing and setting only a minimum of 10% for term lending, the term imbalance
which existed under the interest-based system has been corrected. Returns on PTCs
and TFCs are being set at 15X compared to 11% for industrial rupee term-lending
under the previous system. Working capital and trade financing through Musharikas
and mark-ups will remain 14%. Moreover, if Government continues to aLlow
flexibility in the setting of rates, mark-ups and rates of return on new financing



ANNEX 3
Page  7
modes will have a stronger alLocative function than was previously the case in
Pakistan. By making returns more responsive to market conditions, financial
institutions can react more readily to changing economic circumstances and adjust
rates in the event of higher infLation.
19.     Because of its emphasis on equity or quasi-equity investment modes and the
need to develop alternative financing mechanisms, Ibtamization is encouraging the
diversification of financial instruments and a stronger role for the private
sector. Two Leasing companies with majority private sector ownership are already
in operation. It is expected that once TFCs become widely used, NBCs will be
permitted to selL certificates in the stock exchange, encouraging the development
of secondary markets in Pakistan. Modarabas enable private investors to mobilize
funds directly from the public and thus provide an additional source of finance
outside credit ceilings. Hire-purchase is a new development in Pakistan which
will expand financing options for the private sector. The Government is evaluat-
ing a proposed foreign private investment company sponsored by USAID and in the
FY86 Budget Speech announced it will encourage the setting up of private invest-
ment companies. The FY86 Budget also introduced a number of new financial instru-
ments designed to attract "black money" from Pakistan's extensive underground
economy. Although these resources will be used to finance public expenditure,
upon redemption the funds will be legitimized and thus will be available for
reinvestment in the formal sector. The Government has decided.to divest Rs 2
billion in shares of profitable public sector manufacturing units which is
expected to increase by about 10% the supply of securities in the stock exchange.
To encourage the development of the stock market, the Government has decided to
provide a tax exemption on dividetrd income from publicly traded companies and has
reduced the corporate tax for publicly listed companies from 55.% to 40%. An
important outcome of Islamization has been the abolition of stamp duty for all
financial transactions. This was a major constraint to the issuance of short-term
corporate paper in Pakistan.
20.     During the initial stages of Islamization, the Government sought to
replace most interest-based lending with financial instruments based on the PLS
concept, while mark-ups were to be used largely for trade finance. However, as
the system evolved it became clear that there was considerable resistance to the
use of PLS-based instruments, especially from commercial banks. NCBs opted to
direct most of their lending through mark-up instruments. As of end-1984, 83% of
bank lending from PLS deposits was for mark-up (and mark-down) financing. While
PLS-type lending (Musharikas and equity participation) accounted for less than l10
of PLS funds (Table 2). The Government appears to have accepted the need to avoid
a major switch to PLS lending instruments and has extended the mark-up concept
to term and working capital financing so that the majority of bank lending will
continue to be through non-PLS instruments. Although PTCs and other types of PLS
instruments will continue to operate, it is likely that they will be restricted to
situations where both financial institutions and investors see advantages in
opting for equity-type financing. To the extent that most financing takes place
through mark-ups, which offer security of principal and regular income flows, most
of the uncertainty and risk inherent in a PLS-based Islamic system are removed.
Thus, concerns over the possible adverse effects are diminished substantially.
These included:  the impact on risk-averse investors, the potential bias against
cyclicaL industries and long-gestation projects; legal uncertainties regarding



-62-                            ANNEX 3
Page 8
profit and loss statements, the potential involvement of government-controLled
financial institutions in operations or ownership of loss-making companies, and
the impact on the risk portfolio and international credit rating of comercial
banks.
Table 2:  Nationalized CommerciaL Banks, Investment of PLS Funds /a
-Amount            X   Share
Financing Mode                            (Rs million)               (Z)
Mark-up and Mark-down                       16,263                 83.0
.Commodity Operations                     (11,426)               (58.3)
.Trading Operations                        (2,755)               (14.1)
.Documentary Inland Bills                    (377)                (1.9)
.Export Bills                                (953)                (4.9)
.Import Bills                                (613)                (3.1)
.Others                                      (139)                (0.7)
PTCs               .                         1,094                  5.6
Musharika                                      777                  4.0
Hire-purchase                                  130                  0.7
Rent sharing                                   198                   1.0
Others                                       1,125                  5.7
Total                             19,587                100.0
la As of December 31, 1984.
Source: Pakistan Banking Council.
21.     A difficulty in mark-up lending is that penalty rates or compounding of
mark-up in the event of delayed payment is not possible. This is being resolved
by financial institutions through higher expected rates of return or mark-ups than
wouLd be charged ordinarily, combined with rebates for timely payments. Thus,
PTCs generally carry a 17% annual return which is reduced to 15% when payments are
made within 30 days of the closing of company accounts. Minimum and maximum rates
specified by SBP offer ample scope for this approach. In addition to providing an
incentive for timely payments the Government has set up Banking Tribunals which
are required to adjudicate disputes within 90 days. If the proceedings continue
beyond this period, the defaulter is required to either deposit in cash the amount
of any installment in default or furnish an acceptable security covering the
claim. If the borrower does not comply, the Banking Tribunal will decide in favor
of the financial institution. The Banking Tribunals appear to provide financial
institutions with needed protection against possible customer default under an
interest-free financing system although the expediency and effectiveness of the
Tribunals remains to be seen. To date, no Banking Tribunals have been appointed.
Provided the new Banking Tribunals operate efficiently, the legal framework of
Pakistan's financial system would be improved considerably. In the past, civil
courts in Pakistan have been ineffective in dealing with defaults with cases often
dragging for more than ten years.
22.     The effect of Islamization on deposits and the level of savings is less
certain. Returns on deposits in financial institutions will be based entirelj on
PLS principles. As there is no guaranteed return on deposits, this could lead to
the withdrawal from the formal financial system of risk-averse depositors. Since



a  -63-                        ANNEX 3
Page 9
government savings schemes will continue to operate on an interest basis, some
funds could be diverted into these schemes. On the other hand, non-interest
bearing deposits could also attract new depositors who previously declined to
maintain fixed interest deposits for religious reasons. Moreover, since PLS
returns will be determined by the proficability of each financial institution,
commercial banks and other deposit taking institutions are Likely to compete more
aggressively for funds, leading to improved service and, possibly, increased
mobilization of term and savings deposits. In recent years commercial banks in
Pakistan have improved considerably their overalL profitabiLity while somewhat
reducing operating costs. Net profits of NCBs increased from Rs 150 million in
1978 to Rs 740 million in 1983. Operating costs as a percentage of average
deposits decreased frem 3.8% to 3.2% over the same period. It is unlikely that
short run PLS returns would fall below interest rates offered prior to
Islamization. Over the long run, to the extent that the system can accommodate
minimum expected rates of return on PLS deposits (e.g., through reserve funds or
deposit insurance schemes) mcst of the uncertainty and increased risk would be
removed.
23.     PLS deposits mAy cause some problems for FCBs.  Since rates of return are
determined ex post, FCBs are not able to use rates in advance to regulate the
level and structure of their deposit base. This is more of a problem for FCBs
because their deposit base is less stabLe than that of NCBs and, given a large
proportion of corporace depositors, more sensitive to variatibns in rates of
return. Thus, a low rate of return in one period could lead to a run on deposits
during the next. However, since all proposed PLS returns must first be approved
by SBP, it is likely that SBP will attempt to keep variations among banks within a
small range to minimize volatiLity in deposits.
24.     Under IsLamization, Pakistan's monetary policy is not likely to be con-
ducted differently. Direct and selective controls are the primary instruments for
regulating the growth and distribution f domestic credit. The Annual Credit Plan
sets specific overall monetary and credit growth targets as well as credit ceil-
ings for each lending institution and minimum credit targets for priority sectors.
Although SBP has indirect instruments available to regulate credit expansion-such
as a 5% minimum cash reserve requirement, a 30% liquidity ratio, and its redis-
count rate-these are not used. Under the new system bank liquidity will continue
to be determined through credit ceilings and SBP will set detailed credit alloca-
tion targets. Priority lending targets imposed on commercial banks also will
continue. SBP's rediscount rate will not be abolished but will be tied to an
index of Government treasury bills and will continue to be used mainly for
liquidity support to DFIs.



-64-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
The Capital Market
Background
1.      Previously stock exchanges had operated in Karachi and Lahore, but these
were closed at independence.  The Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) reopened in 1949
with 13 listed companies and in 1970 the Lahore Stock Exchange was established.
Substantial private investment and rapid growth of private enterprise in the 1950s
created buoyant conditions on the Karachi Stock Exchange as reflected in aggregate
market capitalization and also in the number of new issues.  However, lack of
proper regulation resulted in substantial losses for some smaller investors. The
Securities and Exchange Ordinance was enacted in 1969 to protect investors -.n
corporate securities. Increased powers were thus acquired by the regulatory
authorities over listed companies and the Stock Exchange, especially with respect
to disclosure of information relating to corporate affairs.- Constraints on
private sector profitability in the late 1960s,- folldwed by the loss of East
Pakistan, the devaluation in 1972, and the Government's nationalization program
depressed the stock mirket which continued to stagnate throughout the 1970s.
Although, as a result of the improved economic climate and government measures to
encourage the private sector since 1977, the stock market has revived somewhat, it
remAins a relatively marginal source of funds for industrial investment.
The Stock Market
2.      Structure.  Stock exchanges in Pakistan principally trade only the
common 17 shares of companies registered in Pakistan. here is hardly any trading
in corporate debentures, preferred shares, and Government securities. Debentures
are a little used source of corporate finance and have been nearly aLways
privately placed, while Government securities are predominantly held by banks to
satisfy liquidity requiremencs. 2/
3.      Stock exchanges regulations consists of requirements imposed by
legislation, and those imposed by the stock exchanges on their own members and on
listed companies. Legislation consists of the new Companies Ordinance (1984), the
Securities and Exchange Ordinance ('969), and Rules (1971).  The Corporate Law
Authority, effectively a branch of the Ministry of Finance, and the Registrar of
Joint Stock Companies are responsible for ensuring compliance with these Acts.
1/ Termed "ordinary" shares in Pakistan.
2/ The current 35% statutory liquidity requirement consists of 30% invested
in approved securities and a minimum reserve requirement of 5% in cash.



ANNEX 4
Page  2
New issues are governed by the requirements of the Monopolies and Restrictive
Trade Practices Ordinance (1970) and the Capital Issues Act (1947). The latter
gives full authority to approve all public issues to the Controller of Capital
Issues (CCt) who is a Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Finance.  Listing on a
stock exchange in Pakistan is, in general, not the outcome of an independent
initiative by a company. Rather, it reflects the requirements of either
regulatory authorities or financial institutions, which impose the requirement as
a condition for the provision of credit. A company is required to secure public
status when its issued capital exceeds Rs 10 million (or Rs 5 mitlion in the case
of non-industrial companies). A public company is obliged to offer 5OX of its
shares to the pubLic. This requirement is relaxed in the case of subsidiaries of
multinational companies, so that the sponsors can retain 60X of the shares. All
public companies require a minimum of 250 individual sharehoLders.  It is not
known to what extent nominees are used to circumvent this requirement.
4.      Single capacity for both jobbing and braking prevail on both stock
exchanges.  Membership of the Exchange is on an individual or partnership basis
with each partner a member in his own right, with the exception that a father may
introduce his son.  The KSE has a fixed membership of 200, of whom about 80 are
active, but trading is dominated by about 30 members.  The Lahore Stock Exchange
has 120 members of-which only a handful are active. Admission is controlled by
the Board of each stock exchange within the framework of the 1971 Securities and
sExchange Rules.  Members must be citizens of Pakistan, and have some previous
experience of the securities business.  It has become a matter of practice that
members of KSE would satisfy a minimum networth criterion of Rs 500,000.  Outgoing
members usually trade their membership.  The going rate has appreciated in recent
years and at present, is understobd to be around Rs 300,000.  While the Securities
and Exchange Ordinance provides the Federal Government with powers whizh could
override the Board of a stock exchange, the Board carries responsibility for
regulation and control of matters relating to dealing, registration and settlement
in addition to admission, disciplining and suspension of members. The stock
exchanges have requirements relating to disclosure of, and the procedures for "own
account" dealing by members. In practice, disclosure is substantially overlooked
and regulations are not rigorously enforced. Commission rates are fixed according
to a schedule set by the stock exchanges, varying inversely with the value of a
transaction; in practice the commission amounts to an average of about 0.3% per
transaction. While the members feeL strongly about the low commission level, a
much greater source of concern expressed by the members is the low volume of
business.
Incentives for Investment in Equity
5.      The main incentives for investment in shares in Pakistan at preser.t are:
(i) Up to June 1985, profits earned from PLS banking accounts,
income from NIT 1/ units and dividend income from listed
companies was free from income tax up to a maximum of Rs 15,000.
Since the dividend yield on the listed stocks have ranged from
9% to 12X, the return on shares was substantially lower than
tax-free yields of 15Z to 17X available under the ITational Savings
Schemes (NSS). Budgetary measures for FY86 (para. 16) have



ANNEX 4
Page  3
effectively removed this disadvantage by exempting from tax
dividends paid by listed companies as well as income from NIT
units. This measure is probably one of the most powerful
incentives, which could accelerate the growth of the stock
market.
(ii) A tax credit in the form of an investment allowance (but
limited to one-third of total income and a maximum of
Rs 50,000) is available on acquisition of shares of new
issues declared qualified for this purpose but not for
secondary purchases of existing shares on the exchanges.
(iii) Overseas Pakistanis are allowed repatriation in foreign
exchange of original capital invested in listed shares
after these are held for one year. Dividend on shares
acquired by overseas Pakistanis is aLso repatriable.
However, NIT units and NSS-Khas Deposit Certificates
purchased abroad in foreign currency need not be held
for one year and are fully repatridble as to both capital
and income. Foreign investors, though not excluded from
purchasing Pakistan equities, have not done so because
exchange regulations prevent repatriation.
Capital Market Institutions
6.      Two most active participants in the stock market are the National
Investment Trust (NIT) and the 'Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP). ICP
underwrites new issues, operates 16 close-end mutuaL funds including the State
Enterprise Mutual Fund and also manages an "Investors Scheme" comprising about
9,800 discretionary or non-discretionary investment accounts with aggregate
investment of about Rs 378.6 million as of June 30, 1984. In operating its own
portfolio (valued at as 355.4 million as on June 30, 1984) ICP attempts market
stabilization through countercyclical action. Transactions by ICP constitute
around 16Z of the total trading on KSE. Shares valued at around Rs 3 billion are
held by NIT and ICP inclusive of the latter's mutual funds and Investor's Scheme.
NIT has managed to ensure a fair return to its unit-holders (currently around 13Z
against a sale price of Rs 11.50). The ICP mutual funds have performed well with
dividends of from 11% to 28Z. Average earnings of investors under the Investor's
Scheme have generally exceeded the rates of dividend payment on its mutual funds.
This compares favorably with the dividend performance of the stock market as a
whole as reflected by the fact that since FY81, dividends paid have ranged between
12% to 131 of total listed capital.
7.      Companies listed on the KSE as of June 30, 1985, cover a wide spectrum of
commercial activity with cotton textiles accounting for 291, engineering 10%,
chemicals and pharmaceuticals 8%. Of the 353 listed companies, 258 companies were
wholly owned by private investors, and 63 were joint sector companies, the balance
1/ The National Investment (Unit) Trust, a government controlled open-end
mutual fund.



-67-                           ANNe  4
Page 4
32 muLtinational companies. Multinational companies have been consistently
amongst the best performers on the stock exchange. This is partly due to con-
fidence in their management and partly because they operate in sectors (for
examplev chemicals and pharmaceuticals) which are more profitable and in which
cost barriers to new entrants are higher. They have also been relatively prompt
in their dividend payments, perhaps because dividends to overseas shareholders can
only be released after the local shareholders have been paid.
Recent Performance
8.      As  a result of improvement in the economy and in the overall investment
climate, the turnover of shares on the KSE accelerated rapidly in the four years
since 1980, corresponding in some degree to the rapid increase in the same period
in the market value of listed shares (Table 1).
Table 1: Karachi Stock Exchange 1/
Companies, Prices and Turnover
Aggregate      General Index
Market Value         of            Turnover
Number of   Paid-up   of Ordinary    Share Prices            of
December 31   Companies   Capital   Shares            (1975.-1976=rOO)    Shares
- -;Rs mitlion)                -            (million)
1977             282         4,973        6,008            130.6          24.6
1978             287         5,623        6,187            141.9          28.6
1979             305         6,645        7,608           &181.0          42.7
1980             314         7,630        6,404            167.5          25.8
1981             311 2/      8,078        6,859            200.6          35.3
1982             324         9,439       11,267            163.8          50.2
1983             327        10,035       15,201           207.6           76.0
1984             346        11,496       17,770           232.1          115.7
1985 3/          353        11,885       21,935           258.4           33.1
1/  The Lahore Stock Exchange has 247 listed companies all of which are listed
-          on the Karachi Stock Exchange as well.  Its trading activity is marginal.
2/ Eight companies delisted.
*      3/  Provisional figures up to June 27, 1985.  Turnover given is for the period
January-May 1985.
Source: Karachi Stock Exchange.
Of the listed shares about 150 are regularly traded and there is an active daiLy
market in only 30. Of these, most are blue chip companies, amongst which multina-
tionals and selected engineering enterprises feature prominently. Reasons for the
relatively thin market in shares is in large measure explained by the structure of
share ownership. Since 1980, paid capital of listed companies ha.. increased about
80% (from Rs 6.6 billion to Rs 11.9 billion), and the market value has almost
tripled (from Rs 7.6 billion to Rs 21.9 billion). The rapid increase in stock
prices reflects some underlying improvements in important segments of industry
(including cotton textiles, which account for nearly one-third of the listed
companies), revival of basic business confidence, recognition of political



-68-                            ANNEX 4
Page  5
stability, and cLarification of the Government's policies in respect of the rela-
tive roles of the private and public sectors. Another material factor has been
returning wealthy Pakistanis from the Middle East.
9.      Dividend Performance.  Generally, most investors in Pakistan both
individual and institutional tend to be income oriented. Cash dividend and high
payout ratio weigh more heavily in their investment decisions than potential
capital gains. Most listed companies therefore are required to,declare dividends
(Table 2).
Table 2: Dividend Performance
No. of Listed            No. of Companies
Year           Companies                 Paying Dividends            Z
1979               305                        151                    50
1980              314                         163                    52
1981               311                   e    164                    53
1982               324                        167                    52
1983              327                         183                    56
1984              346                         165 1.                 48
l/ This is an interim position with results of onLy 300 companies.
Source: Karachi Stock Exchange.
New Issues
10.    Since FY78 their have been about 13 new issues a year with an average issue
value of Rs 165 million which were oversubscribed by 350%. In FY84, the value of
new issues accelerated sharply to Rs 1.1 billion from Rs 564 million in FY83
reflecting a general buoyancy in the stock market. The new issue activities in
the past were sluggish (Table 3). This could probably be attributed to:
Ci) Relatively high cost of equity finance as compared to the
cost of debt from both DFIs and NCBs.  Apart from dilution
of control which equity issues entail high dividend payments
relative to the cost of long-term local currency debt finance,
which was reduced further because interest was tax deductible.
Also, dividend received by shareholders, who also tend to be
the owners and managers, was subject to individual income tax.
This disincentive has been adequately offset by the measures
taken in the FY86 budget (para. 16). These include lowering
the corporate tax rate for the listed companies from 50% to 40%
and full tax exemption on dividends received by individuals from
the listed companies. Previously, the exemption was limited to
a maximum of Rs 15,000 in the case of private companies; and
(ii) Concentration of considerable private investment activity
in recent years in small and medium-sized industries, whose
issued capital amounted to less than Rs 10 milLion.



ANUEX 4
-69-                            Page  6
Table 3: New Issues Floated on Karachi Stock Exchange 1/
Amount Offered                      Subscription Multiple
No. of        for              Total          (Subscription received
Year    Issues    Subscription       Subscription           times offer)
(Rs million)     (Rs million)
FY78       9             41               .342                 8.3
FY79      16            *91                485                 5.3
FY80      12            378 2/             649                 1.7
FY81       7             49                198                 4.1
FY82      12            109.               321.                3.0
FY83      12             77                564                 7.3
FY84      20            297              1,056                17.0
FY85      16            280                806                 3.5 31
1/ Excludes Rights and Bonds Issues.-
2/ Includes State Enterprise Mutual Fund of Rs 280 million.
3/ Provisional figures;
Source: KSE and SBP.
Underwriting
11.     Underwriting activities in Pakistan are carried out mainly by BEL, ICP,
NDFC, Pak-Kuwait, Pak-Libya, and Pak-Saudi. NIT maintains a preemptive option to
take up 20% of all public issues and a small reserve quota is kept for employees.
Although they can form underwriting consortia, NCBs have been rfluctant to do so.
They are increasingly seen as an alternative source of longer-term debt finance.
There have been very few situations where the underwriters have sought the support
of stockbroker partnerships. Underwriting commissions are fixed by CCI and do not
vary with size or risk of the issue. The present rate is set at 2-1/2Z with a
further 2-1/2% payable on actual take-up by the underwriters. The level of over-
subscription for new issues, shown in para. 10 above, masks one under-subscription
in FY83 two in FY84, and four in FY85. Apart from the paucity of new issues,
another possible explanation for over-subscription in the case of existing com-
panies is that the issue price set by CCI provides for an almost certain capital
gain, whereas shares of new companies are always priced at par with CCI employing
a formula to set the issue price for established companies at half-way between the
par value and asset break-up value. Reserves may, however, be capitalized by
allotment of bonus shares, although public companies are required to maintain
minimum 25Z free reserves.
Role of Capital Market in Financing Industry
12.     Table 4 shows that during FY83-FY85 the stock market was a marginal source
of funds for industry. While FY84 was an exceptional year with a surge in new
issues, particularly right issues, the stock market financed about 4.5Z of private
industrial investment during FY83-FY85. However, there is scope for greater
mobilization of resources through equity issues. GOP's recently introduced tax
concessions for companies listed on the stock exchange should have a positive



-70-                            ANNEX 4
-70-                            Page  7
impact and appreciably increase the proportion of private industrial investment
financed through new issues; estimated to rise to around 7Z during the next two
years (a 50X increase). As the stock market broadens in range and size, and
becomes more efficient, there should be greater awareness of listed shares as an
investment avenue leading to increased financing of industry through equity
issues.
13.     On the basis of industrial term lending by- DFIs and BCBs during FY81-FY83
(Rs 9 million) and debt:equity financing of 60:40, it is estimated that Rs 1.5
billion in new equity will be offered for public subscription during FY86-FY87.=
This excludes rights issues, shares to be disinvested by the government and shares
to be offered as a consequence of conversions of private companies to public
status.
TabLe 4
FY83      FY84       FY85
e --Rs million-
Right Shares                             202        509         75
Public Offers                             77        297        230
Direct Investment in Listed              279        806        305
Shares (A)                              =      .             =
Sponsors Equity Listed                    60        358        345
Bonus Shares                             218        298        177
Debt Converted to Equity                  18         15          9
Indirect Investment in Listed            296        671        531
Shares                                 =
Gross Addition to Listed Equity          575      1,477        836
=:
Gross Private Industrial               5,264      6,540     7,848 1/
Investment (B)                        -        -          -
Direct Investment in Listed
Shares as Z of Gross Private
Industrial Investment (AIB)           5.3Z      12.3Z      3.9Z
1/ Mission's estimate.
New Corporate Law
14.     In 1984, GOP passed "The Companies Ordinance, 1984" to replace the 1913
Companies Act, that had constituted the core of Pakistani corporate legislation
supported by an assortment of other enactments, most of which were also substan-
tially repealed. The stated objectives of the new Act seeks the achievement of
healthy growth of corporate enterprises, protection of investors and creditors,
promotion of investment, development of the economy, and matters arising out of or
connected therewith. Greater shareholder control has been attempted through
provisions for more open management, making it obligatory for managements to
supply more detailed information on the Company's working and accounts, limits on
management authority in sensitive areas, protection of minority shareholders and



ANNEX 4
-71-                           Page  8
creditors and more effective supervision and control. Stringent provisions have
been made to prevent abuse of power by the directors through the holding of more
frequent company meetings, and prescription of quorum requirements for company and
board meetings. Criminal liability of the directors and relevant corporate
officers has been stipulated for non-compliance with a variety of provisions.
Shareholder(s) having an aggregate 20X equity interest or creditors with an equiv-
alent exposure to a company can seek judiciaL reorganization of the company's
affairs, including transfer of shares between shareholders and termination of the
company's contracts with directors or its chief executive officee.
15.     Among its controversial provisions is the power acquired by the Government
under Section 296 to declare a company facing financial or operational problems "a
sick company" and to cause a plan for rehabilitation to be prepared. Once
approved by the Government the plan would be implemented as enforceable, final,
and binding. The plan could include capital reorganization, loan restructuring,
acquisition of shares of the management group, alterations in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association, and appointment/removal of Directors. Corporate manage-
ments are viewing this as an arrogation of arbitrary power since "financial or
operational problems" that could give rise to, this action has not been defined.
There is considerable apprehension in corporate circles by the power conferred on
the Corporate Law Authority under Section 295 to replace the management with an
Administrator if more than 60% of its creditors represent inter alia that:
creditors or shareholders are being defrauded; or the shareholders are being
deprived of a reasonable return; or the market value of its shares falls below 75Z
of par value; or its debt:equity deteriorates beyond 9:1 and current ratio slips
below 0.5:1; or if any industrial unit owned by the Company operates only
partially/intermittently over twb years; or that accumuLated losses have wiped
out more than 60Z paid-up capital. At the same time, powever, it is clear that*
unless the Companies Ordinance is implemented fairly and pragmatically with
respect to areas where the Government has assumed discretionary powers, a climate
of uncertainty could Lead to lower levels of investment activity, and closer
corporate control instead of broadbasing of corporate ownership. Up to now, all
indications are that GOP would administer the Ordinance flexible to ensure con-
tinued growth of the private sector.
Proposals for Capital Market Development
16.     There is considerable potential for expanding the stock market in
Pakistan, as evidenced by the fact that at present there are more than 10,000
private companies but only 353 listed companies.  As part of the preparation for
the second IIC project, the Bank Group discussed with GOP measures to strengthen
capital markets in Pakistan. The Government's reaction has been positive and it
announced a number of important measures in the FY86 Budget. These include:
(i) reduction in the corporate tax for listed companies from 50% to 40%
(privately held companies are taxed at 55%);
(ii) income taz exemption on dividends paid by listed companies;
(iii) a decision to allow private investment companies (local or foreign
owned) to perform all banking functions except deposit taking;



-72-                          uANNE  4
Page 9
(iv) disinvestment of shares valued at Rs 2 billion of shares in public
sector companies through secondary offerings in FY86; and
(v) introduction of bearer bonds in foreign and local currency to attract
"black money" and mobilize additional resources.
The tax concessions and the increase in the supply of shares should have a posi-
tive impact on the stock market. Bearer bonds which can be traded in the stock
exchange and new private sector investment companies should also expand the range
of financing sources for the corporate sector in Pakistan. The supply of new
shares is aLso expected to increase sharply as most bridge loans are now ripe for
conversion into equity (para. 13).
17.     While the measures taken by GOP are significant, they need to be comple-
mented by steps to encourage a smoother functioning of the stock exchanges,
promote more market-oriented corporate finance services in the pricing and dis-
tribution of securities, and develop a market for short-term corporate papers.
There are a number of -additional measures which GOP should consider to improve the
efficiency and expand the range of capital markets in Pakistan. These include:
(i) issuing of bearer shares to attract "black money"; (ii) freeing of underwrit-
ing activities; (iii) introduction of market pricing for new share issues;
(iv) introduction of short-term corporate commercial papers;-and (v) licensing of
private commercial banking. The Government has referred these proposals to the
recently established Deregulation Commission and there are good prospects that
some or all of these measures will be implemented during FY86-FY87. GOP has also
agreed to KSE's request to IFC for technical assistance to modernize its
operations, which will be financed from the technical assistance component of the
first IIC project.
18.    At present, the corporate sector has no financial instruments to channel
"black money" directly into productive investment. The issuing of bearer shares,
a class of common stock in bearer form with the same dividend and residual asset
entitlements as common stock, would direct "black money" toward equity investment
and serve to help correct the undercapitalized structure of Pakistan's corporate
sector. Underwriting is presently carried out by a few syndicates of DFIs and
banks, with fees determined by a rigid administrative schedule bearing no relation
to market conditions. Freeing underwriting should expand the number of under-
writers and subject fees to market competition. New issue pricing is not deter-
mined by the market but by the CCI. New issues are priced through a formula
whereby existing owners share one-half of the difference between the company's net
asset value and par value. This acts as a strong disincentive for conversion of
private to public companies since existing owners perceive new floatations as
expensive giveaways and are not permitted to set share prices in accordance with
market perceptions of the company's prospects and risk potential. Short-term
marketable commercial papers issued by established and profitable companies would
provide an additional source of funding outside banking systems and lead to a
secondary money market which would add depth to the capital market and improve its
allocative role. The introduction of private domestic banking would add a strong
element of competition for NCBs and would expand the range and efficiency of
financial services offered. As an extension of GOP's decision to allow private
investment companies, the setting up of venture capital companies should also be
encouraged.



-73-                          ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTLXAL INVIESTHNT CREDIT (tIC) PROJECT
Industrial Develvetmnt Bank of Pakistan (IDMP)
Income Statesomts (FYMl-MYSS)
(Rs mi'.ion)
FY81     FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85
(Prov.)
INCOME
Interest income                       190       204      229       285      346
Other income                            20       23        32       45        81
Total income                        210       Z27      261       330      427
EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings                142       157      153       190      285
Administrative expenses                29        34       37        49       53
Other expenses including
provisions for doubtful debt         25        19      -30        41       60
Total expenses                      196       210      220       280      371
scm       =         =
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                       14       17       41        50       56
Less:  Provision for taz                9        11        7        10        11
Net income                               5        6       34        40       45
FINANCIAL RATIOS
(Z average total assets)
Total income                         10.3      10.3     10.3      11.0     11.2
Financial ezpenses                    6.9       7.1      6.1       6.3      6.8
Spread                                3.4       3.2      4.3       4.7      4.4
Administrative expenses               1.4       1.5      1.5       1.6      1.4
NET INCOME                            0.2       0.3      1.3       1.3      1.2
Yet profit/Average total networth    3.0        3.1     16.0      16.2     16.0
Source: IDBP.



-74-                              ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTKMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
Balance Sheets (FYS1-FY85)
(Rs million)
FY81      FY82       FY83      FY84      FY85
ASSETS                                                                      (Prov.)
Liquid assets                         31        44        32         33        44
Investments                          75         75        91        107       187
Loan portfoLio                    2,058      2,304     2,658      3,214     4,136
Less: Provisions                 (178)      (194)     (178)      (151)     (203)
Loan portfolio (net)              1,880      2,110     2,480      3,203     4,164
Other assets                          90       115        92        100       156
Total assets a/                   2,076      2,344     2,695      3,303     4,320
LIABILITIES AND NETWORTH
Current liabilities b/              143        107       142        102       154
Deposits                            125        125       115        215       534
Borrowings
Foreign currency                    512        554       652        758       914
Foreign currency loans
repayable in rupees                89         84        81         81        80
State Bank - industrial loans       325        479       653        821     1,032
State Bank - cash credits           511        617       509        499       470
Federal government loans            151        151       252        310       403
Others                                3          3        15        206       381
1,591     1,888     2,162      2,675     3,280
Other liabilities                    25         28        48         47        47
Paid-in capital                     100        100       100        100       157-
Reserves                             92         96       128        164       148
Total networth                    192        196       228        264       305
Total liabilities and networtb   2,076       2,344     2,695      3,303     4,320
=__   ==
Debt:equity ratio cJ                4.5        5.6       4.1        4.2       4.2
a/ Net of assets and liabilities in Bangladesh.
b/ Excluding current maturity.
c/ Including subordinated debts.
Source: IDBP.



UA.AEX 5
-75-                              Page 3 of 7
-PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDIP)
Projected Income Statements (FY85-FY90)
(Re million).
FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90
INCOME
Interest on loans                          453       587      723       869     1005
Interest on short-term investment           36        59       80        95      120
Fees & other income                         62        68        75       83       91
Total income                             551       714      178    1,047    1,216
EXPENSES
Interest on F.C. loans                      80                                   182
Other financial expenses                   256       334      447      536        629
Administrative expenses                     61        70.       81      93        107
Provision for doubtful debt                 74        94       96      108       106
Total expenses                           471       598      750      893   -1024
Profit before tax                           80       116       128     154       192
Taxation                                    24        46        73      88       110
Net profit                                  56        70       55       66        7
_-                 =        -
FTNANCIAL RATIOS
(Z average total assets)
Gross income                              11.8      11.5     11.7      11.8     11.8
Financial expenses                         6.9      '7.0      7.6       7.8      7.9
Spread                                     4.4       4.5      4.1       4.0      4.0
Administrative expenses                    1.2       1.1       1.1      1.0       1.0
Net profit                                 1.2       1.1      0.7       1.7      0.8
Provisions/Year-end portfolio              6.2       6.7      7.2       7.7      8.2
Net profit/Average total networth         16.9      17.9     12.3      13.2     14.4
Source: IDBP.



ANNEX 5
-76-                              Page 4 of 7
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTHENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Industrial Dmvelopient Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
Projected BaLance Sheets (FY86-PY90)
(as million.)
FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90
ASSETS
Cash & bank balances                          50        59       67        74        82
Accrued interest & other assets              127       127      127       127       127
Investments                                  548       763      894    1,205    1,544
Local currency loans                       2,755    3,502    4,000    4,523    4,990
Foreign currency loan* & guarantees        1,718    2,046    2,492    2,941    3,317
Working capital loans                        550       750    1,000    1,300    1,500
Total loan portfolio                     5,023    6,298    7,492    8,764    9,807
Less:  Provisions for doubtful
debts                               (277)    (371)    (467)    (575)    (681)
Net loan portfolio                         4,746  . 5,927.   7,025    8,189    9,126
Fixed assets (net)                            22        26       30        34-       38
Amount recoverable from Govt.                  1         1        1         1         1
Contingent rupee assets                        2         2        2         2         2
Total assets                            5,496    6,905    8,146    9,632   10,920
-    -    -=   =2
LIABILITIES & NETWORTH
Commercial deposits                          684      959    1,259    1,584    1,934
Accounts payables                            140       126      151       177      200
Provision for income tax                     (9)       (9)      (9)       899       (9)
Rupee borrowings                           2,706    3,413    3,886    4,428    4,965
Rescheduled borrowings                       300      401       401       401      401
Foreign currency borrowing and
guarantees                               1,168    1,443    1,836    2,218    2,519
P.T.C.                                       150       150      150       300      300
Total L.T. borrowings                   4,324    5,407    6,273    7,347    8,185
Share capital                                157       157      157       157      157
Reserves                                     190      249       293       348      413
Special development assistance fund            9        9         9         9         9
P.T.C. redemption fund                        -         6        12        18       30
Networth                                   356      421       471       532      609
Contingent rupee liabilities                   1         1        1         1         1
Total liabilities & networth            5,496    6,905    8,146    9,632   10,920
l         -=   zS===          -         _
Debt:equity ratio                            3.8      4.1       4.7       4.7      5.0



ANNEX 5
-77-                              Page 5 of 7
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
Projected Cash Flow Statements (FY86-FY90)
(Rs million)
FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89       FY90
SOURCES
Net profit                                80       116       128        150       192
Add:   Non-cash transaction
-- Depreciation                    2          2         2         2          2
Provision for losses             74         94        96       108        106
Less:  Income :redited to profit
and loss account but not
received                       (102)      (105)      (124)     (130)      (123)
Add:  Expenditure debitqc  to                  ,
profit & loss account
but not paid                       57       *62         39        40        40
CoLlection of advances (Prin.)          235        260       294       363        440
Income tax paid                          (24)      (46)      (73).     (88)      (110)
Interest expenses                       336        434       573       692        811
Available for debt servicing (A)         658       817       953     1,141      1,356
Drawn down on borrowings
.cal currency                     339        482        600       664        658
-  Foreign currency                    364        402        514       546        503
-  IDA credit for SIRD                 288        346         -         -          -
Increase in comm. deposits              150        275        300       325        350
Increase in industriaL deposits          20         20         20        20         20
Recovery of working capital loan        289        550        750     1,000      1,300
P.T.C. issues                           150         -          -        150         -
Total                               2,258      2,892      3,119     3,841     4,189
APPLICATIONS
Repayment of borrowing
-- Local currency                       85        121        127       122        122
Foreign currency                       70         88        121       159        203
Interest expenses                       336        434        573       692        811
Required for debt servicing (B)         491        643        821       973      1,136
Disbursement of loans
-- Local currency                      339        482       600        664       658
-- Foreign currency                    364        402        514       541       503
-- Working capital loan                550        750      1,000     1,300     1,500
-- IDA credit for SIRD                 288        346        -          -         -
-ayment of other liabilities             39         39         39        39         39
Increase in fixed assets                  6          6          6         6          6
Increase in investment                  175        215        131       311       339
Total uses                          2,252      2,883     3,111      3,834     4,181
jurpLus/(Deficit)                         6          9          8         1          8
Opening cash & bank balance              44         50         59        39         74
Closing cash & bank balance              50         59         67        41         82
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (A/B)       1.3       1 .2        1.1       1.2        1.2



ANNEX 5
-78-                             Page 6 of 7
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
Analysis of Amounts Due and Recoveries (FY81-FY85)
(Rs million)
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
A. Opening Balance                       1,811      863   1,097     993      864
B. Amount Fallen Due:
i)  Against past dues                 150      73       93      85      91
ii)  Current                           207     314      372     455     431
iii)  Total Fallen Due                  357     387      465     539      573
C. Foreign Exchange Adjustment            (150)    119       53        1      44
D. Total Dues (A+B+C)                    2,018   1,369   1,615   1,533   1,485
Ew Cash Collection:
i)  Arrears                           115      89       98      89      64
ii)  Current                            97     159      216     272     361
iii)  Total                             212     248      314     361     425
F. Rescheduling/Adjustment                 943       24     262     303      200
C. Closing Balance (D-E-F)                 863   1,097   1,039      869      860
RATIOS {Z):
i. Cash collection-current                  27      41       47      50       63
to total Fallen due
E(ii) as Z to B
ii. Cash collection arrears                   6       10       9       9        7
to opening balance
E(i) as Z to A
iii. Cash collection as Z to                  11       18      20      24       29
total dues (E as X to D)
iv. Rescheduling and adjustment              47       2       16      20       13
as X to total dues
(F as Z to D)
v. Total collection rescheduling            58      20       36      43       42
and adjustment as Z to total
dues (E+F as Z to D)
vi. Cash collection current                  47       51      59      60       75
as X to amount fallen due
current E(ii) as Z to B(ii)



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 7
-79-
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
Analysis of Amounts Due and Recoveries (FY86-FY9O)
(Rs million)
FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90
A. Opening Balance                        883       848      861       846      819
B. Amount Fallen Due:
i)  Against past dues                 93      108       135      166       197
ii)  Current                          572      655       793      953      1109
iii)  Total fallen due                 665      763       928    1,119    1,306
C. Foreign Exchange Adjustment              -        -        -         -        -
D. Total Dues (A+B+C)                   1,548    1,611    1,789    1,965    2,125
E. Cash Collection:
i) Arrears                            79      109       148      181       233
ii)  Current                          421      491       595      715       832
iii)  Total                            500      600       743      896      1065
F. Rescheduling/Adjustment                200       150      200'      250      300
C. Closing Balance (D-E-F)                848       861      846       819      760
RATIOS (Z):
i. Cash collection-current                 63       64        64        64       64
to total fallen due
E(ii) as Z to B.
ii. Cash collection as Z to                 32        37       42        46       50
total dues (E as Z to D)
iii. Cash collection arrears                  9        13       17        21       28
to opening balance
(E(i) as Z to Al
iv. Rescheduling and adjustment             13         9       11        13       14
as X to total dues
(F as Z to D).
v. Total collection rescheduling           45        47       53        58       64
and adjustment as Z to total
dues (E+F as Z D)
vi. Cash collection current                 74        75       75        75       75
as Z to amount fallen due
current [E(ii) as Z to B(ii)]



-80-
A^RM 6
Page 1 o1 4
ISCOND DDSTXIAL INVSm  UTC  CEDMIT tIIC) PiOJECT
National Develomment Finance Corporation MMDP)
Coouar atLs aleenee Sbeets (1980-1984)
(1 mllion)
Current Assets
Liquid asset. &/                      305       252     211      377      540
Acerued interemt on inveaetnt            9       12      17       75       50
Accrued interest and charge on loan    68        67     117      125      209
Depoeit and prepaymant                          -A 6             i6       113.
Iuvesuutnt (at cost)
Equity       ,                          53       56      56       60      103
Goverment bonds and loans, treasury
deposit and debentures               15      512      5Z4   1      394  h49
*                  -        L       568      580 ~~nL1.454    6
Principal                           1,904   2,303   3,276    3,741    5,156
aterest in arrears                     26       57       63      129      123
kMa   Prowi ion for doubtful lon       (16)    (21                6      cM)o4g 11)
1914    2.239   3,2.5   3 804   5,173
Fixed assets (net of depreciation)        I        4    __0         381   8.2
TOTAL ASSZTS                          2.571    3.148   4,251    5.939    6,767
Liabilities and Bcmitv
Crent LiabilitieJ i-
Accrued interest and expenes          Ill      120     170      235      290
Sundry creditors                       a        9       10       16       12
Provision for dividends                13      13       26       36       43
Others                                6,       -a       40       35      -
ii       15_2    246      m        3a
Tim deposits Si
Less than 12 months maturity          992    1.134   1,640    2,722   3,011
more than 12 months maturity          335     434      368      379    _63
1,327    1-568    08      30 aO    337*
Borrowings
Foreign curr&en                       347      394      624      834      978
Local currenc                         409       522     785      880    1,131
Boads                                  -    _          -0       ..0 20    200
Networth
Paid-ia capital                       132      132     132      132      132
Statutory reserve                    126       169     229      310      405
Continency reserve                    92       96       91      102      100
Rend redinption resrve              ---         15      29-      58       87
30  411      498      602    __M
TOTAL LxIxLTTE  AMD NEIO7RU            2.751    3.148   4,251    5,939    6.767
CGuarantees                              6.    100        136       99       81
Debt:equity ratio                       3.3      3.8      4.1      4.0      3.6
SI  Liquid asets corises cash on hand and in bank.
h    z eludes ecrent saturity of deposits and borrois.p
qi Deposits with fixed mturities.
(



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)
Comparative Income Statements (1980-1984)
(Rs million)
1980    2.981      1982     1983      1984
Income
Interest on loans                         187      221       302      378      484
Other loan charges                          9       16        20       30        50
investment income and interest
on bank deposits                   -    47        47        88      192      177
Profit on sale of investment               10        6         6        7        -
Dividend income                             2 -      3         4       12        14
Total income                              255      293       420      619       725
Expenses
Interest                                  157      189       270      414      464
Comitment fees and other charges            2        1         5        5         7
Provision for doubtful loans                6       11        23       22       42
Salaries                                    5        7        10       16       26
Other administrative expenses               5        8        13       22        38
Total ezpenses                            175      216       321      479       577
Net profit                                 80       77        99      140      148
Financial Ratios (Z)
Net profit/average total assets           3.4      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.3
Net profit/average netuorth             25.3      20.2     22.0      25.7     22.3
Admin. exp./avg. loan portfolio           0.5      0.7       0.8      1.1      1.4
Admin. exp./avg. total assets             0.4      0.5       0.6      0.7      1.0



-82-
AM= L
Page 3 of 4
SlCORD NDDUITL INVTI1 CREDI? (TIC) PROJCT
National Daveloument Finance Cornoration (UDPC)
Proigeted Balanee Sbcet (198O1989)
(as million)
(Actual)
Assets~ ~ ~~ Vel
Currenlt AmetIL
Liqid assets j/                        540     55      62       58    133       59
Aecrid intereit on invesbant            50     50       S0      50      S0      SO
Accrud interest and charges oan loan   218    247    323    416        512     609
Deposit and prepaymnt                  113   124        1     130      m.    14
IZnestme  (at cost)
Equity                                 103    130    1S0    10       205      230
Goverent bonds and lons. treasury
deposit and debentures               497 lQ         1 000    1-325L   1,525
600 1.130    .75 1-380   1-30 1-5
loon Portfolio
Principal   -                        5,158  6,781   8,936  11,17  13,415  15,840
Interest in arrears                    114    151 -  148      164     157      186
T.: Provision for doubtful lona   (flO8   (149   _JL)  (19j)  (4f376)   (47)
5.164  683 8.870 -11,060  13.196  -1-. 55 
Fixed asets (net of depreciation)         82    152     173    190       196     197
TOTAL ASSM                             6.767  8,482  10,778  13,284 15,752  18,361
Liabilities and Eloitv
Current LIabilities k/
Accrued interest and  zpenaee         290    350      400  . 400      S00     550
Sundry creditors                       12     S0      60      70       80      90
Proision for dividends                 43    43       53      63       73      73
Others                                 _S 30          5       60      _a       70Z
ui~~~ ~~   A1foit SJMI                                        fl 
Less than 12 months mturity         36011  3,145   3,US   3,910   4,497   5,171
Moe  tha  12 months mturity           36      S5      615.l~    690.2R  793.fl  9..12
3374  3.710   4.100  4.60   5.Z90   6.083
Borrow 
Foreign eurreacy                       978  1,446   2.151   2,943   3,775   4,635
Local currency                       1,131  1,532   2.030   2,618  3,143   3.795
Donds                                  200    S00    841   1A    1.110         976
2.309  3.478   5-0Z   6,677   8.028   9.406
Netvorth
Paid-in capital                       132    132    182    232    282         282
Statutory reserve                     405    514    645    820   1,041   1.305
Contingency reserve                   100   115    113    141         208     303
Bond redemption reserve             . 7    1L5        1U.  __IL       18S     199
724   876   1JS$   J.67   17 1.6   2.089
TOTAL  LIA3JLXTIS AND UITPOIR          6,767  8,537  10,778  13,284 15,752  18,361
Guarantees                                81   100       120    130      140     150
Debt:eqnity ratio                        3.8  4.7:1   5.2:1   5.4:1   5.2:1      5:1
u Liquid assets cmprises cseh oon band and in bank.
Ei Excludes current matrity of deposits and borrowings.
   Deposits with fied mturities.



-83-                                ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)
Projected Income Statements (1985-1986)
(Rs million)-                    S
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Income                              (Actual)
Interest on loans                      484     742      969   1,249   1,538   1,829
Other loan charges                      50      42       46      49      54       58
Investment income and interest
on bank deposits                     i77     144     130      142     163     184
Profit on sale of investment            -       -        -       -       -        -
Dividend income                         14      21       26      30      35       39
Total income                           725     949   1,171   1,470   1,790   2,110
Expenses
Interest                              464      643     809   1,008   1,218   1,434
Commitment fees and other charges        7       5       5        5       5        5
Provision for doubtful loans            42      41      65       77      85      99
Salaries                                26      35      40       46      53      61.
Other administrative expenses           38      47      54       62      71       82
Total expenses                         577     771     973   1,198   1,432   1,681
Net profit                             148     178      198     272     358     429
Cash dividend                           26      26      36       46      56       56
Financial Ratios (Z)
Net profit/average total assets        2.3     2.3     2.1      2.3     2.5     2.5
Net profit/average networth           22.3.   22.3    20.2    22.2    23.2    22.5
Admin. exp./avg. loan portfolio        1.4     1.4      1.2     1.1     1.0      1.0
Admin. exp./avg. total assets          1.0     1.1      1.0     0.9     0.9      0.8



-84-                             m cAN     7
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMET CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC)
Income Statements (1980-1984)
(Ru million)
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984
Incou                                        -
Interest income                              190      174      205      258       316
Commitment fees                                9       25       25       48        23
Income - short-term investments               12       12       10        10       10
-        Income - equity investments                    9        15       20       22        43
Total income                          220       226      260      338       392
Expenses
Interest on borrovings                      151       155      183      222       254
Comitment fees                                -        -        -        -         -
Administrative expenses                       21       19       21        25       22
Depreciation                                  -        -        -          1        1
Provision for doubtful debts                   4        2        9        20       16
Portfolio write-offs                         -         -        -         11       20
Total expenses                        176       176     ,213      279       313
Net income                                    s4 50             47        59       79
Less:  income taxes                         (6)     (12)     (15)     (16)      (17)
Net income (after taxes)                      38       38       32       43        62
Dividend                                     -         -        11        14       16
Ratios
Met profit/avg. networth (X)                9.0      10.0      '.3      9.0      12.6
Net profit/avg. total assets (Z)             1.1      1.3      1.0       1.3      1.7
Long term debt/equity ratio                 5.4       5.1      5.1      5.9       6.3
Admin. ezp./avg. total assets               0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7       0.6
Admin. ezp.lavg. loan portfolio (Z)          1.2      1.1      1.0       1.1      0.8
Source: PICIC.



-85-                     ~~~~~~ANNME 7
-85-                              Page 2 of 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC)
Balance Sheets.(1980-1984) 1/
(Rs million)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984
Assets
Cash and short term deposits                   97       80       115      120       123
Securities                                     19       14        7        20        21
Sundry current assets                         25        23        70      103       115
Accrued interest                             507       535       570      645       637
Loan portfolio (gross)                     1,793    1,811    2,425    2,639    3,167
Less:  reserves                            (94)      (99)    (104)    (224)    (238)
Loan portfolio (net)                       1,699    1,712    2,321    2,415    2,929
Equity investments                            98        97      104       105       110
Fixed assets (net)                              1        1*       1        4         5
Total assets                               2,446    2,462    3,188    3,412    3,940
Liabilities and NetWorth
Current liabilities                            74       87      221       164       172
Long term borrowings                       2,001    1,985    2,484    2,780    3,255
Total Liabilities                        2,075    2,072    2,705    2,944    3,427
Paid-up capital                               92        92      110       110       110
Reserves-retained earnings                   279       298      373       358       403
Networth                                   371       390      483       468      513
Total liabilities and networth             2,446    2,462    3,188    3,412    3,940
Long term debt:equity ratio                  5.4       5.1      5.1       5.9       6.3
1/ Assets and liabili.ties in East Pakistan are excluded.
Source: PICIC.



-86-                              ANNEX 7
Page 3 of'4
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTHENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Pakistan Indlistrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC)
Projected Income Statements (1985-1988)
(Rs million)
1985     1986      1987     1988
Income
Interest income                              400      487       642      783
Commitment fees                               43       55        58       59
Income-equity investments                     18       19        20       22
Total income                           461       561      720       864
Expenses
Interest-short term borrowings                91       99       131      189
Interest-Long term borrowings                176     ,211       261      313
Commitment fees                                5        6         6        7
Administrative expenses and depreciation    32         34        37       .40
Provision for doubtful debts                  15       21        28       30
Portfolio write-offs                           5        .6        7        8
Total expenses                         324       377      470       587
Net income                                   13-      184       250      277
Less:  income taxes                        (60)     (84)    (116)    (130)
Net income (after taxes)                      77      100       134      147
Dividend                                      17       17        17       17
Ratios
Net profit/average net worth (Z)            14.3     16.5      18.9     17.6
Net profit/average total assets (Z)          1.8      2.0       2.1      1.9
Admin. exp./avg. total assets                0.8      0.7       0.7      0.5
Admin. exp./avg. loan portfolio (Z)          1.0      0.9       0.8      0.7
Source: PICIC.



-87-                              ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC)
Projected Balance Sheets (1985-1988)
(Rs million)
1985     1986      1987     1988
Assets
Cash                                         216       319      371       505
Securities                                    24        -        25        -
Sundry current assets                         35         1       36         1
Accrued interest                             808       938    1,076    1,278
Loan portfolio (gross)                     3,490    4,268    5,543    6,574
Less:  reserves                         (147)    (173)    (208)    (246)
Loan portfolio (net)                       3,343   *4,095    5,335    6,328
Equity investments                           105       105      10'       105
Fixed assets (net)                            14        21      .21        21
Total assets                               4,545    5,479    6,969    8,238
Liabilities and Networth
Current liabilities                          226       388      859    1,110
Foreign borrowings                         2,058    2,517    3,141    3,705
Local borrowings                           1,695    1,925    2,205    2,532
Total liabilities                    3,979    4,830    6,205    7,347
Paid-up capital                              110       110      110       110
Reserves and retained earnings               456       539      654       781
Networth                               566       649      764       891
TotaL liabilities and networth             4,545    5,479    6,969    8,238
Ratios
Long-term debt:equity ratio                  6.6       7.0      7.0       7.0
Debt service coverage ratio
1/ Assets and liabilities in East Pakistan are excluded.
Source: PICIC.



-88-                                ANNEX 8
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT 1/
Projected Disbursements 2/
(USs million)
Credit              T.A.             Total               Z  3/
FY87
Si                7.3               0.2                 7.5                5
S2               14.8               0.2                15.0               15
22.1-              0.4               22.5               15
FY88
S1               10.0               0.2                10.2               22
S2               11.9               0.4                12.3               30
21.9               0.6               22.5               30
FY89
Si               14.5               0.4                14.9               40
S2               14.5               0.6                15.1               50
29.0               1.0     *         30.0               50
FY90
Si               18.5                -                 18.5               63
S2               19.0                                  19.0'              75
37.5_-                               37.0               75
FY91
Si                7.5                                   7.5               80
S2                7.5                                 .7.5                85
15.0                              *  15.0'              85
FY92
Si                7.5                -                  7.5               90
S2                7.5                -                  7.5               95
15.0               -                 15.0               95
FY93
Si                7.5                -                  7.5              100
S2                -_                                   ___
7.5               -                  7.5              100
TOTAL           148.0               2.0               150.0
1/  Assuming that the loan becomes effective on May 1, 1986.
2/  The regional profile for Pakistan indicates a 7- to 9-year disbursement
period. However, with six PFIs, disbursement is anticipated to be
considerably faster.
3/  Percentages are cumulative.



-89-                                  AN   9
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. The Manufacturing and FinanciaL Sector
1. Sixth Five Year Plan (FY83 - FY87)
2. Pakistan - Industrial Sector Strategy Paper (November 1, 1983)
3. Review of Pakistan's Financial System and Impact on Inudstrial
Investment, IBRD Working Paper, July 1982
4. State Bank of Pakistan, Annual Report (1983-1984)
5. A Comparative Analysis of the Nationalized Commercial Banks and Foreign
Banks Operating.in Pakistan, June 1984
6. The Islamization of Pakistan's Financial Sector, P. Popiel and I. Dalla,
December 1984.
7. Capital Markets, Khalid Mirza, IFC.
B. Project Related Reports and Documnts
8. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
9. HBL's Annual Report (1984)
10. EBL's Policy and Strategy Statement
11. MCB's Annual Report (1984)
12. MCB's Policy and Strategy Statenent
13. UBL's Annual Report (1984)
14. UBL's Policy and Strategy Statement
15. IDBP - Analysis of Operations and Pinancial Position
16. IDBP's Annual Report (1983-1984)
17. IDBP's Policy and Strategy Statements
18. NDFC - Analysis of Operations and Financial Position
19. NDFC's Annual Report (1984)
20. NDFC's Policy and Strategy Statement
21. PICIC - Analysis of Operations and Financial Position
22. PICIC's Annual Report (1984)
23. PICIC's Policy and Strategy Statements



IRBD 16248R
\                 5_H NHINA
PAKISTAN                                              I
-3e 
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
   CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                       q-
-     RAILWAYS
*    AIRPORTS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
__  RIVERS -                                                 -   d
AFGHANISTAN                                                     A B 1?  r  ,
REPUBLIC OF                 PI >    t        |       /
IRAN                                                                       0 t   4 eO Wo    20D  00    C00
3#>  <  9  S <llxN D <.- o 5D lX f~~~~~~~~~~~             50    W    IO    20D  25D
. ~ i. .                _     c f e                                      dnr77
END



