Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqport No. 13124
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2648-PAK/CREDIT 1646-PAK)
JUNE 10, 1994
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(annual average)
Rs per US$1.00           USS per Rs 1.00
FY83                            12.75                   0.078
FY84                            13.48                   0.074
FY85                            15.16                   0.066
FY86                            16.13                   0.062
FY87                            17.17                   0.058
FY88                            17.55                   0.057
FY89                            19.18                   0.052
FY90                           21.39                    0.047
FY91                            22.37                   0.045
FY92                            24.37                   0.041
Note:       Since January 8, 1982, the exchange rate for the rupee has been
managed with respect to a weighted basket of currencies.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACT         Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
ADB         Asian Development Bank
DER         Debt/Equity Ratio
DFIs        Development Finance Institutions
DSCR        Debt Service Coverage Ratio
FSAL        Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSDIP       Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project
GOP         Government of Pakistan
HBL         Habib Bank Limited
IDBP        Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IIC         Industrial Investment Credit
KSE         Karachi Stock Exchange
MCB         Muslim Commercial Bank
N.A.        Not applicable
n.a.        not available
NBP         National Bank of Pakistan
NCBs        National Commercial Banks
NDFC        National Development Finance Corporation
OK          Covenant complied
PBC         Pakistan Banking Council
PICIC       Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
PFIs        Participating Financial Institutions
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SBP         State Bank of Pakistan
UBL         United Bank Limited



FOR OFFICIAL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S. A.
Xtnef of Diredor.G.nwal
OpaUozu EBalnation
June 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Second Industrial
Investment Credit Project (Loan 2648-PAK/Credit 1646-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Second Industrial Investment Credit
Project a(oan 2648-PAK/Credit 1646-PAK). Parts I and m of the report were prepared by the South
Asia Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Government of Pakistan. The loan/credit was
approved on January 7, 1986. The loan component was closed on December 31, 1992 as scheduled; the
credit component for technical assistance was closed on June 30, 1992 with three years delay.
The objectives of the project were to promote private sector industrial investment by improving
the credit delivery system to ensure a stable flow of term financing to private industries, and to strengthen
the financial institutions involved in term credit to private investors.
The project's objectives were largely met; sustainability of the benefits is likely as a result of post
project financial policy reform, a strengthened prudential regulatory framework for the banking system,
and improved procedures for evaluation of creditworthiness.
The impact of the project on institutional development was modest, although the technical
assistance component was helpful in developing project appraisal skills of the commercial banks.
The project's outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory and sustainability as likely. An audit
is planned.
This doannent ha a resricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank suztio






FOR OFFICI  USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT (IIC-II)
(LOAN 2648/CREDIT 1646-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .  1
A.     Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Background .......................
B.     Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
C.    Project Design and Preparation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
D.     Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
E.     Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Objectives and Targets  .......                ..  ...  ..  ..        .   5
Shortcomings  .....................                                   .   5
F.    Project Sustainability ................. .  6
G.     Bank Performance .................... .  6
H.     Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
I.    Lessons and Recommendations ............... .  7
For Bank Performance .....  .             .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .   .  7
For Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
PART II - COMMENTS FROM THE GOVERNMENT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Improvement in Credit Delivery System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Strengthening of Term Lending Capability
of PFIs and Continuance of Institution-
Building Programme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Financing of Industrial Units .11
Assessment and Implementation of the Project   . . . . . . . . . . 11
Other Matters/Issues   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Related Loans/Credits  ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 14
Project Timetable ....................... . 15
Loan/Credit Disbursements Cumulative Estimated and
Actual Disbursements ..................... . 16
Project Implementation:   Selected Financial  Indicators   . . . . . 17
Project Results:   Major Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Use of Bank Resources ..................... . 21
A. Staff Inputs .................... . 21
B. Missions ...................... . 22
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Profile of Subprojects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Annex 2:   Sectoral Allocation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26



PREFACE
1.          This Project Completion Report (PCR) covers the Second Industrial
Investment Credit Project (IIC-II), for which Loan 2648-PAK and Credit 1646-
PAK in the respective amounts of US$148 million and SDR 2 million, totalling
the equivalent of US$150 million, were approved on January 7, 1986. The Loan
component for on-lending to private industries through eligible participating
financial institutions (PFIs) closed on December 31, 1992 as scheduled. The
credit component for technical assistance closed on June 30,-4992-1tth three
years delay. The loan has been substantially disbursed with cancellationiof
US$M331T78O.69, while a portion of the credit for technical assistance
amounting to SDR 677,717.91, was unused.
2.          The PCR's Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III were
prepared by the Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division of the
Country III Department in the South Asia Region. Part II was prepared by the
Government of Pakistan.
3.          The last supervision mission for IIC-II took place in November
1992. The PCR is based mainly on: the President's Report; the Staff Appraisal
Report; President's Reports and SARs of associated projects; Loan/Credit and
Subsidiary Loan Agreements; Supervision Reports; Annual Reports on
Implementation and Supervision; Project Correspondence Files; internal Bank
memoranda; Financial Statements and Audit Reports of PFIs; and Subproject
Files.






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT (IIC-II)
LOAN 2648/CREDIT 1646-PAK
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Obiectives and Desian.  The project aimed at supporting GOP's
efforts to promote private industrial investment and strengthen the financial
markets. To achieve this objective, the following strategies were formulated:
(a) assist in the development of a more efficient capital market so as to
increase the sources of equity finance for industry; (b) stimulate further
competition among participating financial institutions (PFIs); (c) ensure a
steady flow of term finance to private industry; and (d) continue the
institution-building programs of the PFIs. The project design consisted of
two components: (a) a line of credit (US$148 million) to enable the PFIs to
finance the foreign exchange requirements of investment projects of primarily
private medium and large enterprises; and (b) technical assistance (SDR 2
million) to strengthen the PFIs' institutional upgrading programs and improve
the efficiency of the banking system and the operations of capital markets.
2.          Prolect Imnlementation and Issues.  IIC-II started without delay.
The project was approved by the Board in January 1986, signed in February 1986
and made effective in May 1986. In addition to the five PFIs involved in IIC-
I, MCB was also selected to participate in IIC-II. Commitments were generated
smoothly. Subsequent subloan cancellations, however, occurred initially
mainly due to cross-currency volatility in the foreign exchange markets.
Thanks to restored currency alignments and an international textile boom in
the late 1980s, commitments and disbursements regained momentum after 1988 and
the loan portion of IIC-Il closed on December 31, 1992 as scheduled.
3.          Of the total actual commitments, 92% was allocated to the textile
sector. This high loan concentration to the sector was one of the outstanding
features of IIC-II. The lack of diversification of the portfolio contributed
to the deterioration of the PFIs' balance sheets. The Bank's role in ensuring
asset diversification was limited.  Exposure limits werehnot set in the loan
agreement. Asset diversification is particularly crucial for DFIs which
inherently tend to concentrate on term finance unlike commercial banks whose
portfolio is dominated by short-term lendings.
4.          It is notable that the new entrant, MCB, played the leading role
as a retailer of investment credit funds with its solid client base and sound
project appraisal capacity. MCB specialized its term lending business into a
higher market end, appraised seven subprojects with large volume, made loans
amounting to US$37.29 million representing 25% of total IIC-II loan, and
maintained the quality of its portfolio at a satisfactory level.
5.          Collection and portfolio problems were, however, a concern to most
of the PFIs. In addition to the loan concentration problem, the management
turnover at the PFIs and GOP's intefference in the management impacted the
PFIs' performance adversely.  For example, PICIC and IDBP delayed implementing
diversification programs in violation of the agreement with the Bank due to a
Lack of__ommitment by their management.  PICIC's debt service coverage and
collection ratios dropped below the respective covenants and two directors of
FfCIC were viewed as willful defaulters. IDBP violated financial covenants
particularly on collection fronts and became ineligible for IIC-II. Although
its arrears problem showed improvements in the 1990s, IDBP was never
reinstated for participation. UBL became ineligible due to one large non-



- ii -
performing loan amounting to US$6.7 million, resulting from an imprudent
project appraisal. UBL never became eligible again for IIC-II, either.
6.          TA proved to be useful and appreciated by the PFIs.  However, most
of the funds were used on an ad hoc basis without a_long-term plan or strategy
for institution building.  IDBP carried out the institutional restructuring
studies, but little follow-up for implementation was conducted by the PFI or
the Bank, largely due to an inherent incentive problem on the part of the PFI.
PICIC did not complete its organization and business review. Furthermore, PBC
did not cir-ry out any major study to improve the efficiency of the banking
system contrary to its initial plan, but only used the TA as funds for staff
training. The KSE did not use the TA funds to implement the findings of
consultants as expected. As a result, the credit component closed with three
years delay and SDR 677,717.91 was left unused.
7.          There were no serious delays in the submission of periodic audited
financial statements by the PFIs, including long form audits of DFIs. The
statements, however, did not appear to realistically reflect the PFIs'
performance given the substandard state of the accounting profession.
8.          ADB co-financed the operation through a line of credit amounting
to US$150 million for industrial financing. ADB and the Bank succeeded in
developing and monitoring mutually consistent loan conditionality.
9.          Results and Performance.  Like IIC-I, IIC-II was partly successful
in achieving its objectives, especially facilitating private investment. The
inclusion of NCBs, MCB in particular, encouraged efficient resource allocation
to productive investment activities. Expanded services by DFIs and NCBs
clearly continued to promote competition and better services to the clientele,
i.e., faster service and broader product options.
10.         However, another objective, development of efficient capital
markets, was not achieved.  Partly due to ia -i76_f supervision by the Bank,
the technical assistance program lost its momentum at a fairly early stage.
In general, the objective of institution building in terms of autonomy and
accountability was not achieved satisfactorily either although two government-
owned commercial banks were privatized. Furthermore, the lack of
diversification in the PFIs' portfolio and weak management contributed to the
deterioration in the assets quality. IDBP and UBL became ineligible.
11.         Lessons Learned and Recommendations.   A precondition for the
success of the project is viability of subprojects and soundness of PFIs._
Recurring political interference in managerial appointments and credit
decisions of PFIs have adversely affected their financial performance and
soundness. The resulting management instability and absence of professional
motivation and commitment have exacerbated disruptions in both strategic and
crisis management efforts in PFIs. Widespread public ownership of banks and
DFIs coupled with this lack of autonomy and accountability exacerbated the
problem of poor debt recovery.
12.         The Bank sent only four supervision missions during six and one
half years from effectiveness to closing of the loan. Given the serious
problem of poor collection and weak management of subprojects, the lack of the
Bank's supervision missions and inadequate monitoring of subproject approval
was a serious impediment. Local supervision through the Bank's Resident
Mission was not a perfect substitute.
13.         It is suggested that the poor assets quality problem be addressed
on at least two levels; micro and sector levels. At the micro level, it is
imperative for the top management of the PFIs to make collections one of their
top priorities. To do so, appropriate incentives must be developed within
each PFI.



- iii -
14.         In addition, GOP and the Bank should develop and support financial
sector policy reforms which will providetEhe sector with the right incentive
framework. Prerequisites for successful sector reform would include: (i)
transparent and consistent accounting, auditing, and disclosure standards
should be established and enforced to provide lenders and equity investors
reliable and timely information on which to judge borrower's creditworthiness
and risk; (ii) a transparent and effective legal framework should be developed
to assure the speedy, efficient, and impartial settlement of claims and govern
the distribution of assets in the event of bankruptcy; (iii) competit"on (or
liberalization) is important for encouraging innovation in financial services
and overall financial market efficiency. Therefore, fair, transparent, and
consistent rules of entry and exit in the financial system should be
established and enforced; (iv) privatization efforts should be accelerated to
provide financial intermediaries with autonomy and accountability; (v)
financial sector liberalization and privatization must take place within a
strong regulatory framework with a view to securing soundness of the financial
system during the reform process; and (vi) the market determination of
interest rates is an essential element of competition and efficiency in the
financial sector. Under IIC-II, ex post real interest rates for the subloan
were clearly positive, but ex post net interest margins were marginal in real
terms. In principle, with due consideration to possible abuses of market
power stemming from an oligopolistic market structure of the banking industry,
its pricing policy should be gradually set closer to market- determined level.
15.         On the sector reform front, the GOP has been carrying out
substantial policy reform including developing efficient government security
markets, privatization of two government-owned commercial banks, and
liberalization in the banking industry. The GOP is also moving toward more
indirect means of controlling monetary aggregates and has been strengthening
prudential regulations. Furthermore, ten Banking Tribunals -have been set up
to exclusively deal with recovery cases of DFIs and commercial banks. The
Bank supported GOP's initiative with an FSAL approved in 1989. The FSAL
operation supported the issuing of new prudential regulations by the SBP and
their extension to non-bank financial institutions. It also contributed to
limiting the amount of concessional credit from SBP.
16.         The above reforms initiated by the GOP and supported by the Bank
mainly under the FSAL are commendable but need to be broadened and deepened to
optimize capital accumulation in the private sector through a more efficient
financial system. Most PFIs remain financially weak and inefficient. They
remain under-capitalized and under-provisioned. To enjoy full benefits of
privatization and liberalization, credible enforcement of prudential
regulation would become critical. In the Bank's future assistance for
improving financial sector in the economy, therefore, it is recommended that
the Bank focus not only on collection targets to monitor the performance of
the PFIs, but also on broadening and deepening sector policy reforms
prescribed above. The upcoming FSDIP is expected to help the GOP meet the
above goals.



I



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT (IIC-II)
(LOAN 2648/CREDIT 1646)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Name               : Second Industrial Investment Credit Project
Loan/Credit Number:  Ln. 2648/Cr. 1646-PAK
RVP Unit              South Asia Region
Country               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Sectors               Finance and Industry
1.01        Background.  Since 1977, the GOP has given greater emphasis to the
role of private industry to achieve economic growth and efficiency. This
policy shift has been reflected in the GOP's decisions to divest a number of
industrial units which were nationalized in 1972, open restricted industries
to private sector, constrain investment in public sector manufacturing
enterprises to balancing and modernization activities, and enhance domestic
resource mobilization for investment in private industry. These policy
measures have largely succeeded in establishing market-oriented economic
growth despite fiscal and balance-of-payments deficits.
1.02        The First Industrial Investment Credit (IIC-I) aimed at improving
the efficiency of credit allocation for private industrial investment, thereby
accelerating accumulation of capital and foreign technology. The project,
amounting to US$100 million equivalent, was approved in February 1984, closed
in December 1990 and its loan amount was substantially disbursed. The PCR of
the project was finalized in June 1992.
1.03        The Second Industrial Investment Credit (IIC-II) sought to improve
the efficiency of allocation of credits for private industrial investment and
to develop a more efficient capital market.
1.04        IIC-II was approved on January 7, 1986.  It consisted of Loan
2648-PAK and Credit 1646-PAK in the respective amounts of US$148 million and
SDR 2 million totalling US$150 million equivalent.  The credit component for
technical assistance closed on June 30, 1992 with a three-year delay, and the
loan component for on-lending to private industries through eligible PFIs
closed on December 31, 1992 as scheduled.  The loan was substantially
disbursed, but SDR 677,717.91 under the credit were cancelled, mostly unused
amounts for technical assistance.
B. Prolect Oblectives and Description
1.05        Profect Oblectives.   The primary objectives of the project were
to support the GOP's efforts to promote private industrial investment and help
the GOP strengthen the financial markets. To this end, the project provided
private entrepreneurs with needed long-term funds to finance foreign capital
and technology imports.



1.06        The project had the following intermediate objectives:
a.    develop a more efficient capital market with a view to
increasing the sources of equity finance for industry;
b.    enhance the flow of term finance to private industry by
increasing the range of services offered by PFIs;
c.    continue the institution-building programs of PFIs, i.e.,
diversification programs, development of accounting and management
information systems, organization studies, training, and resource
planning; and
d.    stimulate further competition among PFIs as a means of improving
the services offered to investors.
1.07        Prolect Description.  The project sought to complement and expand
the focus of the first IIC project by including new PFIs and developing both
primary and secondary capital markets. The project consisted of two
components: (a) a line of credit to help PFIs finance the foreign exchange
requirements of investment projects of primarily private medium and large
enterprises; and (b) technical assistance to strengthen the PFIs'
organization, systems review and subsectoral studies. The equivalent of
US$150 million was extended to finance US$148 million in subloans and US$2
million for TA. Three DFIs (IDBP, NDFC and PICIC) and three commercial banks
(HBL, MCB and UBL) were designated as PFIs. In addition, NBL was eligible for
TA. All private sector industrial activities and related services were
eligible for financing. Selected public sector projects were also eligible
for financing, provided subprojects were related to balancing, modernizing and
rehabilitation (BMR) activities.
1.08        The Bank lent to the GOP on standard terms and conditions.  The
on-lending rate from the GOP to the PFIs was 10% p.a. for PICIC and IDBP and
11% p.a. for other PFIs reflecting differential treatments of tax liabilities
by fiscal authority. On-lending to final borrowers was 14% p.a. Subproject
loans had maturities of up to 15 years including a grace period of three
years.  rZ'he foreign exchange and interest rate risks were borne by the GOP.
The funds were to finance 100% of foreign exchange costs of direct imports of
goods and services, and up to 60% of goods made locally with imported inputs.
The project was intended to finance mainly medium and large scale enterprises
and the asset size of enterprises financed under the project was expected to
range from US$2.0 million to US$10.0 million. Subloan size per subproject,
therefore, had a minimum of US$500,000 and a maximum of US$6,000,000. The
PFIs were responsible for appraising projects in accordance with Bank
standards. As under the first IIC project, all subproject appraisals were
supposed to evaluate economic internal rates of return (EIRR), financial
internal rates of return (FIRR) and domestic resource costs (DRC).
1.09        As indicated above, the Project also included an IDA credit of
US$2 million to provide assistance to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of the PFIs, improve the efficiency of the banking system and
operations of the capital market. The technical assistance had three
subcomponents: training (US$1.0 million); organization and system studies
(US$0.5 million); and subsector reviews (US$0.5 million). IDBP and PICIC were
expected to be major users of the funds allocated for organization and system
studies; IDBP was supposed to use the funds to review its organization
structure while PICIC was expected to apply the funds to examine the benefits
from its diversification into leasing, working capital financing,
export/import financing and equity funding. PBC was also expected to use some
of the funds. The KSE had also obtained access to the TA funds to implement
the findings of the consultants' review. For all technical assistance



-3-
requests, the Bank was expected to approve the TORs, the selection of
consultants and their terms of appointment.
C.  Proiect Desian and Preparation
1.10        Like IIC-I, IIC-Il adopted a multi-institutional approach.  The
strategy was intended to encourage competition among the PFIs. Three DFIs
(IDBP, NDFC, and PICIC) and three NCBs (HBL, MCB, and UBL) were expected to
participate in the Project upon fulfillment of eligibility criteria. These
criteria included for each PFI: (a) adoption by the Board of a Statement of
Strategy and Operating Policies satisfactory to the Bank; (b) establishment of
a project section at the PFI's head office; (c) introduction of a staff
training program satisfactory to the Bank; (d) for IDBP and PICIC,
commencement of an Organization/Strategy Study; (e) achievement of collection
targets agreed to by the Bank; (f) for the DFIs, achievement and maintenance
of a debt/equity ratio and debt service coverage ratio satisfactory to the
Bank; and (g) execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the GOP
satisfactory to the Bank.
1.11        The review of policy and strategy statements during the
negotiation afforded a constructive opportunity for Bank-PFI interaction in
establishing principles of strategic management. Collection targets for all
PFIs and financial covenants for DFIs were agreed upon. These agreements were
documented in minutes of negotiation.
1.12        Under IIC-II, the PFIs were supposed to re-lend the loan funds to
the sub-borrowers at 14% p.a., which was expected to remain positive given the
then anticipated rate of inflation of 10% in the medium-term. The proposed
final re-lending rate was also consistent with market rates of about 14t-15%.
Furthermore, the GOP and the Bank agreed to review the re-lending rates from
the GOP to the PFIs and the subloan rates periodically to ensure that they
were maintained at mutually satisfactory levels. The factors to be considered
in determining the appropriate level included: (a) the trend of inflation and
the need to ensure that the lending rates remained positive in real terms; (b)
prevailing borrowing and lending rates in Pakistan; (c) the adequacy of the
spread for: (i) the Government to cover the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks; and (ii) the PFIs to cover their costs in making the subloans; and (d)
the rate of commitment and disbursement of subloans. Although, ideally, the
rate of interest should have been set free, this pricing policy is considered
to be satisfactory, given the oligopolistic market structure in the banking
industry. In fact, subloan interest rates remained positive in real terms
throughout the project period.
1.13        With respect to financial reporting, accounts and auditing, it was
agreed during negotiations that the PFIs would submit: (a) quarterly progress
reports, and (b) audited financial statements, at least six months after the
end of each fiscal year. In addition, IIC-II requested the DFIs to furnish to
the Bank long-form audited reports within six months from the end of the
fiscal year. This reporting requirement served well to establish objective
standards to assess financial performance of the DFIs, despite the weaknesses
of accounting standards.
D. Prolect Implementation
1.14        IIC-II started without delay.  The project was approved by the
Board in January 1986, signed in February 1986 and made effective in May 1986.
By effectiveness of the loan, only four PFIs had met the eligibility criteria;



however, by the time of the first supervision mission held in October 1986,
all six institutions became eligible for participation.
1.15        Initially, a number of factors contributed to the slower than
anticipated implementation of IIC-II. The most important factor was related
to the volatility in international foreign exchange markets and, more
specifically, to the depreciation of the rupee vis-a-vis the currencies of
some major equipment supplier countries, which resulted in significantly
higher project costs. Commitments were generated smoothly. However,
subsequent subloan cancellations occurred, particularly during the initial
stage of the project in 1987 and 1988. Partly due to regained cross-currency
stability in foreign exchange markets and the international textile boom in
the late 1980's, commitments and disbursements regained momentum since 1988
and IIC-II closed on December 31, 1992 as scheduled. Loans for 42 subprojects
were approved. Commitments for 16 subprojects were cancelled. Post-
commitment subloans, therefore, survived at a rate of 72% compared to 62%
under IIC-I project, suggesting an improved subproject appraisal capacity by
the PFIs.
1.16        It is notable that the new entrant, MCB, played the leading role
as a retailer of investment credit funds with its solid client base. MCB
concentrated its lending business in the higher market end, appraised 7
subprojects with high volume, and made loans amounting to US$37.29 million,
representing 25% of total IIC-II loans. MCB did not record any cancellation
of subloans, and maintained the quality of its portfolio at a satisfactory
level. HBL approved 9 subprojects, amounting to US$32.47 million. IDBP
funded 13 subprojects in the textile sector amounting to US$30.94 million by
focusing on the lower end of the market with average loan size of US$2.5
million. HBL cancelled one subproject, whereas IDBP cancelled five
subprojects. Less active were PICIC (US$16.35 million), NDFC (US$15.35
million) and UBL (US$15.58 million).
1.17        Of the total commitments, 92% was allocated to textiles, 2% to
food products and processing, and onl9ZLI to paper, paper-proddEEs, printing,
engineering and the chemical industry. This extremely high concentration in
textiles was one of the outstanding features of IIC-II. In contrast, under
IIC-I only 32% went to textile projects, 20% to food manufacturing, and 16% to
paper production. In particular, PICIC and IDEP allocated all subloans under
IIC-II to the textile industry. Although this portfolio concentration by the
PFIs reflected expectations of the global textile booms in the late 1980s, the
lack of diversification in their portfolio clearly contributed to the
deterioration of PFIs' balance sheets in the 1990s henEiternational trades
became less active.  The Bank's role inf esur-9Eg-asoet_diyalcit,ion was not
enforced during subprojects rev5?ew since exposure limits were not mandated in
the71Ic-II loan agreement.  Moreover, reorganization of the Bank, subsequent
staff turnovers and lack of supervision missions contributed to the failure in
ensuring high quality of PFIs' portfolio.
1.18        There were no serious delays in the submission of periodic audited
financial statements by the PFIs, including long-form audits of DFIs. The
/ statements, however, did not appear to realistically reflect PFI performance
.J.and conditions.  Collection and portfolio problems were a concern for most of
the PFIs.                 -
1.19        Although all six PFIs became eligible for participation in IIC-II
after effectiveness, the second supervision mission in March/April 1989 had
already observed that management turnover at the PFIs and GOP's interference
in the management had a negative impact on PFIs'- perfor uanF.~As-a-result,
PfICIC`and-IDBP delayed implementing diversification programs in violation of
theaagreement with the Bank. IDBP also violated financial covenants
particularly with respect to collections and became ineligible. Subsequently,
the third supervision mission in October and November 1989 noted that PICIC's



debt service coverage and collection ratios had dropped below respective
covenants. Furthermore, two of PICIC's directors were viewed as willful
defaulters. IDBP remained ineligible and arrears problems were growing for
other PFIs. The fourth supervision mission in March and April 1990 observed
that management turnover and GOP's interference further impaired the
performance of PFIs.  IDBP continued to be in violation of collection
covenants although it showed some improvements in collection performance in
the 1990s. Moreover, UBL lost its eligibility due to one large non-performing
loan amounting to US$6.7 million. IDBP and UBL never became eligible again
under IIC-II.
1.20        TA training proved to be useful and was well appreciated by the
PFIs. However, most of the funds were used for sending PFIs' staff to
international seminars on an ad hoc basis. IDBP carried out the institutional
restructuring studies, but little follow-up was conducted by the PFI or the
Bank. PICIC did not initiate its organization and business review.
Furthermore, PBC and HEL did not carry out any major study, but only used the
TA for staff training. The KSE did not use the TA funds to implement the
consultants' findings as expected.
E. Profect Results
1.21        Obiectives and Targets.  Like IIC-I, IIC-.I was  aErtlyiaruceasful
in achievinag__is objectives, particularly in facilitating private investment.
The eotal investments financed under IIC-II are estimated to be over Rs 6,639
million and the number of new job opportunities created are estimated to be
over 4780.  The inclusion of NCBs enr.iragad_efficient resource allocation to
productive investment activities. The disbursement of the loan was
substantially achieved. NCBs deepened-their project finance skills. In this
context, MCB's performance was notable. In general, PFIs continued to improve
the quality of project appraisal capacity and diversified their operations
into new lines of business, including working capital finance. Expanded
services of DFIs and NCBs promoted competition and better services to
clientele, i.e., faster service and broader product options. In general, IIC-
II is considered to have succeeded in ensuring a stable flow of term finance
to private industry by increasing outlets and the range of services offered by
them, and stimulated competition among PFIs.
1.22        Shortcomings.  The objective of enhancing the efficiency of
capital markets was not fully achieved.  Due to lack of the Bank's supervision
mission, the technical assistance program lost its momentum at a fairly--
ililtial stage.  Most of the TA funds were used for training on an ad hoc
basis. Consultancy work in relation to capital market development was not
carried out.
1.23        The objective of institution building in terms of autonomy and
accountability was not achieved satisfactorily, either. For example, IDBP and
UBL could not meet eligibility criteria under IIC-II project, largely due to a
lack of management's autonomy-and accountability. IDBP showed improvements in
collection performance and assets diversification in the 1990s, but the
portfolio infection was generally high during project implementation. UBL got
into trouble with one large non-performing loan due to poor project appraisal.
PICIC made progress in colect±onperformance and achieved some
diversification into new lines of business. However, its asset quality was
questionable. Rescheduling was exceedingly frequent.
1.24        The lack of diversification in PFIs' portfolio under IIC-II
contributed to the deterioration in assets quality. The concentration of
portfoliTotn-theEtextile-iindustry resulted in an-increase in defaults at the
time of the downturn of textile exports.



-6-
F. Project Sustainability
1.25        Performance of several PFIs deteriorated during the period of the
project.  IDBP became ineligible to participate in IIC-II due to poor
collection performance, and never became eligible again.  Its collection on
post-1982 portfolio, while improved markedly to 62% has remained substantially
lower than the 75% required for participation in the IIC-II project. PICIC
lost eligibility in 1989 but was reinstated in 1990. UBL became ineligible in
1989 due to failure to meet the covenanted collection ratio with-one large
problem loan and never became a participant again in IIC-II.
1.26        The poor assets quality problem must be addressed at micro and
sector levels. 'At-the micro level, it is imperative for the top management of
the PFIs to make collections one of their top priorities. More concretely,
remedial measures should include the following: (a) more critical review at
appraisal stage; (b) closer monitoring during implementation; (c) effective
supervision after start-up of production; (d) firm and systematic collection
of amounts due; (e) timely advice for corrective action; and (f) capacity to
expeditiously pursue legal action when necessary. To do so, incentives must
be clearly established within PFIs.
1.27        At the sector level, the existence and enforcement of clear and
uniform accounting, auditing and disclosure standards, which provide lenders
and equity investors with reliable and timely information, is an important
ingredient for successful project implementation.  wijtboiZ transparent and
adequately disclosed financial statements, it is difficult to monitor
financial performanc-e propeir-ly-and timely7 and take action to resolve the
issues. Furthermore, effective legal framework that assures the speedy,
efficient, and impartial   EtIement-oLchahns and governs the distribution of
assets in the event of bankruptcy is also required. The recent privatization
and liberalization of the banking industry is expected to bring about autonomy
and competition, and thus improve the overall efficiency in the financial
system. At the same time, issues of capital adequacy, weaknesses in the
regulatory/supervision framework, and viability of PFIs will need to be
resolved to promote sustainable growth based on improved efficiency of
resource allocation.
G. Bank Performance
1.28        IIC-II was intended to capitalize on the improving efficiency in
the allocations of credits for private industrial investment. Although the
disbursement of the loan was smooth, the adequacy of approval and monitoring
~of su.bprojects is questionable.  The project-appraisal -apacity.nLPPFIs was
Q generaI±ywea*k rESielimits did not exist, and autonomy and accountability
in PFIs were lacking. The Bank should have emphasized the importance of
careful subproject approvals by the PFIs and Bank's review of subproject
feasibility since it is difficult for the Bank to monitor and control
subprojects execution ex post. Instead, the Bank raised the free limit for
subproject approval to US$3,000,000 in IIC-II from US$40,000 in IIC-I.
Granting PFIs autonomy in lending is obviously a desirable feature, but it was
not prudent in Pakistan given the problem of debt recovery.
1.29         The Project also attempted to increase equity finance and non-
bank long-term resources through the development of a more efficient capital
market. The Bank did not follow up this issue systematically during project
execution.  Although TA was usefuil parEicufarly foFrimproving PFIs' staff
skills, it was used on an ad hoc basis and did not address the major objective
of the component, namely capital market development.



1.30        The Bank sent only four supervision missions during six and one
half years from project effectiveness to closing, and the last mission took
place in November 1992 just before IIC-II closed. Given the problem of poor
collection and weak screening of subprojects, the lack of supervision was a
crucial issue.  The supervision reports failed to provfe-a- -close monitoring
of-compliance with the financial covenants. Many of the financial statements
and related reports on PFIs as well as subprojects data were not on file.
Efforts to develop the database to trace compliance with covenants were
inadequate.
H. Borrower Performance
1.31        The GOP contributed to smooth effectiveness of the loan and
finalization of the subsidiary agreement. The GOP collaborated well with
supervision missions both with the Bank and ADB, the co-financier. The GOP
has recently carried out substantial financial policy reform. For example,
two of the five government-owned commercial banks have been privatized and new
banks and other financial institutions have been established to encourage
competition.
1.32        The GOP is also moving towards more indirect means of controlling
monetary aggregates and has been strengthening prudential regulations. For
instance, rates of return on loans and deposits have been liberalized; the
degree of credit concessionality to favored sectors has been limited; bank-by-
bank credit ceilings have been abolished and an auction market for government
securities has been established. Moreover, ten Banking Tribunals have been
set up to exclusively handle recovery cases of commercial banks and DFIs. A
Credit Bureau has also been established at SBP. A financial institution may
obtain information on existing liabilities of potential borrowers and their
credit performance from the Bureau. These reforms are commendable and need to
be broadened and deepened to optimize capital accumulation in the private
sector and achieve the efficiency of the financial system.
1.33        However, most PFIs remain financially weak, under-capitalized and
under-provisioned. Moreover, the process of reform creates not only
opportunities but risks and challenges. Prudential regulation will become a
critical and decisive factor for the success of the sector reform.
1.34        In addition, recurring political interference in managerial
appointments and credit decisions of PFIs have adversely affected their
financial performance and soundness. This impaired the motivation and
commitment of staff and-disaupted-m-ana-gement efforts.  Widespread public
ownership of NCBs and DFIs coupled with this lack of autonomy and
accountability exacerbated the largest single problem for the banking system;
i.e., poor debt recovery.
I. Lessons and Recommendations
1.35        For Bank Performance.  In general, this PCR endorses lessons and
recommendations on the part of the Bank proposed in the PCR for IIC-I. As the
previous one suggests, future credits should be reinforced by systematic
sector reforms that specifically address the elements jeopardizing PFIs'
soundness. In future operations in the financial sector, it is recomnended
that the Bank continue to focus on monitoring of collection targets, and
strengthening of management, systems and appraisal/supervision capability. In
addition, however, the Bank should develop and support sector policy reforms,
which provide the financial sector with the right incentive framework.



- 8 -
1.36        Prerequisites for successful sector reform would include: (i)
establishment and enforcement of transparent and consistent accounting,
auditing, and disclosure standards, which provide lenders and equity investors
reliable and timely information on which to judge borrower's creditworthiness
and risk; (ii) strengthening of transparent and effective legal framework that
assures the speedy, efficient, and impartial settlement of claims and governs
the distribution of assets in the event of bankruptcy; (iii) competition (or
liberalization) is important for encouraging innovation in financial services
and overall financial market efficiency. Therefore, fair, transparent, and
consistent rules of entry and exit in the financial system must be established
and enforced; (iv) privatization efforts should be accelerated to provide
financial intermediaries with autonomy and accountability, thus attaining
efficiency gains; and (v) financial sector liberalization and privatization
must take place within a strong regulatory and supervisory framework with a
view to securing soundness of the financial system during the reform process.
There is high systemic risk in the banking industry if privatization and
liberalization are to be accelerated without addressing capital adequacy of
the financial institutions and supervision.
1.37        In the case of financial intermediary operations, successful
project implementation depends upon careful monitoring of the PFIs and close
supervision of subprojects as soon as problems arise.  In this context, the
Bank should have sent supervision missions at least twice a year regardless of
the turbulence surrounding the Bank's reorganization. Moreover, given the
substantially increased number of PFIs under IIC-II, adequate staffing should
have been provided for supervision missions. A closer review of subprojects
by the Bank would also help improve appraisal standards for PFIs.
1.38        The market determination of interest rates is an essential element
of competition and efficiency in the financial sector. Ex post real interest
rate for the subloan was clearly positive, but ex post net interest margin was
estimated to be marginal. There are still possible abuses of market power
stemming from still oligopolistic market structure of the banking industry.
However, its pricing policies should be gradually set closer to "market"
determined levels.
1.39        In appraising a subproject, exchange rate fluctuation contingency
should be added to total subproject costs in addition to price and physical
contingencies. Funds allocated sometimes fall short of the required cost due
to exchange rate fluctuations between subproject approval and disbursements,
which can be 2 to 3 years.
1.40        Although new entrepreneurs need to be encouraged to make
productive industrial investments under any financial intermediation
operations, an appraisal of subprojects should be carried out with due regard
to the entrepreneur's adequate knowledge of and expertise in the proposed line
of business and project risks. Sufficient security including maintaining an
adequate debt/equity ratio of maximum 60/40 is considered to be a prudent
business practice.
1.41        Technical assistance proved to be useful and appreciated by the
PFIs. However, most of the funds were used on an ad-hoc basis without a long-
term plan or strategy for institutional building, largely due to lack of
incentives on the part of PFIs. It is recommended that, in future operations,
given the Government's credible commitment to restructuring of the financial
system, TA component address, inter alia, privatization of the two remaining
state-owned commercial banks and strategic reorientation of DFIs with a view
to facilitating autonomy and accountability of financial intermediaries.
1.42        For Borrower Performance.  As the Government indicated in para.
2.02 below as the main objectives of the project, both quantity and quality of
the economy's industrial investment are critical in terms of its growth and



efficiency. Economic growth and poverty alleviation with rising per capita
incomes require industrial investment in more and better productive capital.
It is essential to recognize that the amount of industrial investment is
important, but it is also important that investment be channeled to the best
uses. The efficiency of the financial system is a major determinant of both
the quantity and the quality of industrial investments.
1.43        Years of state ownership, over-regulation of real activities and
under-regulation of their financial soundness, however, have left the most
financial institutions uncompetitive, inefficient, and financially vulnerable.
Recent privatization and liberalization in the banking industry is expected to
achieve efficiency gains in the financial system. These policies should be
continued and strengthened with credible enforcement of effective prudential
regulation.
1.44        With regard to the Bank's future assistance for improving the
financial sector in the economy, it is recommended that GOP and the Bank focus
not only on collection targets to monitor the performance of the PFIs, but
also on broadening and deepening of financial sector policy reforms. The
upcoming FSDIP should help meet some of these objectives. Among the issues to
be addressed under the proposed operation would be: i) creating a more level
playing field for all classes of financial intermediaries; ii) reducing
subsidized lending by SBP; iii) reducing SBP's exposure to foreign exchange
risk and creating a private market for foreign exchange cover; iv) improving
further the prudential regulations for financial intermediaries;
v) strengthening the regulatory framework of the insurance sector; vi)
improving the legal framework for loan recovery; vii) preparing for the
privatization of the two remaining state-owned commercial banks and insurance
companies; viii) strategically reorienting the DFI sector; and ix) promoting
capital market development.



- 10 -
PART II:  COMMENTS FROM THE GOVERNMENT
2.01        The IIC-II project of US$150 million (loan component of US$148
million and technical assistance component of US$2 million) was signed on
February 12, 1986.  The project (IIC-II) became effective in May 1986.  The
project was originally scheduled to be closed on December 31, 1989. However,
due to a number of reasons, including international tension and inability of
the sub-borrowers to utilize the sanctioned loans in time, the closing date of
the project had to be extended to December 31, 1992. The Credit has been
fully committed/utilized by PFIs.
2.02        The main objectives of the project were:
a.    to improve the credit delivery system;
b.    to strengthen the term lending capability of PFIs and
continuance of institution-building programme; and
c.    to assist PFIs in financing units which may contribute
to economic and social development of the country.
2.03        The above objectives have been achieved to a great extent as
highlighted below:
Improvement in Credit Delivery System
2.04        The scope of the multi-institutional approach adopted in IIC-I was
further widened with the inclusion of another NCB, i.e., MCBL (which has
subsequently been privatized) . The availability of financing of industrial
projects on identical terms and conditions from the six financial
institutions/banks created a healthy competitive environment forcing the
lending banks/institutions to adopt customer-oriented policies and procedures.
Strenqtheninc of Term Lending Capability of PFIs and Continuance of
Institution-Building Programme
2.05        The technical assistance (TA) component helped the DFIs/banks in
upgrading and diversifying their manpower skills in project appraisal,
supervision, monitoring and recovery operations. More than 120 executives of
the six PFIs attended various training courses abroad.
2.06        PICIC utilized the TA component for purchase of computers along
with related equipment to improve the processing and sanctioning of the loan
applications procedure.
2.07        IDBP utilized the TA component to undertake an "organization
review and business developments" study conducted by Furguson Associates,
Karachi and Samsuel Montague Company Limited, London. NDFC utilized the TA
component for conducting a market study on export prospects of mango pulp and
fruit juice concentrates in Europe.



Financing of Industrial Units
2.08        A total of 42 industrial projects have been financed by the banks
and DFIs under the subject Credit line. The sector-wise position of
industrial units financed under the Credit is as under:
a.    Textile Spinning          22 cases
b.    Textile Weaving             7 cases
c.    Woolen Textile             1 case
d.    Textile (composite-        2 cases
spinning/weaving)
e.    Textile (finishing)        1 case
f.    Leather Products           1 case
g.    Polymerization/             2 cases
Synthetic Fibers
h.    Dairy Farm                  1 case
i.    Footwear                   1 case
j.    Hard Board Manufacturing  1 case
k.    Pharmaceutical             1 case
1.    Plastic Products           1 case
m.    Packages                    1 case
2.09        The textile spinning projects account for more than 50% of the
total projects financing under the Credit. However, a detailed analysis has
shown that the number of new textile spinning units is 15 while the remaining
7 cases involved balancing, modernization and/or expansion of existing
spinning projects. The spinning mills financed under the project also
envisaged production of finer counts of yarn. While the projects financed by
the five DFIs/banks are quite diversified, all the seven projects financed by
MCBL related to textile spinning only. MCBL, therefore, needs to diversify
its project financing.
2.10        The total investment in the industrial units financed under the
project is over Rs 6639 million. Similarly, the number of new job
opportunities created by these projects is over 4,780. Except for one
project, the remaining 41 projects are in operation and performing well. Out
of 42 projects financed under the Credit, 36 projects have been sponsored by
experienced/existing entrepreneurs while 6 projects have been sponsored by the
new entrants. The industrial projects finaniced under the Credit have a fair
regional disbursement.
Assessment and Imolementation of the Prolect
2.11        PFIs' experience in dealing with the World Bank in respect to the
subject Credit line has been quite good. The queries referred to the World



- 12 -
Bank were generally responded to promptly. The World Bank and Asian
Development Bank also worked closely with the Government of Pakistan and some
PFIs in resolving the problems of non-performing assets. The PFIs have been
able to improve their collections, liquidity position, increase their volume
of business and strengthen their financial condition with the assistance
rendered by the World Bank in respect to this Credit line.
2.12        In accordance with the terms and conditionalities attached to the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), a number of reforms have been made by
the Government of Pakistan in the existing financial system which are
mentioned below:
a.    Prudential regulations have been enforced for
banks/NBFIs.
b.    Ten Banking Tribunals have been set up by the
Government of Pakistan to exclusively handle recovery
cases of banks/DFIs. This will help in quick disposal
of litigation cases which shall be beneficial for
banks/DFIs in improving their recovery position.
c.    Necessary circular instructions have been issued by
GOP/SBP to treat the bridge loan as part of debt in
the IIC-III project of the World Bank.
d.    The credit ceiling system for banks has been abolished
and a credit/deposit ratio was introduced July 1,
1992.
e.    The process of privatization and deregulation has been
initiated. In addition to a number of state-owned
industrial units, two banks, viz., MCBL and ABL, have
also been handed over to the private sector.
f.    The Board of Directors of NCBs/DFIs have been
reconstituted. Directors from the private sector have
been included on their boards and more autonomy has
been given to the respective boards.
g.    A Credit Bureau has also been established at SBP.  A
financial institution while considering a loan
proposal and taking decision thereon may obtain
information about existing liabilities of the
applicants and their credit performance from this
Bureau.
h.    The rate of subsidy of various lines of credit has
gradually been decreased and now export refinance and
funds for LMM financing are being provided by SBP at
St per annum only.
Other Matters/Issues
2.13        IDBP has reported that the World Bank's attitude towards IDBP has
been quite positive. While acknowledging that they could not maintain some of
the covenants they feel that the criteria ratios specified for IDBP were quite
stringent and no flexibility was allowed by the World Bank. Despite the fact
that IDBP was able to improve its performance, the World Bank did not allow
IDBP access to its credit line. A flexible approach from the World Bank would
have made IDBP a participant in the IIC-III Credit.



- 13 -
2.14        The PFIs are generally satisfied with the disbursement process of
the World Bank. However, at times they encounter problems of shortage of
proceeds. Allocation is invariably made in US dollars and L/Cs are
established in various currencies depending on the origin of the plant and
machinery. The timings of establishing L/Cs are also different. At the time
of finalization of the procurement, PFIs ensure that the allocated amount in
terms of dollars is sufficient to meet the entire foreign currency requirement
of the project based on the prevailing rate of exchange with an adequate
safety margin. However, the funds allocated sometimes fall short on account
of the following:
a.    The World Bank works out the equivalent dollar based
on the prevailing exchange rate in respect to each
withdrawal even for the L/Cs which had been
established earlier.
b.    The World Bank makes payment in currencies available
with the World Bank instead of in the currency of the
concerned country from which the procurement is being
made. This sometimes results in non-issuance of the
qualified commitment of the World Bank. In such a
situation, it becomes very difficult for the DFIs to
arrange additional foreign currency funds which delays
the implementation of the project.
C.    The World Bank has shown its reluctance to finance
projects sponsored by new entrepreneurs which is
against GOP policy of broad-basing the industrial
ownership and dispersal of credit.



- 14 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.          Related Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                                              Date of     Status/
Title                  Purpose                        Approval    Comments
Ln. 2380/Cr. 1439-PAK   To help GOP improve the          1/84        Closed on
First Industrial         credit delivery system and                  4/30/91.
Investment Credit        focus on the institutional                  PCR prepared
(IIC-I)                 restructuring of PICIC & IDBP.               on 6/23/92.
Ln. 3019/Cr. 1982-PAK   To help GOP promote the          1/31/89     Closing on
Third Industrial         growth of equity markets,                   12/31/94.
Investment Credit        improve credit delivery for
(IIC-IlI)               industrial finance, address
corporate finance issues and
assist PFIs' diversification.
Ln. 3029-PAK             To help GOP reform the finan- 4/14/89       Second
Financial Sector         cial sector: gearing credit                 tranche
Adjustment Loan          allocation to market signals,               released.
(FSAL I)                improving health and efficiency
of bank, and creating a
more efficient Government debt
system.
Cr. 1499-PAK             To promote investments in       6/14/84     6/30/90
Second Small Scale       SSI subsectors and improve                  closing
Industry Project        productivity of existing                     extended to
(SSI-II)                SSI units.                                   6/30/92;
deteriorated
collections.
Ln. 2839-PAK             To provide SSI financing,       6/16/87     12/31/95
Third Small Scale        expand PCIs' SSI funding                    closing.
Industry Project         capabilities, and develop
(SSI-III)               export marketing system.



- 15 -
2.   Proiect Timetable
Date               Date               Date
Item                Planned             Revised           Actual
- Identification/             3/85               1/85              1/85
Preappraisal
- Appraisal Mission           6/85                  -              6/85
- Loan/Credit                11/85                  -           11/5/8S
Negotiations
- Board Approval             12/95               1/86           2/12/86
- Loan/Credit                 3/86               5/86            S/9/86
Effectiveness
- Credit Closing           6/30/89            6/30/92           6/30/92
- Loan Closing            12/31/92                  -          12/31/92
- Credit Account          10/30/89           10/30/92          11/17/92
Closing
- Loan Account Closing     4/30/93            4/30/93



- 16 -
3. Loar./Credit Disbursement Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
VP - XU.TII ASIA REGIONAL OFFICE
SOMTH ASIA: CMITRY DEPT III
24610 - CWJIMY OPER, IND & FINUACE DIV
PAKISTAN
PFPMI4 - Disbursmnt Infor tion
(U.S. S MILLIOCS)
(LOA Data as of 7/30/93 - MIS Data a of 08/17/93)
......................................................
Project: 5PAKPA134 - INDMS. INV. CR. 11            Effective Date: 05/09/86
Approved AMOt:    150.00                      Carnellation:       1.62
Formal ly
Fiscal    Actul Ant. Profile Amt. Revied Amt. Original AMt. Revised At.
Year     CuLilative   CQajlative    Cumulative      Cumjlative    cumlative
......    ........  .......  ------------.... ............  -------------..... ........----------....................   
1966
sop, 1965
Dec, 1985
Mar, 19166
e, 1966
1967
Sep, 1966                       .37                         3.50
Dec, 1966         .01           .74                         7.50           .01
Mar, 1987         .08          7.79                        15.00           .08
JLu, 1967        6.35         14.84                        22.50          6.35
Sep, 1967        9.15         20.77                        27.60          9.15
Dec, 1967       12.96         26.71                        32.70         12.98
Mar, 1968       24.31         35.61                        38.90         24.31
Jun, 1988       46.05         U.52                         45.00         46.05
1969
Sap, 1968       52.21         62.32                        52.50         52.21
Dec, 1968       a5.22         80.13                        59.90        85.22
Mar, 1969       98.08         92.00                        67.50         96.08
Jul, 1989      106.45        103.87                        75.00        106.45
1990
Sap, ¶969      109.12        109.80            U4.30                    109.12
Dec, 1989      120.27        115.74                        93.50        120.27
har, 1990      124.69        118.71                       103.00        124.69
Jun, 1990      128.89        121.68                       112.50        128.89
1991
sa, 1990       ¶31.01        124.64                       116.50        131.01
Dec, 1990      141.67        127.61                       120.00        141.67
fMr, 1991      142.57        130.58                       124.00        142.57
jun, 1991      143.45        133.55                       127.50        143.57
1992
ap, 1991       148.69        16.51                        131.50        143.17
Dec, 1991      148.75        139.48                       135.00        147.37
MAr, 1992      148.77        140.97                       139.00        148.56
JiL, 1992      14.78         142.45                       142.50        14.66
1993
a. 192         148.79        143.93                       146.50        18.76
DeC, 1992      148.80        145.42                       150.00        149.80
MAr, 1993      18.80         146.90                       150.00        150.00
Jun, 1993      148.80        14.3                         150.00
1994
a, 1993                                                   150.00
Dec, 1993                                                 150.00
Mr, 1994                                                  150.00
Jut, 1994                                                 150.00



- 17 -
4.          Prolect ImDlementation: Selected Financial Indications
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)
PICIC                                              1.1:1               1.15:1
IDBP                                               1.1:1               1.15:1*
NDFC                                               1.1:1               1.25:1
NCBs                                               n.a.                n.a.
Debt/Equity Ratio (DER)
PICIC                                              7:1                 7:1
IDBP                                               5:1                 7:1
NDFC                                               5:1                 5:1
NCBs                                               n.a.                n.a.
Collection Targets
PICIC                                              +                   75%*
IDBP                                               75%*                75%*
NDFC                                               n.a.                85%
NCBS                                               n.a.                7S%**
Portfolio Infection
PICIC                                              n.a.                20%
IDBP                                               n.a.                15t
NDFC                                               n.a.                20%
NCBs                                               n.a.                15t
Return on Average Equity
PICIC                                              n.a.                12%
IDBP                                               n.a.                12%
NDFC                                               n.a.                20%
NCEs                                               n.a.                n.a.
NOTES:      *  Collection of current dues.
** Collection on Bank-financed projects.
+ Collection targets for 1983-1985: 1983-Rs 430 million;
1984-Rs 460 million; 1985-Rs 500 million.
Sources:    PCR and SAR I and SAR II.



- 18 -
5.    Proiect Results: Maior Studies
Purpose as
Defined at
Studies                 Appraisal           Status         Impact of Study
ID=P
Organization Review   IDBP's
& Business           restructuring.    Completed.         Useful.
Development
Marketing Study       N.A.               Completed.         Useful.
on Export Prospects
of Mango Pulp &
Fruit Juice
Concentrates
PICIC
Organization &        PICIC's
Business Review      restructuring.    Not Completed.    N.A.
Pakistan Bankinc Council
No major study
No major study
No major study



- 19 -
6. Status of Covenants
Name of PFI    Covenant Description            Compliance       Remarks
PICIC         EliQibility Criteria
- DSCR: 1.15:1 min.
in FY86 & 1.2:1 thence          OK
- DER: 7:1 max.                    OK
- Return on average
equity: 12% min.                OK
Collection Targets
- Cash collections: fr.
Rs. 575 to 1000 million         OK
- Total collections:
fr. 40 to 60%                   OK
- Collections of current dues
under post '81 loans:
75% throughout                  OK
- Portfolio infection:
fr. 30 to 20% max.              OK
Viability Indicators
- Return on ave. total
assets: 2% min.                 OK
- Return on ave. capital                  Initially complied with;
employed: 2.25% min.            OK    later declared
- Adm. exps./ave. total                   ineligible but was
portfolio: it max.              OK    reinstated in 7/90.
EliQibilitv Criteria
- DSCR: 1.15:1 min.
in FY86 & 1.2:1 thence          OK
- DER: 7:1 max.                    OK
- Return on average
equity: 12% min.                OK    Computations include
provisions as part of
profit.
Collection Targets
- Cash collections: fr.
Rs. 500 to 1000 million         ACT   Noncompliance is traced
- Total collections:                      to the highly
fr. 40 to 65%                   ACT   problematic portfolio of
- Collections of current dues             IDBP.
75% throughout                  ACT
- Portfolio infection:
fr. 40 to 15% max.              ACT
Viability Indicators
- Return on ave. total
assets: 1.2% min.               ACT
- Return on ave. capital                  Partial compliance:
employed: 1.25% min.            OK    declared ineligible
- Adm. exps./ave. total                   later due to failure
portfolio: 1.2% max.            ACT   to meet covenants.



- 20 -
EliQibilitv Criteria
- DSCR: 1.25:1 min.                OK
- DERs 5:1 max.                   OK
- Return on average
equity: 20% min.                n.a.
Collection Targets
- Cash collections:
fr. 70 to 80t                  OK
- Overall collections:
fr. 75 to 85t                   OK
- Portfolio infection:
20t max.                        OK
- Satisfactory arrears
recovery/restruct.
program                         OK
Viability Indicators
- Return on ave. total earning
assets: 2.5t min.               OK
- Adm. exps./ave. total
portfolio: 1i max.              OK
NCBs          - No DSCR/DER covenants            N.A.
Collection Targets
For Bank-financed
projects: 75% min.
HBL                               ACT  Breached '90; inelig.'91.
UBL                               ACT  Breached '89; inelig.'89.
Portfolio infection:
15t max.
HBL                               OK
UBL                               ACT  Ineligible in 89.
Notes: (a) N.A. * not applicable
n.a. a not available
ACT a needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
(b) Noncompliance with collection targets by NCBs is traced to the
inherent risks in project financing.



- 21 -
7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staffweeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle                        Period                  Staffweeks
Up to Preparation                    FY85                      45.8
Preparation through Approval         FY85-86                   29.2
Negotiations                          FY86                      4.2
Processing                           FY85-86                    n.a.
Project Administration               FY8S-86                    n.a.
Supervision                          FY87-93                   68.2
PCR Preparation                      FY93                       6.0
Total                                                         153.4



- 22 -
B. Mitsions
Overall
Activity          Period/      No.of    Days in  Project       Comments
Report Date   Persons  Field    Rating
Identification/   12/12/84    N.A.      N.A.      N.A.   Project Brief was
Preparation                                              prepared based on the
experience and lessons
learned in IIC-I.
Preappraisal      01/08/85-   3          20       N.A.
01/27/85
Appraisal          06/28/85-   6         22       N.A.
07/19
Supervision       10/11/86-   2          11       1       All six PFIs became
10/22/86/                              eligible for
02/05/87                               participation.
Supervision       03/24/89-   4          15       2       Management turnover at
04/07/89/                              PFIs and GOP
05/24/89                               interference impact
negatively; PICIC and
IDBP delayed in imple-
menting diversification
moves, in violation of
Bank agreement; IDBP
also in violation of
financial covenants
under IIC projects;
NCBs perform well but
subject to management
turnover.
Supervision       10/20/89-   4          15       2       Similar observations as
11/03/89/                              in 05/24/89 report;
11/29/89                               PICIC DSCR and
collection ratios drop
below covenants; 2
PICIC directors viewed
as willful defaulters;
IDBP suffers liquidity
problem; IDBP remains
ineligible; growing
arrears problem for
other PFIs.
Supervision       03/26/90-   2          10       2      Management turnover and
04/04/90/                              GOP interference
04/26/90                               impacted negatively;
PICIC declared
ineligible. IDBP
prospects doubtful;



- 23 -
NDFC stretched; UBL
declared ineligible.
Supervision        11/01/92-   2         12        2       IDBP and UBL still
11/12/92                                ineligible.  HBL, MCB,
NDFC and PICIC remain
eligible.



- 24 -
ANU I
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
Prolect ComDletion Report
Second Industrial Investment Credit
Profile of Subiproiects
PFI         Sub-borrowers                   Subsector      Loan Amount ($'000)
HABIB       Alnoor Sugar Mills              Food               3,251
Mohammad Farooq Textile        Textile             8,467
Gulistan Spinning Mills        Textile             5,921
M/S Rupali Polyester           Textile             3,347
Hafeez Textile Mills           Textile             3,195
Pearl Fabrics                  Textile            5,176
Atlantic Pharmaceutical        Chemical              682
Tila Tubes                     Engineering        1,610
Nafees Cotton Mills            Textile               936
(One subproject cancelled)
Subtotal                                         32,585 (22%)
IDBP        Gulistan Textile Mills          Textile            1,600
Hala Spinning                  Textile             5,641
M/S Pearl Textile              Textile             2,300
Mohib Exports                  N.A.                3,527
Diamond Fabrics                Textile             3,400
Tritex Cotton Mills            Textile             5,641
Gulistan Weaving Mills         Textile            2,283
Century Fabrics PVT            Textile               396
Gulistan Textile Mills         Textile             1,701
Sunshine Cotton Mills          Textile            1,975
Kohinoor Textile Mills         Textile             1,814
M/S Shaheen Cotton Mills       Textile             1,369
Saitex Spinning Mills          Textile               890
(Five subprojects cancelled)
Subtotal                                         32,537 (22t)
MUSLIM      Bilal Fibers                    Textile            3,714
Mehr Dastgir Textile Mills    Textile             4,878
M/S Mehmood Textile Mills      Textile            6,004
M/S Usman (PVT) Ltd.           Textile             5,658
Shahpur Textile Mills          Textile            5,412
Apollo Textile Mills           Textile             5,671
J.A. Textile Mills             Textile            5,948
Subtotal                                         37,285 (25t)



- 25 -
Page 2 of 2
NDFC        Salman Noman Enterprises       N.A.               2,916
En-Em Industries               N.A.               2,842
Al Qadir Textile Mills         Textile            5,069
Sunrays Textile Mills          Textile            3,100
Pakistan Engineering           Engineering          420
Royal Leather                  Leather            1,000
(Five subprojects cancelled)
Subtotal                                         15,647 (10%)
PICIC       Sapphire Fibers                Textile            5,325
Gulshan Spinning               Textile            2,965
Adamjee Polycrafts             Textile            6,333
Naveed Textile Mills           Textile            1,200
Moonlite Ltd.                  Textile              525
(Three subprojects cancelled)
Subtotal                                         16,348 (11%)
UBL         Industrial Packages            Paper                847
Agro Industries                Agro business      2,369
Sind Textiles Industries       Textile            6,712
Fateh Textiles Mills           Textile            3,085
Fateh Industries Ltd.          N.A.               2,634
(Two subprojects cancelled)
Subtotal                                         15,647 (10%)
Total Commitments                                     149,749



- 26 -
ANNBS 2
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTAN
Proiect Comwletion Report
Second Industrial Investment Credit
Sectoral Allocation
(Percentage Distribution & Number of Proiects)
DFIs                      NCBs
Total   PICIC   INDFC                               N
t
Subsector           Amt  N.                No No.   No .Q. A   N   At No. Amt No. Amt No.
Textile              92  35  100 5  100 13   86  2   83  6   75  2  100  7
Paper, Paper Pro-    1   1                                         7  1
ducts & Printing
Food Products &       2   1                              10  1
Processing
Engineering           1   2                       4  1    5  1
Chemical &            1   1                               2  1
Petrochemicals
Cement, Ceramic &
Glass
Agricul. & Forest                                10  1
Products
Minerals
Others                3   2                                       18  1
Total           100  42  100  5  100 13  100  4  100  9  100  4   100 7
Source: Bank records



