cP  ZV70  -A L
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCL USIE OrNLY
Report No. P-6377-AZ
MEMORANDUm AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 14.3 MILLION
THE THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLI C
FOR A
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARCH 28, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =      Manat
US$1           =      4,300 Manats
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEM            =      Country Economic Mcmorandum
FSU            =      Former Soviet Union
GoA                   Government ot Azerbaijan
IDA            =      Intemnational Development Association
.'CB                  International Competitive Bidding
IMF            =      Intemational Monetary Fund
IS             =      International Shopping
MOF                   Ministry of Finance
mt             =      million tons
PIU            =      Project Implementation Unit
PPF            =      Project Preparation Facility
SOCAR          =      State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic
TA             =      Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUM1LARY
Borrower:                  Azerbaijan Republic
Beneficiaries:             State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic (SOCAR);
Experts Group for Petroleum Legislation.
Poverty:                   Not applicable
Amount:                    SDR 14.3 million (US$20.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                     35 years, including 10 years grace, at standard IDA terms.
Commnitment                0.50% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
Fee:                       effective 0.00% for FY95.
Onlending                  US$20.225 million equivalent will be on-lent to SOCAR in US dollars
Terms                      for 12 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 200 basis
points above the prevailing yield on US 10-year Treasury Bonds, with
6-month variable interest rates.
Financing
Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ 000)
IDA                          0      20,800      20,800
GovernmentISOCAR         2,060           0       2,060
Total                    2060       2826
Net Present Value:         Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    A Technical Annex has been prepared in lieu of a Staff Appraisal
Report.
Map:                       IBRD No. 24912
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDuM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELoPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DItECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE AzERBAmJuN REPUBLIC
FOR A PETROLEUM TECHuNcAL AssIsTANcE ftOJECT
1.           I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed credit to the Azerbaijan Republic for SDR 14.3 million, the equivalent of US$20.8 million, to
help finance a Petroleum Technical Assistance Project. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA
terms with a maturity of 35 years. A portion of the proceeds of the credit (US$20.2 million equivalent)
would be on-lent to the State Oil Company of Azerbaijan (SOCAR) in US dollars for 12 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 200 basis points above the prevailing yield on US 10-year Treasury
Bonds, with 6-month variable interest rates.
PART I. Cou. rRY POLICmS AND BANK GROUP ACTIm Es
2.           Azerbaijan covers an area of 86,000 kilometers on the soutbeastern flanks of the Caucasus
mountains. Over half of its 7.2 million population is urbanized; the capital, B3aku, has about 2 miilion
inhabitants and is a major harbor on the Caspian Sea. The country is endowed with fertile agriculturai
land and natural resources, including petroleum. Azerbaijan has been one of the oldest oil producing
regions in the world. Despite the large unexploited reserves, oil production has been declining, however,
because existing fields have reached a state of advanced depletion. The energy sector now accounts for
less than 15 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Azerbaijan has also a diversified industria;
structure and a relatively well educated labor force.
3.           From 1989 to 1994, Azerbaijan was engaged in an armed conflict over the Nagorno-
Karabakh region. Although the cease-fire agreement has held for over eight months, Azerbaijan has lost
control over about 20 percent of the national territory. Even though open hostilities have come to an end
and progress has been made in negotiations for a durable settlement, its timing and terms remain
unepertain. The country now confronts a large economic burden as a result of the internally displaced
(about 700,000) and refugee population which together approaches one million (about 13 percent of total
population).
4.           Since Azerbaijan's independence in 1991, the Government started taking some policy
measures to liberalize the economy and promote an eventual transition to a market economy. The
Govermment took a decision to introduce the national Currency, the manat, in July 1992, liberalized many
prices, initiated some financial sector reforms, and began developing the necessary legal and institutional
framework. There was little progress on privatizatien, enterprise restructuring and land reform. Political
instability, the large number of displaced persons and the occupation of territories due to the conflict,
diverted the Government's attention from economic reform issues. In the last several months, the
Govemment has shown an increased determination and commitment to undertake a stabilization program
and more far reaching structural reforms.
5.           There has been a rapid expansion of new private sector activity in trade, services and
construction sectors during the last three years, leading to the emergence of a buoyant private sector,
starting from a small base. However, while the Azeris are known for their entrepreneurial dynamism,
the development of the private sector has been constrained by several factors.  First, while the



-2-
Government liberalized some prices, the prices of strategic goods such as cotton and oil, as well as their
trade, both domestic and foreign, were controlled. Consequently, the relative prices continued to be
distorted. Differentiated surrender requirements of foreign exchange and multiple exchange practices also
contributed to implicit taxation of foreign trade. Second, there was a lack of an effective legal framework
clarifying the property rights, and little progress on privatization. Third, the Government preempted most
of the resources for financing the burgeoning fiscal deficit and the needs of state enterprises. Finally,
the political instability and frequent govcrnrnental changes were also not conducive to an environment
favorable to the private sector. Tlese factors should now change with the Government trying to
accelerate the reform process.
Recent Econoniic Developments
6.           Azerbaijan faces a very difficult economic situation with a continuous fall in output,
reflecting the disruption associated with transition from central planning, exacerbated by dislocations in
trade links among the Former Soviet Union (FSU) republics, the aftermath of the conflict over Nagorno-
Karabakh and declining oil production as a result of the depletion of Lhe existing oil fields. The
deterioration in Azerbaijan's output started in 1989, even before the dissolution of the FSU, but has
accelerated since then. Agricultural production declined due to falling yields and disruption in the
external markets for wine and cotton. These negative trends have persisted in 1994 and have been
aggravated by the recent conflict in Chechenya, which has significantly disrupted the transportation links
with the Russian Federation. The cumulative decline in output since 1989 is estimated to be over 50
percent. This probably is an overestimate, however, since the official figures fail to capture significant
emerging private sector activities. It has recently signed an agreement with international oil companies
regarding the development of off-shore oil fields in the Caspian. This should help to reverse the decline
in oil production starting in 1998, although there are several uncertainties surrounding the timely
implementation of this agreement (see below para 28).
7.           Inflation, which reached an annual rate of about 800 percent in 1993, accelerated in 1994.
By June 1994, the increase over the same month of the previous year was about 1600 percent and by
November this rate had reached 1800 percent. The increase in prices has been far more rapid than the
increase in the money supply (which was 700 percent in the year ending September 1994). The increased
velocity of money mainly reflects the high degree of uncertainty that has characterized the Azerbaijan
economy.
8.           Registered unemployment remains negligible, with the impact of declining output being
felt in terms of the average wage rather than the level of unemployment. Real wages had declined by
60 percent in the 12 months ending in December 1994.
9.           The consolidated general government budget deteriorated significantly during the last two
years. This has been due to military expenditures related to the Karabakh conflict, the burden of
refugees, the contraction in tax revenues as a consequence of declining output of the formal sector, and
of the inability of the tax administration to capture emerging private sector activities. The bread subsidy
has been significantly reduced, but in the enviromnent of high inflation progress was slow in moving
energy prices closer to world levels. The consolidated general govermnent accounts registered a deficit
of about 11 percent of GDP in 1993 and an estimated 13 percent of GDP in 1994.
10.          The trade and payments situation has also deteriorated. Azerbaijan's trade deficit is
estimated at about $200 million in 1994, compared with a deficit of about $60 million in 1993. The main
factors accounting for the deterioration in the trade balance are the sharp increase in the price of natural



-3-
gas imports from Turkmenistan and the trade disruptions due to the conflict in Chechenya. The overall
trade deficit in 1994 has been financed by growth in arrears with Turkmenistan for natural gas imports,
an initial payment (" signature bonus") from the oil consortium with which it signed an agreement to
develop the off-shore oil fields in the Caspian Sea (para 6), and a small amount of net disbursements on
official loans.
Policy Priorities During the Transition
11.          The major task confronting the Government in the immediate future is to stabilize the
economy and to undertake a comprehensive program of structural reforms to create the conditions for
sustainable growth, while protecting the vulnerable groups during transition and laying the basis for a
much more focussed poverty alleviation program. On the stabilization front, the authorities have reached
understandings with the IMF on a program which could be supported under the IMF's Systernic
Transformation Facility. The main elements of the ambitious stabilization program would be: (a) the
unification of the exchange rate; (b) a fiscal adjustment which would bring the budget deficit down to 4.5
percent of GJDP in 1995; and (c) a monetary program compatible with these fiscal objectives. As a result
of the understandings reached with the IMF on an STF program, the Goverrnent aims to reduce the
monthly rate of inflation to 5 percent by the middle of the year, axid to 2 percent by the end of 1995,
compared with an average increase of 29 percent in 1994.
12.          The decline in the fiscal deficit is projected to be achieved by a combination of revenue-
raising and expenditure reduction measures. The Government has introduced comprehensive tax measures
in the Parliament to yield revenues amounting to an additional 7 percent of GDP. It has also proposed
in its 1995 budget a sharp reduction of budgetary expenditures, through drastic cuts in security related
expenditures, subsidies on L,read and energy, and direct subsidies to enterprises. The domestic financing
of the budget is to be limited to 2 percent of GDP.
13.          The National Bank of Azerbaijan has raised the National Bank of Azerbaijan's refinancing
rate to 17.5 percent per month on January 1, 1995 and discontinued the automatic overdraft facility of
the Agroprom and Prominvest banks, which were the major sources of indiscriminate financing of
enterprises. In February 1995, it raised the refinancing rate to 25 percent and introduced credit auctions
with participation of 30 private commercial banks and limited allocations to the four state banks. The
National Bank's are set at positive real rates, but will eventually be based on the results of the auctions.
Structural Reform Program
14.          Price Liberalization: The Government has also begun to take measures to accelerate
structural reforms. It has liberalized all prices including bread, other than energy. Prices of oil and oil
products were raised to 50 percent of world levels in February 1995, and are to be raised further in
March and June 1995 to 66 percent and 100 percent of border prices respectively. Price regulation will
be limited to natural monopolies (electricity, gas, district heating, water, sewage, rents and transport).
15.          Trade Liberalization: The system of domestic trade has been liberalized through the
abolition of state orders on January 1, 1995. The procurement related to the Govermnent's own needs
is to be carried out at market prices. It has unified the exchange rate and eliminated the implicit taxation
of st;ategic exports resulting from the differentiated surrender requirements at below market rates. It
intends to remove by the end of March 1995 all quotas and licensing requirements for imports and
exports except for energy products. The export of energy products will be subject to licensing until July



-4-
1995, when it is expected to be abolished. The state dominance in foreign trade will be significantly
reduced, including elimination of government imports of grain. This should help the private sector to
play a vital role in foreign trade.
16.          Privatization and Private Sector Development: The Government has decided to speed
up the privatization of enterprises. Although the Govermnent adopted a law on privatization in 1993, no
programn was adopted to implement the law.  The original privatization program  contemplated
privatization of small enterprises and services in the first two years, medium enterprises in the next two
years, and large enterprises thereafter.
17.          Recognizing the importance of having an appropriate institutional framework to implement
a comprehensive privatization program, the Government decided to strengthen the State Property
Conmmittee and appointed a deputy prirne minister responsible for the program. The Government is
preparing a comprehensive new privatization program to be submitted to Parliament. This program
currently envisages privatization of small enterprises (with up to 50 workers) by auctions and direct sales
to individual workers (to be completed by end-1995); corporatization of at least 20 medium and large
enterprises into joint stock companies and commencement of sale of majority of shares in these companies
to domestic and foreign private buyers; a review by September 1995 the experience of initial privatization
and adoption thereafter of a program for corporatization and privatization of all other state enterprises.
18.          The Governnent is aware that witlout strict financial discipline on the enterprise sector,
the stabilization program will not be sustainable. It recognizes the need to strengthen corporate
governance and enforce financial discipline, through restricting credit, and making it available on market
terms and only to those enterprises that have viable restructuring plans. To enforce financial discipline
on enterprises, the Government has decided that it will not provide any budgetary support to enterprises,
will refrain from extending directed credits to enterprises, and encourage banks to force borrowers to
adhere to strict financial conditions. It also intends to enforce vigorously the recently approved
bankruptcy law.
19.          While the privatization itself has been slow, there is evidence of significant private sector
activity. The development of the sector has been, however, haphazard. To facilitate private sector
development, the Governrment is working to clarify the legislative environment, and to eliminate the
existing constraints to private sector development, particularly access to credit, land and office space, and
trade. The abolition of state orders, and the liberalization of external trade should help facilitate the
development of the private sector.
20.          Financial Sector Reform: The financial system in Azerbaijan consists of a central bank,
two large specialized state banks, and a large number of commercial banks. With a view to increasing
competition, the banking law initially set a low level of capital requirement for commercial banks. This
resulted in a mushrooming of such banks, which are largely owned by public enterprises, and which act
as conduits for channelling central bank refinancing at negative real interest rates. The Government
recognizes the important role the financial sector will have to play both in the stabilization efforts and
in private sector development, and it has requested the Bank's assistance in developing a strategy for
financial sector reform. That strategy would have to include establishment of accounting and auditing
standards, prudential regulations, strengthening the capacity of the Central Bank to supervise conmnercial
banks and more irportantly restructuring and/or liquidation of some of the state banks.
21.          Social Protection: As in other FSU countries, Azerbaijan faces the problems of social
adjustmnent daring the transition, and in the medium term to reform the structure of social protection from
the point of view of fiscal sustainability. The Government recognizes the need to focus on cash



-5..
compensation of the neediest gioups and strengthening the capacity to deliver assistarce to these groups.
While liberalizing prices, especially of bread, on February 1, 1995, the Govermnent increased targeted
cash transfers to the poorest segments of the population. In the medium term, promoting growth will be
a key requirement in reducing poverty and mitigating social tensions. In addition, it would be essential
to protect basic social services such as health and education, and to promote a substantial rationalization
of health and education expenditures to improve health service delivery and making education relevant
to a market economy. As a first step, the Government plans to review the linkage between the minimum
wage and othe, wages and social benefits.
22.          In the short term, the problems of social protection are overshadow J by the burden of
refugees. In facing this tremendous burden, Azerbaijan is receiving modest help from bilateral and
multilateral donors, the latter coordinated by UN agencies.
Sector Strategies
23.          EnerA   Sector: The country is currently facing the problem of declining oil production,
and despite its large oil exports, it is not self sufficient in energy, due to its large gas imports. There
are substantial undeveloped reserves in discovered fields, and even larger reserves in unexplored
structures. The potential production fror,n these deposits could hold the key to the development of
Azerbaijan's economy. The Govermment attaches great importance to private sector involvement in
harnessing its oil resources. It has recently signed an agreement with international oil companies
regarding the development of off-shore oil fields in the Caspian Sea. Besides its efforts to develop its
off-shore resources efficiently, the Govermnent has also to address the issue of rehabilitating older on-
shore and off-shore fields, the restructuring of its refining capacity and the related environmental issues.
Recognizing the need for price adjustments to bring them up to world market levels, the Govermnent has
increased energy prices. For some products, such as gasoline, the prices are near world market levels,
but on average prices are about 40-50 percent of international prices. Based on discussions with the Bank
and the IMF, the Government intends to raise domestic oil prices, including the domestic price of crude
oil, further to 66 percent of world market levels by end-March 1995, and to world market levels by
end-June 1995.
24.          Agriculture: Azerbaijan possesses a variety of agro-climatic conditions, and the potential
for a diversified development of agriculture. Increased agricultural production will be a crucial element
in Azerbaijan's recovery and long-term growth. Recently, the loss of territory has contributed to a
significant decline in production. Inadequate attention to maintenance of irrigation systems and poor
drainage, and the inefficient use of water leading to salinity have also caused the decline in productivity.
The priority in this sector would be to create an appropriate policy environment to stimulate the supply
response. With a view to improve incentives the Government has liberalized prices, and abolished the
system of compJ-lsory state orders on January 1, 1995. The Government has begun distribution of
surplus land to private farmers, and has also requested the Bank's assistance in the privatization of some
collective and state farms on a pilot basis which would serve as a model for large scale privatization of
agricultural farms. The Government will also have to create the competitive envirornent in which farm
restructuring can succeed. Measures in this respect will include liberalization of producer prices,
demonopolization and privatization of state-owned marketing and procurement agencies, and abolishing
state orders.
25.          Infastucture: Much of Azerbaijan's infrastructure is in a sad state of disrepair due too
long neglect of maintenance. Besides remedying this sitation the Govermnent is keen to reconstruct the
infrastructure destroyed in the civil conflict in the occupied areas to facilitate the return of the displaced



-6-
persons to their original habitat. In support of private sector promotion, Azerbaijan will have to
strengthen its infrastructure, especially telecommunications and transport. Azerbaijan has a relatively well
developed transport system that is well adapted to its geography and able to satisfy current demand. Yet,
despite the impressive quantity of transport facilities and equipment, the major problem is the
deteriorating condition and relative inefficiency of most transport assets, which lead to high operating
costs, especially in road and rail transport. As economic restructuring takes place, a shift toward road
transport is expected, given its greater flexibility and ability to satisfy the diversity of customer
requirements. The Government understands the need to create a more favorable environment to help the
sector adjust to changing demand and to increase efficiency by enhancing competition within the sector,
26.           A particularly difficult situa,ion is in regard to drinking water supply, the poor condition
of which is a significant potential health hazard. Most households have to cope with the insufficient and
irregular supply of water, and women bear the greatest burden of the water supply crisis. The wastage
in the water system has to be reduced, and the quality of water improved before it becomes a serious
health hazard.
Medimn-Term Prospects
27.           Azerbaijan's medium-term  prospects are strengthened by the country's petroleum
resources and by its potentially strong private sector. The latter reflects cultural traditions sympathetic
to trading and entrepreneurship, which appear to have survived the long period of communism. Although
a resolution of the conflict with Armenia would bring about a welcome reduction in military expenditures,
the costs of the refugee programs and of reconstruction and resettlement would still be very large and
would continue for some years. Azerbaijan is unlikely to regain even the per capita income levels of
1993 until after the turn of the century.
28.           A turnaround in energy production is essential for resumption of growth, but this depends
on early resolution of difficult issues: First, there has to be a clear agreement among the coastal countries
regarding the Caspian territorial rights. Russia declared its non-recognition of the contract inmuediately
after it was signed, suggesting that the countries with Caspian coastline should reexamine the 1921 and
1940 treaties governing the sea, and be included in talks on exploiting its resources. Second, even if the
issue of Caspian territorial rights is resolved, an export pipeline route must be negotiated and established
to allow access to international markets. Moreover, oil exports will develop only gradually and will not
yield significant benefits to Azerbaijan until around the turn of the century.
29.           Given its petroleum resources, and the entrepreneurial dynamism of its private sector,
Azerbaijan has a very substantial economic potential for the longer-term. But it clearly faces serious
problems for the short and medium-term. Azerbaijan's financing needs are substantial. Considerable
imports of capital goods, as well as raw materials, will be required to help rehabilitate the infrastructure
and reconstruct the war-damaged areas. Over the medium termn, Azerbaijan's negative trade balance will
even be larger if investments in the energy sector are not made, because it would shift from being a
petroleum prodidct exporter to being a large net importer. The next decade will rot be easy and will
place heavy demands upon the nation's economic and political leadership. Substantial assistance from
the donor community, much of it on concessional terms, will be needed to support the efforts of
Azerbaijan. As oil output and exports begin to expand, such dependence will gradually decline.



-7-
World Bank Assistance Strategy
30.           Objectives: Thle Bank's assistance prograiim aims to support Azerbaijan itl its transilicn
througlh policy advice, economic and sector work, adjustment and investment lendinig, and aid
coordinationi. 'rhe objective oi the FY96-98 Bank country assistance strategy is to. (i) suppori macro-
economic stabilization and structural and sectoral reforms; (ii) enhanice market incentives in productive
sectors, particularly in agriculture; and, (iii) improve social protection and expand access to basic
services, particularly to the poorest groups. T'he Bank is curre.itly preparing a Rehabilitation Crcdit.
As the work progresses on the proposcd Rehabilitation Credit and elements of the structural reform
program emerge in the next few months, the Bank will be developing, together with the Governmlent, a
comprehensive strategy under which different lending scenarios will be outlined. Tentatively, we are
planning two projects per year over the next three years, financed with IDA lending of about $130
million.
31.           Institution Building: A key aspect of the Bank's initial assistance strategy is to provide
technical assistance to strengthen Government's institutional capacity for managing its petroleum
resources, for formulating key policy changes to accelerate refonn, and to elaborate its sectoral priorities.
The proposed Petroleum Technical Assistance Credit is designed to help the development of the
government's institutional capacity for managing its petroleum resources.
The Bank is also preparing an Institution Building Technical Assistance Project which would assist the
Government in the formulation and implementation of an economic reform program, and to help
strengthen its capacity for macro-economic management. This Credit is expected to provide technical
assistance in key reform areas, including: (a) privatization of non-agricultural enterprises; (b)
strengthening macro-economic management, and (c) modernization of the financial sector.
32.           Structural Reforms: Support for structural reform is crucial to a successful transition.
In parallel with the understandings it has reached with the IMF on implementing a macro- economic
stabilization. the Government has also requested the Bank to support its reform efforts with a
Rehabilitation Credit.  The key areas of the reform  program  to be supported by the proposed
Rehabilitation Credit would include progress on privatization and corporate reform and enterprise
restructuring, private sector development, yro-competition and anti-monopoly policies, and reform of the
banking sector. These efforts would be accompanied by reforms of price and subsidy policies, foreign
trade policies and in the social protection system.
33.           Strengthening the Social Safety Net:  An essential element of the Bank's initial
assistance strategy is helping prepare the social safety net for the massive restructuring of the productive
sector that lies ahead. The main vehicles for support are the proposed Rehabilitation Credit and a
proposed Baku Water Supply Project. The Rehabilitation Credit would focus support on the strengthening
of the main components of the safety r-t: cash compensations to vulnerable groups affected by price
liberalization and consumer subsidy removal, pension benefits, unemployment benefits and labor market
services. The challenve in all components is to restore badly eroded benefits to levels protecting the
vulnerable against poverty, and to achieve this in a fiscally sustainable manner through improved targeting
and improved collection of payroll contributions. The strengthening of these components also would
benefit the large number of refugees and displaced persons that are eligible.
34.           Preventing the deterioration of basic social services is a critical component to
strengthening the Social Safety net. The Bank is preparing a Baku Water Supply Project aimed at
improving the water supply situation, preventing a health hazard, and addressing long-term institutional
reform in the provision of municipal services. The Baku Water Supply project will also have a poverty
focus, as it will assist the poorer sections to gain improved access to an essential service. The Baku



-8-
metropolilan waler supply system covers over a third of the country's population. Virtually all calegories
of households in all nie'ighhorhoods and income grouplXs su'fer 1romnX unreliahle and unsafe waler service.
Regarding the immediate short-term pr(lelmnAs of' (he internailly displaced and refugee population. tlie
Government is relying on the support of other internalional amgencies and bilateral donors to provide
humanitarian assistance.
35.           Infrastructure: In addition to supporting structurai reformls. the Bank's initial strategy
also includes financing projects wlhichl support rehahilitationi of existinLg infrastructure and invCstment.
The Government recognizes the importance of climinating waste and loss in the use of cnergy in the
ecoonmy, and especially gas, and thus promoting greater sclf-sufficiency. The Bank is considering
assistance in the rehabilitation of gas transmiiissioin and distribution systems, for which it has helped
mobilize a grant from Japan. The grant is helping tile Government evaluate the options for a gas
investment strategy.
36.           Agriculture: In view of the importance of the agricultural sector, the Bank is initiating
a sector review, which will facilitate a bettcr understanding of the sector priorities and constraints and
help determine the role the Bank can play in the sector's development. The Government has recently
taken steps to liberalize prices, to eliminate state orders and to rely on the private sector for grain
imports. This should help to promote a policy environment which will help stimulate a supply response.
Pending the completion of the proposed sector review. the Bank is considering assistance in the
privatization of some collective and state farms on a pilot basis to serve as a model for large-scale
privatization of agricultural farms. It is also expected that rehabilitation and improvement of the
irrigation and drainage facilities could address problems of salinity and inadequate drainage, and also help
minimize waste and loss in the use of water. Thus. the Bank is also explor'.g the possibility of
supporting off-farm irrigation rehabilitation to support the Government's efforts at improving water use.
Finally, the Government has requested the Bank to assist in the reconstruction of its infrastructure,
especially those which were damaged in the military conflict. The Bank has indicated its readiness to
consider such a request when the conditions permit an assessment of the dam1age and the consequent needs
for rehabilitation.
37.            If the Government is able to deepen the stabilization program to be supported by a
standby arrangement from the IMF and to continue progress on structural reforms, the Bank would
consider an adjustment operation in FY97.
38.           Given the sharp decline in its GDP per capita over the last five years, Azerbaijan's GDP
per capita is currently below the IDA threshold. Furthermore, its creditworthiness will be strengthened
only over the long-term, once recent agreements with foreign oil companies are implemented. The Bank
has therefore responded to the Government's request to make its assistance available on IDA terms. For
the first two years of the FY96-FY98 program, we plan to provide IDA financing. Significant IDA
support initially is appropriate in light of the exceptional hardship suffered by the Azeri population
because of an armed conflict and the opportunity created by the end of the conflict for renewed attention
to policy reform. For the future lending program, as the creditworthiness is strengthened with the
implementation of the oil agreer.,ents and the structural reforms, the level and blend of IBRD resources
and the timing of such blending will be determined by the government's reform efforts and the resolution
of key external factors on which creditworthiness depends.
39.           Economic and Sector Work: The Bank's economic and sector work on Azerbaijan will
form the basis for policy advice and design of the lending program. The first CEM was issued in
September 1993, and formed the basis for discussion of transitional issues. The Bank has also completed
an energy sector review, which sets out the sector's performance, prospects and priorities. Annual



ecolloImiic updates will lie prepared to assess progress in econlomiC reloriln anid update mllaCr-ccOllonolic
developilleits. A Poverty Assessmiient is planned lor FY97. An agricultural sector review. and a study
ol' lihc financial SCvi(tr are to comeiinclcc in this fiscal year. 'I'hese reviews will provide the basis for
dialogLIC o1: policy issues and will underpin possiblle lendinig operations in those specific sectors.
40.           Implementationi and( Capacity '%uilding: Azcrbaijan's ability to impii:lement a c:rediblc
relform program at an accelerated pace and to implicnt Bank projects is crucially depenident UpOIl
strcengthenlinig its institutional cdpacity to dcsigin and implement such a program. and improvinig the
interiial coordination of its economic policy-making units. The proposed Petrolcuin Technical Assistanlce
and Institution Building Technical Assistance projects are dlesigned to assist the Government withi
provision of resources aimed at developing such capacity. Besides these specific technical assistance
projects, the Bank will continue to strengthen management capacity in specific areas in individual
projects.
41.           Other Bank Group Activities: Azerbaijan is a member of the Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA). While it is not yet a member of the International Finance Corporation, it
has expressed i:s willingness to join the IFC. It is expected that these agencies will soon start operations
in Azerbaijan.
42.           Aid Coordination and Resource Mobilization: As Azerbaijan begins to accelerate its
reform program, it will need to widen its links with international organizations. It is contemplating
membership in the Asian Development Bank. The European Union has been expanding its involvement
through its TACIS program and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has begun to
extend its financial and technical assistance.
43.           The Bank will continue to play a catalytic role in helping the Government to articulate
its technical assistance and financial assistance needs. A pre-Consultative Group (CG) meeting was held
in December 1992 to discuss Azerbaijan's technical assistance needs and subsequently a local meeting
was held in June 1993. To strengtlhen the Government's limited capacity to manage external assistance,
an Institution Development Fund (IDF) grant was approved to establish an external assistance
management unit. This unit is responsible for promoting effective management of financial and external
assistance and improving resource mobilization capacity. A full CG meeting is planned for end-May
1995.
44.           Role of IMF: The IMF completed its first Article IV Consultations in 1993 and has
provided technical assistance in monetary, fiscal and statistical issues since 1992. It has agreed with the
Govermnent on a program for possible support under the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility (STF)
program. Subject to the fulfillment of prior actions, the Fund Board is likely to consider the STF request
on April 19. 1995.
Risks
45.           In the short run, the main risk for the success of Azerbaijan's reform is the sustainability
of the reace efforts. Should there be a backsliding in the progress towards regional political stability,
it is likely that the Government would be distracted from its focus on the reform program. Azerbaijan
also faces significant external risks arising from disruptions in transport links affecting its external trade.
A second risk is the possible weakening in the Govermnent's commitment to implement a strong reform
program in the face of popular discontent arising from further declines in output and employment. A
third risk factor arises from the weak institutional capacity. given the limited experience with a market



-10-
ecoMl0ltly. Finally. failure to mobilize external assistance until the oil revenues start flowing would
expose the cconomy to a serious foreign exchange constraint and slow the pace of economic recovery.
In the long run, Azerbaijan's economic recovery would depend on its ability to resolve the issues in oil
development.
46.           We expect to present a comprehensive Country Assistance Strategy for Azerbaijan
following discussions with the Government in the context of a proposed Rehabilitation Credit in the first
quarter of L*Y96. It will take into account the risks discussed in the foregoing paragraphs in formulating
lending scenarios (the level and composition of the Bank/IDA assistance) including the relevant triggers
and iniplications for Bank exposure.
PART II. PETROLEUM SUB-SECTOR BACKGROUND
47.           Oil has traditionally accounted for a substantial share of Azerbaijan's export receipts and
government revenues. Increasing investment and exports through development of the country's
considerable remaining petroleum potential is essential to reversing the current economic decline.
Upgrading of the existing infrastructure and management of the oil, natural gas and power sub-sectors
is also critical to improving the efficiency of resource use within the economy. Oil production from
existing fields has been declining and inadequate investment has recently caused a premature collapse of
production from the large offshore Guneshli field, which accounts for 60 percent of national output.
While reversing the production decline from the Guneshli field must be an urgent priority, rationalization
of production in the older oil fields also presents a major challnge. These fields have substantial
remaining reserves, but existing production operations are often uneconomic and environmentally
darnaging. Rationalization of production will require substantial investment, and presents problems of
labor reallocation and institutional reform. There are significant environmental problems related to oil
production, includinm pollution from crude oil spills and inappropriate disposal of formation water. The
offshore oil fields, including Guneshli, are involved in polluting the Caspian Sea, and this problem is
being aggravated by the continuing deterioration of production facilities.
48.           There are large undeveloped oil fields in the Caspian Sea offshore Azerbaijan (with
reserves of about 650 million tons (mt)), the development of which by Azerbaijan could raise oil
production from 10 mt at present to 45 mt within ten years. Such a development program would require
investment of about US$10 billion, and would lead to oil exports in the year 2005 of up to US$5 billion,
or 60 percent of total exports. Since the local industry does not have the technology or finance to develop
the new fields, the Government has recently signed a field development agreement with major foreign
oil companies. This agreement involves exceptionally complex issues, including coordinating field
development, planning of common infrastructure and of a large international oil export pipeline, and
arranging for local construction of production platforms and for marine and supply facilities. SOCAR also
has plans to rehabilitate the producing portion of the Guneshli field, possibly using financing from foreign
petroleum companies. Foreign investment in petroleum exploration and production has been hampered
by the lack of an appropriate legal and fiscal framework, and the drafting and enactment of a Petroleum
Law and related provisions is urgently required. A further complicating factor is the need to define the
international boundaries of the Caspian Sea, following the break-up of the Soviet Union. The challenge
of resolving these problems, and long project lead times, mean that substantial benefits from oil
development may not be available to Azerbaijan before the year 2000.
49.           The Government's energy sector policies aim to: (a) attract foreign private investment for
oil development; (b) restructure energy institutions to attract private capital and adapt to the new



-11-
economic environment; (c) prioritize and prepare investments; and (d) reform energy pricing in line with
market principles. The Goverrnent has taken initiatives on all these fronts, but, apart from the agreement
with foreign companies on offshore oil fields, progress to date has been limited, and the overall
coordination of sector policy remains weak. Azerbaijan's energy sector institutions, while technically
strong, still lack the means to design and rank projects according to economic criteria and to deal with
the international business enviromnent. Rationalization of the large energy enterprises has hardly begun
and a legal framework for the energy sector has not yet been put in place. An Experts Group has been
set up by the Government to draft a Petroleum Law, but progress to date has been limited. The
Government has agreed in principle with the need to move energy prices to economic levels, and has
recently taken steps to raise certain prices substantially in real term-s. However, most oil and gas prices
remain well below international parities, and here has to date been no consistent policy framework for
adjusting energy prices in an appropriate manner. Prior to the recent agreement with the IMF, there was
no consistent policy framework for adjusting energy prices to economic levels. Under the agreement with
the IMF, prices for petroleum would be adjusted to reflect world prices. However, prices for gas and
electricity generally remain well below economic levels.
PART II. THE PROJECT
50.          Project Objectives. The objectives of the Project are consistent with the strategy outlined
in Part 1. The main objectives are: (a) to accelerate foreign private investment and financial participation
in petroleum exploration and production through providing TA to SOCAR, particularly for restructuring
of the Guneshli field; (b) to strengthen petroleum sub-sector institutions through development of
petroleum legislation, training, and improvements in inforrnation systems; and (c) to prepare investmnent
projects in the petroleum sub-sector, through joint studies between SOCAR and foreign advisors. The
focus of the Project will be to create an enabling policy and institutional environment which would allow
foreign private investment in the petroleum sub-sector to be mobilized efficiently.
51.          Project Description. The Project will provide TA in the following areas of the petroleum
sub-sector: (a) provision of resources to SOCAR to recruit financial, legal and technical advisors for: (i)
fornulation and management of a project for the rehabilitation of the Guneshli field, (ii) exploration and
development of other fields and construction of related infrastructure, (iii) legal studies on Caspian Sea
boundary determrination, (iv) development of an oil export pipeline, and (v) petroleum licensing and
exploration promotion (base cost: US$14.36 million); (b) development of a legislative and fiscal
framework for petroleum exploration and production (US$0.45 million); (c) institutional strengthening
of SOCAR through training, and introduction of information and comununication systems (US$1.15
million); (d) detailed investment and restructuring studies of the older oil fields, gas processing facilities
and oil export infrastructure improvemnents (US$3.35 million); (e) TA for the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) covering financial, procurement and project management services (US$0.75 mnillion); and (f) an
unallocated amnount of US$1.0 million (foreign currency cost) to cover additional project preparation
activities and advisory services in the energy sector.
52.          The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$22.9 million equivalent, net of taxes and
duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$20.8 million (91 percent). The proposed IDA credit
would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cos s and the Government and SOCAR would finance
the local currency expenditures. A breakdown of project costs and financing is shown in Schedule A.
Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations are



-12-
given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$0.5 million
equivalent was agreed in October 1992.
53.          Project Implementation. SOCAR will be responsible for executing all aspects of the
Project with the exception of the Experts Group's work on developing a new Petroleum Law. To manage
and coordinate overall project activities, SOCAR will establish a PIU with appropriate staff and
responsibilities. The petroleum legislation component of thz project will be executed by the Experts
Group, which will appoint an official to be responsible for coordination with IDA and for project
implementation. The PIU, in close coordination with the respective departments of SOCAR, will manage
the procurement and disbursement activities, and arrange for finalizing any contracts and payments. It
will also monitor and provide necessary logistical support to the consulting services. The PIU staff will
be designated by and paid for by SOCAR. The PIU will report to the President of SOCAR, and will be
headed by a recently appointed Executive Director who will be assisted by two professional assistants,
a financial controller, and a secretary. A specialized international consulting firm will be appointed under
the Project to assist the PIU in procurement and project management. The design of the Project is based
upon the provision of a "turnkey" service by experienced consulting firms, which should simplify
admiinistration by the PIU. The consulting firms will be required to involve local counterparts closely in
their work, to ensure transfer of skills and local commitment. The implementation of the Project is
expected to take about four years.
54.          Project Sustainability The Project is designed to ensure that the TA provided leads to
the maintenance of institutional strengthening measures and the use of investment and other studies for
project implementation. Specific components have been tailored to meet the needs of SOCAR, following
extensive joint review and discussion, and SOCAR will be closely involved in Project implementation.
This will help to guarantee SOCAR's ownership of the work, and commitment to following up its results.
The on-lending arrangemnents will also help to focus the enterprise upon achieving results. IDA has
received from the Governrnent an undertaking to present to Parliament the Petroleum Legislation, to be
drafted under the Project, which should ensure that the work under the Project leads to a sustained change
in the legislative framework. The TA relating to the Guneshli field will be provided in the context of a
major investment project, involving foreign contractors and financing. Finally, IDA will receive a specific
description of how SOCAR and the Government intend to follow up on the TA activities.
55.          Lessons Learned from Previous IBRD and IDA Involvement. The IBRD and IDA
project experience in Azerbaijan is largely limited to the implementation of various PPF's. This shows
that continuous supervision by IDA and early attention to procurement activities are essential. The Project
has also incorporated good practices from IBRD and IDA experience in the FSU countries and TA
operations in other countries, including: (a) the proposed TA components must be consistent with the
country's sectoral development strategy; (b) the government and project entity must demonstrate
commitment to the goals of the Project; (c) there should be an institutional capacity to manage and absorb
the assistance provided; (d) the terms of reference for studies should be detailed and explicit about the
expected outputs; (e) a consistent counterpart team with sufficient authority to move a project forward
should be identified during project preparation; (f) there should be close coordination among key
interested parties (Ministries, agencies, levels of government) on critical project issues; (g) TA should
be closely coordinated with the development of private sector oil company activities in the country; and
(h) the potential benefits of a PPF to help address procurement and other implementation issues should
be taken into account.
56.          Rationale for IDA Involvement. The Project supports the IBRD/IDA strategy in
Azerbaijan, and the specific strategy for the energy sector by: (a) assisting in the rapid development of
petroleum  resources using foreign investment; (b) preparing for investments in energy sector



-13-
infrastructure and in improved efficiency; and (c) strengthening key institutions in the petroleum sub-
sector. The issues addressed by the Project reflect the priorities identified in the CEM and the Energy
Sector Review. TA financed by IDA is required, since development and implementation of the
Government's energy policies will call for significant inputs from international advisors. Yet commitment
of grant funding by donors to Azerbaijan has to date been limited, as Azerbaijan appears to have been
accorded a relatively low priority among the FSU countries. The World Bank has had a strong
relationship with SOCAR and its predecessors since early 1992, and has therefore been taking a leading
role in providing advice and mobilizing assistance to the petroleum sub-sector. IDA's involvement in
Azerbaijan will help to re-assure foreign companies which are planning large investments in oil
production, and are concerned about country risk. Assistance by IDA for policy formulation and
investment planning will lay the groundwork for the private and multilateral financing of energy
investment projects which will be required in future.
57.          Agreed Actions. The Government and SOCAR have agreed to meet the following
conditions prior to effectiveness of the credit: (a) execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Govermnent and SOCAR; (b) establishment of the PIU with staffing and functions necessary
for the implementation of the Project; and (c) appointment of three additional staff to the Experts Group.
In addition, the Government/SOCAR have agreed to the following: (a) mnaintenance of the PIU with
staffing and functions satisfactory to IDA; (b) implementation of all the studies and mobilization of
consultancy services provided under the Project in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA; (c) furnishing IDA with the findings and reconunendations of all the studies as well as planned
follow-up programs or actions for IDA's review and commuent; (d) provision of an interim progress report
by the PIU not later than September, 1995; (e) submission of a draft Petroleum Law to the Supreme
Soviet (Parliament) not later than February, 1996; and (f) a mid-term review by the Government, SOCAR
and IDA, no later than May 1997, to review the progress in project implernentation and plans for follow-
up. Due to the urgency of the assistance with project preparation and management of the Guneshli field
rehabilitation, and the need for continuity in this work, this component of the Project will be the subject
of Advance Contracting (up to US$6.0 million), with the first phase of work undertaken under the PPF.
58.          Environmental Aspects. The proposed Project is not expected to have any significant
negative environmental impact, and has been classified as Category C under OD 4.01. Enviromunental
factors will receive close attention in all the investment and pJ licy studies and the environmental aspects
of energy investment and policy will be emphasized in the training components. The studies of the
Guneshli oil field and the older oil fields are expected to have a substantial environmental component,
and to provide recommendations for remediation measures and improvements in environmental standards.
59.          Project Benefits. The Project will help to address the problems of production decline and
lack of investment, coupled with institutional weakness which affect the petroleum sub-sector in
Azerbaijan. The acceleration of foreigni investment in oil production in Azerbaijan would bring substantial
macroeconomic benefits. With the assistance of the Project, the legislative framework for petroleum
exploration and production will be put into place, helping to rationalize the institutional responsibilities
in the petroleum sub-sector and to secure foreign investment. The project will also help to secure foreign
assistance in stemming the production decline in the Guneshli field, which will require an investment of
up to US$500 million over five years. Without such investment, Azerbaijan, which exported a net 1.9
mt of oil in 1993 (worth about US$200 mnillion at international prices), could become a net importer of
oil. Critical investment projects in oil field rehabilitation, gas processing and oil exports will be prepared
for private or public funding. SOCAR's capacity to manag,,e its business and deal with foreign investment
will be strengthened through assistance with training and information technology development.



-14-
60.           Project Risks. The Project carries two main risks. Firstly, there is the risk of delay in
implementation, which is being addressed through the early establishment of the PIU, and development
of an implementation schedule with effective IDA supervision. Detailed termns of reference have been
substantially agreed for the Project components, and PPF funding is being used for TA in procurement
preparation, thus ensuring rapid consultant selection, particularly of the key advisors to SOCAR.
Secondly, there is the risk that the results of the TA activities may not be followed-up. This risk would
be mitigated by ensuring that consultants work in close cooperation with local staff, who will then have
"ownership" of the work and an interest in implementation. Further, the Project has been designed to lay
the ground for the implementation of investment operations which are of high priority to the Government.
Finally, the Government and SOCAR will furnish IDA with planr,ed follow-up actions upon the
completion of each study and exchange views with IDA on these actions. A mid-term review will be held
by SOCAR, the Government and IDA to review progress in project impleinentation and plans for follow-
up actions.
61.          Caspian Sea Boundaries. The Project involves TA for- rehabilitation of producing oil
fields operated by Azerbaijan in the Caspian Sea. The international boundaries of the Caspian Sea have
not yet been established by international treaty. By supporting the Projeat, the World Bank does not
intend to prejudice the final determination of claims of the parties tc any dispute over Caspian Sea
boundaries.
62.          Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
Pn:sident
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
March 28, 1995
Attachments



-15-
Schedule A
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Cost Estimate and Financin! Plan
(US$ 000)
Local    Foreinn    Total    Forein    Total as
as % of     % of
Total    Total Base
Cost      Cost'
I.  iCost Estimate
a.   Support for Foreign Investment:
1. Financing/Contract Advice              400     4,300     4,700      91         22
2. Legal Advice                           100     1,160      1,260     92          6
3. Technical/Costing Advice               700     7,700     8,400      92         40
b.  Institutional Strengthening:
1. Petroleum Legislation                   50       400       450      89          2
2. Training                                50       400       450      89          2
3. Equipment-Computers/Communication       60       640       700      91          3
c.   Energy Sector Investment Studies:
1. Project Preparation                    300     3,050     3,350      91         16
d.   Components to be Identified:                       1,000     1,000
e.   Project Implementation                    100       650       750      87           4
Total Base Cost                         1,760    19,300    21,060      92
Contingencies                             100      1,000     1,100     91          5
f.   Refinancing Project Preparation           200       500       700      71           2
Facility (PPF)
PROJECT TOTAL COST                      2,060    20,800    22,860      91
HI.  Financins Plan
1.   Goverument/SOCAR                        2,060         0      2,060
2.  IDA                                          0    20,800    20,800
TOTAL FINANCING                         2,060    20,800    22,860
I/ Total may not add-up to 100% due to rounding.



-16-
Schedule B
Page I of 2
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement Methods'
(US$ million equivalent)
....
Project Element               ICB        LCB           Other      Non-IDA'        Total
Financed
1. Equipment                                            0.62          0.1          0.7
(0.6)                      (0.6)
2. Consulting
Services3
(a) Policy Support                                     13.9            1.3        15.2
(13.9)                     (13.9)
(b) Project Preparation                                 5.3            0.5         5.7
and Implementation                                 (5.3)                      (5.3)
Support
(c) Institutional                                       0.5            0.1         0.6
Development4                                       (0.5)                      (0.5)
(d) Training                                            0.5           0.1          0.6
(0.5)                      (0.5)
3. TOTAL COST                                          20.8            2.1        22.9
(20.8)                     (20.8)
lRepresents Azerbaijan Republic contribution.
2 Value of computers/communication/office equipment items/packages will not exceed US$300,000 and
will be procured on the basis of International Shopping.
3 Short List and selection of firms for consultant services to be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines; International Shopping for equipment.
4 Selection of consultants for legal consulting services will have the concurrence of the Legal
Department.
" Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts funded by IDA. Amounts rounded.



-17-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
Category                             Amount   % of Expenditures to be
lFinanced
1. Computer/Comrnunications/Office       0.6   100% of foreign
Equipment                                    expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory costs) and 75%
of expenditures for other
items procured locally.
2. Consulting Services'                  18.7   100% of expenditures
3. Unallocated Components to be           1.0   100% of expenditures
Identified
4. Refinancing Project Preparation        0.5   Amounts due as per PPF
Facility                                     Agreement
Estimated Total Disbursements           20.8
Does not include unallocated components.
Estimated Annual and
Cumulative Disbursement
(US$ million)
FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98    FY99
Annual                      0.1       3.6       6.7       6.6      3.8
| Cumulative                0.1       3.7      10.4      17.0     20.8



-18-
Schedule C
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                                      Six months
Prepared by:                                                The Govemment of Azerbaijan and
SOCAR with assistance from IDA staff
and consultants
First Mission:                                              February 1993
Appraisal Mission Departure:                                May 1994
Negotiations:                                               December 1994
Planned Date of Effectiveness:                              June 1995
1 Original Appraisal Mission Departure (scheduled for June 1993) was delayed due to political events. Preparation
was suspended between June 1993 and March 1994.
This Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP) was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission
that visited Azerbaijan in May, 1994. The mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. Michael Levitsky,
Task Manager; Ziad Alahdad, Principal Energy Specialist; Thomas O'Connor, Principal Petroleum Specialist;
Salem Ouahes, Senior Power Specialist; Shigeru Kubota, Gas Specialist; Dilek Barlas, Legal Counsel; Yelda Guven,
Operations Assistant; Kjell Aalandslid, Consultant; Gennady Vassiliev, Consultant; and Ronald F. Venezia,
Consultant. Jonathan Brown and Yukon Huang are the Division Chief and Department Director, respectively. Marc
Blanc provided operational guidance.



19-
Schedule D
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
As of March 31, 1995, Bank lending to Azerbaijan had not yet commenced.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
As of March 31, 1995, Azerbaijan was not yet a member of the IFC.



IBRD 24912
50o                                                                             511
AZERBAIJAN
OIL AND GAS FIELDS
'        GAS FIELDS
APSHERON                                                           r r
:      OIL FIELDS
*       REFINERIES
DARWIN                                                               RIVERS
|J DARWIN
MASHTAG -BUZOVNY               j;                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SURAKHANY
BALAKHANY-SA3UNCHI.RAMANY                          -           .                   ARTEM
8181 EYBAT       r      C        I;;                                                                  GUNESHLI
KARADAG                                                                                       OIL ROCKS
X  aAKHAR                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~CHIRAG 2
DUVANNYI                                                                     BAKHAR                               \                                                                                                      4 -
DANIZ~ 4  >  \AZERI
MISHOVDAG                      ALIATY                                                                    ST-UAC            /                                                                                    ICAAN
oULLA DANIZ
KYUROVDAG                                                                                                                                                                                           RUSSIAN
RUSSIAN
.                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERATION
KYURSANGYA                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This mop has been  ormpcrrd  31ird.
KCYUJRSANGYA                                                                                                                       by The  WOorld BaxeOnk'ser d Tn staffl                                  KAZAKHSTAN
eoiusltvei for the conven/nce*                   + 
KA Yof   ode   a nd  s fIo, the                ORGIA
KCARABAGLY                                                                                                                                         Intrnl5ue  f heWrlg4
0                                     25                                      50                amd  the  boundaries  shown
anti  cAenot ifoiK on theA EA
.________ _________ ________ _________ _________ ____ _   o    thsrt   of  rTo World S on   Group,I
any judgnent on the bcoil
DUROVDAG                               KILOMETERS  I                           I                      I                                                    andorsemntor   ormpanZ          TRKEYT
DUROVDAG                                ~           ~         ~~~~0 25                  50                    75                          suhbuicdtTURKME'JISTAN
.                                                                                                                                    q   ~~~~~~~~~~~     ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISMAMiC REF.P
OF IRAN
so0                                                                            510                               IRAQ
AUGUST 1993






