Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22113
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFB-P1920; IDA-27080)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.3 MILLION (US$20.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 31, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 7, 2001)
Currency Unit = Azerbaijannian Manat (AZM)
I Manat = US$ 0.0002
US$ I = 4624 Manats
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EU (TACIS)  European Union (Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States)
FID           Foreign Investment Department of SOCAR
FSU           Former Soviet Union
IDA           International Development Association
IT           Information Technology
MIS           Management Information System
MOP           Memorandum of the President
PC            Personal Computer
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PTAP          Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
PSA           Production Sharing Agreement
SOCAR         State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic
TA            Technical Assistance
UEIP          Urgent Enviromnental Investment Project
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager/Director:    Peter Thomson
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Michael Levitsky



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                      9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   14
10. Additional Information                                                            19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008282                                         Project Name: PETROLEUM TA
Team Leader: Michael Levitsky                               TL Unit: COCD1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Repor-t Date: May 31, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PETROLEUM TA                                     LICITF Nimber: PPFB-P1920;
IDA-27080
Countrj'iDepartment: AZERBAIJAN                                            Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector. GG - Oil & Gas Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/03/1992                                Effective: 08/23/1995          11/22/1995
Appraisal:  03/22/1994                                  MTR: 05/31/1997             10/27/1997
Approval:  04/20/1995                                Closing:  11/30/1999          11/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOV'T OF AZERBAIJAN/STATE OIL CO. OF AZER. REP. (SOCAR)
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johannes Linn                              Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:      Judy O'Connor                               Yukon Huang
Sector Manager.       Peter Thomson                               Jonathan C. Brown
Team Leader at ICR:   Michael Levitsky                           Michael Levitsky
ICR Primary Author:   Michael Levitsky; Jann
Masterson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Siustainiability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrowi'er Perjormance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Pr-oject at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the project as stated in the Memorandum of the President dated March 28, 1995
were: "(a) to accelerate foreign private investment and financial participation in petroleum exploration and
production through providing TA to SOCAR, particularly for restructuring of the Guneshli field; (b) to
strengthen petroleum sub-sector institutions through development of petroleum legislation, training, and
improvements in information systems; and (c) to prepare investment projects in the petroleum sub-sector,
through joint studies between SOCAR and foreign advisors."
The objectives were well aligned with the first Azerbaijan CAS (presented to the Board with the project).
Azerbaijan's oil sector was identified as a priority area for attracting foreign investment to stimulate
economic recovery. As a major oil producer and exporter for over a century, Azerbaijan had substantial
remaining producing reserves and a large legacy of infrastructure and institutions from the Soviet period.
This legacy required substantial restructuring and strengthening. In addition, large new oil reserves had
been identified offshore Azerbaijan, in the Caspian Sea, and there was significant interest from major
intemational oil companies in development of these reserves. Thus the country faced a dual challenge of
attracting foreign investors to the new offshore fields, and of restructuring its Soviet legacy of decaying
infrastructure and inappropriate institutions.
The issues facing the oil sector, and proposals for future action, were assessed in detail in the Azerbaijan
Energy Sector Review (Dec. 1993). The project was designed to meet the issues identified in the Review,
which were recognized by both IDA and the Govemment following considerable dialogue. The subsequent
evolution of Azerbaijan's economy, in which foreign-financed oil investment has been almost the only
support for economic revival, shows that IDA's early focus on the oil sector was justified.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The original description of the project in the MOP was as follows: "The project will provide TA in the
following areas of the petroleum sub-sector: (a) provision of resources to SOCAR to recruit financial, legal
and technical advisors for: (i) formulation and management of a project for the rehabilitation of the
Guneshli field, (ii) exploration and development of other fields and construction of related infrastructure,
(iii) legal studies on Caspian Sea boundary determination, (iv) development of an oil export pipeline, and
(v) petroleum licensing and exploration promotion (base cost: US$14.36 million); (b) development of a
legislative and fiscal framework for petroleum exploration and production (US$0.45 million); (c)
institutional strengthening of SOCAR through training, and introduction of information and communication
systems (US$1.5 million); (d) detailed investment and restructuring studies of the older oil fields, gas
processing facilities and oil export infrastructure improvements (US$3.35 million); (e) TA for a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) covering financial, procurement and project management services (US$0.75
million); and (f) an unallocated amount of US$ 1.0 million (foreign currency cost) to cover additional
project preparation activities and advisory services in the energy sector."
These components were well integrated with the objectives of the Project. However, since this was IDA's
first project in Azerbaijan, the number of components was perhaps ambitious. Yet the large size of the oil
sector in Azerbaijan, and its importance to the economy, may have rendered a smaller TA project, with
fewer components, insignificant. Moreover, the components selected already represented a focusing of
efforts on specific areas in which the Energy Sector Review had demonstrated that IDA intervention might
- 2 -



produce results. Thus the project excluded consideration of the downstream oil sector (oil refining and
marketing), despite its many problems, because of the absence of suitably motivated counterparts.
At the time that the project was designed, Azerbaijan and its oil sector were undergoing very rapid
evolution. While each component was supported by detailed Terms of Reference and costing, agreed with
SOCAR and the Government, it was recognized that changes would probably be required to the specific
project components during the course of implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Qutality at Entry:
There was no formal Quality at Entry review of this project at its initiation. Nonetheless, there are good
indications that care was taken to ensure that the project could be implemented effectively, and would
deliver sustainable results. In particular, the Development Credit Agreement set out conditions for
effectiveness which ensured that the project would be supported by a strong PIU (appointment of a
Director, adequate staff and accommodation, etc.). In addition, credit covenants were designed to ensure
commitment by SOCAR and the Government to effective project implementation, including: submission of
regular progress reports, preparation and submission of a mid-term review, and submission of a draft
Petroleum Law to Parliament (based upon TA funded under the project) by February 1996 (approximately
1 year after project initiation). Overall, therefore, considerable care was taken to ensure that the project
would have the best chance of succeeding, taking account of the lack of Bank lending experience and the
unstable situation in the country. The relatively strong performance of the PIU during most of the period of
project implementation demonstrates that project management was well designed, even if the record of
implementation of components (mostly outside the direct control of the PIU) was somewhat variable.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
Overall, the project can be judged to have achieved its Objectives, and is therefore rated as Satisfactory.
However, the achievement of objectives was stronger in some cases than others. Achievement was
negatively affected by the general difficulties in IDA operations in Azerbaijan, which were reflected in the
downgrading of Azerbaijan's IDA rating during the course of the project. Also, during the course of the
project, Azerbaijan became a major focus of interest and investment by foreign oil companies. The scale of
activity and investrnent involved may have overshadowed the relatively modest Petroleum TA Project.
Thus, it is not always easy to assess the contribution from the project in isolation from the broader impact
of foreign investment.
a)     Accelerate foreign private investrnent and financial participation in petroleum exploration and
production through providing TA to SOCAR. particularly for restructuring of the Guneshli field: During
the implementation of the project, Azerbaijan was extremely successful in attracting foreign petroleum
investors to the most promising areas offshore and onshore. A total of 21 Production Sharing Agreements
(PSAs) have been signed with international companies, and investments of several billion US Dollars have
already been made. Components of the project which helped SOCAR to deal with this influx of investment
more effectively included: training, study of Caspian boundaries issues, reservoir engineering development,
and information technology upgrading. With respect to the Guneshli field (specifically the Shallow Water
section operated by SOCAR which was the target of the project), no agreement with foreign investors has
yet been signed. However, a major review of the field by Westem engineers was completed, which caused
SOCAR management to accept the scale of the rehabilitation challenge to intemational standards. This
-3-



work also led to greatly improved understanding of the reservoir behavior and the costs of re-development,
and entailed significant knowledge transfer to the local offshore design institute. Using material from the
report, SOCAR has been making sizable investments in existing field infrastructure. SOCAR negotiated for
over two years with a major Westem oil company which wished to undertake field rehabilitation, and these
negotiations were based in part on the technical and economic analysis carried out under the project. These
negotiations broke down in 1999 due to failure to agree on commercial terms, and serious negotiations are
underway with a different major oil company.
b)     Strengthen petroleum sub-sector institutions through development of petroleum legislation,
training, and improvements in information systems: The Government decided early in the project's
implementation not to develop petroleum legislation under this project, in part because the legal framework
for petroleum was evolving in a somewhat different direction. With regards to training, significant
contributions were made to upgrading the skills of SOCAR staff through the financial and commercial
training program, and the reservoir engineering assistance. In addition, the design of project components
(e.g. investment feasibility studies, IT design, Caspian legal regime) incorporated a substantial training and
knowledge transfer element through close involvement of SOCAR staff. The objective of strengthening IT
systems was partially achieved, since the project financed the upgrading of IT equipment for reservoir
engineering and also funded the feasibility study and bidding process which has allowed SOCAR to
procure a crucial Management Information System meeting its requirements.
c)     Prepare investment projects in the petroleum sub-sector. through joint studies between SOCAR and
foreign advisors: This objective was fully achieved through the preparation of substantial investment
studies on the old onshore fields, the old offshore fields and the gas processing plant reconstruction (in
addition to the study of the Guneshli field). These studies elicited substantial interest from potential
investors (although specific investments have not yet been made), and have considerably enhanced the
understanding of SOCAR and of foreign investors of the challenges of restructuring the massive
infrastructure which SOCAR has inherited from the Soviet system. Through presentation of these reports
SOCAR gained experience in international promotion of petroleum projects.
4.2 Outputs by conmponents.
There were some adjustments to the specific components during the course of project implementation. The
components which were implemented generally produced satisfactory outputs. Details of the output by
components are described below.
Part A. Support for Foreign Investment in Petroleum Exploration and Production
Study of the Rehabilitation of the Shallow-Water Guneshli Field: Phase I of this work, which involved a
study of basic field characteristics, installations, investment options and costing was completed
satisfactorily. The study was formally accepted by SOCAR's Board in September 1996. SOCAR staff
worked with a reservoir engineering company in Norway. The study provided the basis for SOCAR's
negotiations with a major foreign oil company which made detailed proposals for a rehabilitation contract
to SOCAR (negotiations eventually broke down over commercial terms in 1999). An important result of
the study was recognition that the reservoir modeling capability of SOCAR and its affiliated institutes was
outdated, and this had led to likely misinterpretation of Guneshli field characteristics. Since this field is
SOCAR's major producing asset, this was a critical issue. It was decided to address this matter directly
within the project through development of a Reservoir Engineering Center, based upon the work done on
the Guneshli field (see Part B below). The original project plan had foreseen a Phase 2 of advisory work
on the Guneshli field, involving work with potential foreign investors. However, these funds were
reallocated to the Reservoir Engineering Center and SOCAR used the Phase I work and its own resources
- 4 -



in discussions with foreign companies concerning Guneshli.
Legal Study of Caspian Sea Riparian Issues: This study was undertaken by a highly qualified international
lawyer. The study involved consultation with SOCAR and the Azerbaijan Government. A final report
was delivered in October 1997, and was judged very useful by SOCAR and the Government. At the
request of SOCAR the study has remained confidential.
Financial and Commercial Advisors for Export Pipeline Negotiations: Due to the speed of events in 1995 to
1997, SOCAR did not procure advisors under the project for the first major set of pipeline negotiations in
1995 and 1996. In 1999 SOCAR requested IDA funding for advisors under the project, to deal with
anticipated negotiations on the Main Export Pipeline for oil. The need to procure such advisors was the key
factor behind the extension of the Closing Date for the project, from November 30, 1999 to November 30,
2000. Difficulties in drawing up an acceptable short list hampered implementation of this component.
Nearly all the qualified advisors were already committed to other work in the Caspian region which might
have conflicted with advising SOCAR. Eventually SOCAR and IDA agreed not to procure advisors due to
the delays in initating procurement.
Part B: Institutional Strengthening of the Petroleum Sub-Sector
Development of a Petroleum Law: The government decided at a late stage not to use IDA funds under the
project for this work. At the time (1995/96) Azerbaijan had already passed two PSAs as specific Laws by
Parliament, and was on the verge of passing a third such Law. There was concern that development of a
new Petroleum Law might cause uncertainty regarding this process. Foreign oil investors appeared to find
the Parliamentary endorsement of each PSA acceptable. The success of the PSA Laws in dealing with
foreign petroleum investment reduced the need for the comprehensive Petroleum Law envisaged under the
project. The government eventually obtained support from EU TACIS for work on a Petroleum Law, on a
grant basis. A draft law has been prepared and is being considered by Parliament. This component of the
project was therefore canceled and the funds made available for reallocation. The Covenant in the Loan
Agreement requiring submission of a Petroleum Law to Parliament by February 1996 was waived.
Financial and Commercial Training: A specialized petroleum industry training firm was selected for this
work and courses were run in Baku and in Boston during October 1997. About 250 SOCAR staff attended
the courses, and the training program was deemed highly satisfactory.
Management Information Systems: SOCAR and IDA agreed that a priority in this area was development
of a geological and geophysical data management system. This would allow SOCAR to acquire and
process data which the foreign oil companies were obliged to supply, and would also allow SOCAR to
convert and interpret its own data in a modem digital format. A specialized consulting firm was hired by
SOCAR to develop specifications and bidding documents, and the firm's recommendations and and the
draft bidding documents were approved by IDA. Bids were received in July 1999. However, following
receipt and opening of the technical and financial proposals, SOCAR raised with IDA new criteria which it
wished to take into consideration in selecting the MIS provider. According to SOCAR, after the initial
evaluation of the proposals had been completed, it became aware that the foreign oil companies had mostly
standardized their data in a specific format, and the critical criterion for an MIS system was therefore
complete compatibility with this particular format. This had not been adequately described in the bidding
documents. The lowest priced bid which was fully responsive to the bidding documents was deemed
unacceptable by SOCAR on the basis of the new compatibility criterion. SOCAR requested IDA's
permission to select a higher-priced bid which it now believed more closely met its requirements. IDA
informed SOCAR that this was not acceptable under IDA's Procurement Guidelines. Since SOCAR
-5 -



declined to complete the procurement process by selecting the lowest-priced responsive bid, IDA declared
misprocurement, and SDR 1,495,800 of the Credit was canceled. However, SOCAR did make considerable
use of the tender by proceeding to purchase the preferred system (as bid under the project) using its own
funds.
SOCAR also obtained the advice of a consulting firm in the design of a financial information system. The
initial report of the consultants was judged by IDA reviewers to be inadequate to proceed with a request for
bids, and due to time constraints imposed by the Closing Date, procurement for this component was not
implemented.
Reservoir Engineering Center: Following the successful study of the Guneshli field, in which SOCAR
specialists became acquainted with state-of-the-art reservoir modeling, it was decided to allocate part of the
funds for the Guneshli field component to design and procurement of a Reservoir Engineering Center (with
the Guneshli reservoir model as a core element of the Center's work). Design and procurement were duly
carnied out, by the same consulting firms which undertook the Guneshli work. The Center was formally
opened in 2000, and represents an important extension of SOCAR's technical capabilities.
Financial Audit of SOCAR: An audit of SOCAR was required under the Loan Agreement (in addition to
the annual audit of the project accounts). This was to be the first audit of SOCAR to Western accounting
standards. SOCAR's importance to the economy of Azerbaijan, and to the Government, made this an
important and sensitive aspect of the Project. A full audit of SOCAR also became an important policy
issue for IDA and IMF macro-lending. SOCAR selected a major international accounting firm to
undertake the audit for 1997/98. The auditors disclaimed any opinion in their 1997/98 audit, which was
delivered in March 2000. The auditors had two major reservations: firstly, the auditors had been refused
access to SOCAR's Aznefteyag refinery (representing some 20% of SOCAR's business), and secondly,
SOCAR's information systems and records were not suitable for an audit to international standards. IDA
insisted at the highest level of government that completion of the audit to include the Aznefteyag refinery
was a key policy issue. The auditors were given access to the Aznefteyag refinery in September 2000, and
the first full international audit of SOCAR (for 1997/98) was duly completed. Audits for 1999 and 2000,
although required in principle under the Loan Agreements, could no longer be funded from the project
because of the November, 2000 Closing Date. Moreover, the auditors have recommended that SOCAR
carry out substantial improvements in its intemal systems in order to provide information of a standard
suitable for intemational auditing, and SOCAR has been implementing these recommendations. Using the
1997/98 audits as a base, SOCAR has since commissioned (at its own expense) full audits by the same
intemational accounting firm for 1999 and 2000, representing major progress in transparency and
understanding of oil industry finances.
C. Energy Sector Investment Studies
Restructuring of the Old Onshore Oil Fields: A consulting firm was selected and produced a satisfactory
report in mid-1997. The consultants worked jointly with Azerbaijani counterparts. The reports presented
the data on the old oil fields in a manner accessible to potential Westem investors. "Road shows" were
held in London and Houston in August 1997, and a large number of companies attended and expressed
interest in the information. These events were reported in the intemational oil industry press. SOCAR was
able to sell 11 copies of the reports at US$25,000 each to potential investors, thereby recouping a portion
of the cost of this component (all funds from the sales were sent directly to SOCAR's Finance Department
for crediting towards SOCAR's repayment of its sub-loan from the Ministry of Finance). Although a few
investment proposals were received by SOCAR, they were not judged to be adequate. The report thus
indicated strongly that it would be difficult to attract credible Western investors to the most marginal
-6 -



onshore fields. The environmental component of these studies was regarded as particularly useful by
SOCAR, and has assisted at least one foreign investor to establish a remediation project on one of the most
polluted fields.
Restructuring of the Old Offshore Oil Fields: A consulting consortium was selected for this component in
January 1997. Substantial work was undertaken jointly with SOCAR counterparts, and satisfactory
reports were produced in July 1998. As with the Onshore Fields, promotional activities were undertaken in
London and Houston and there was coverage in the industry press. SOCAR also created a web site to
advertise the fields. Considerable interest was expressed by oil companies. However, commitment by oil
companies to investments was tempered by the very low oil prices in 1998.
Reconstruction of the Gas Processing Plant: Following selection of a qualified consulting firm in February
1996, the report was satisfactorily completed in January 1998. The consulting firm worked closely with
SOCAR experts from the existing Gas Processing Plant. The report was presented to potential investors in
July 1998. The report continues to be used extensively in discussions of further investment in gas
processing.
Urgent Environmental Investment Project (UEIP): In December 1997 an IDA environmental team
proposed to use certain PTAP funds for the preparation of the oil field clean-up component of the UEIP
Project (US$210,000). An Environmental Assessment and several bidding documents were prepared using
this funding.
E. Project Implementation Support
Advisory Services for Project Management and Procurement: SOCAR's PIU concluded a contract with a
foreign consulting firm with experience in project management in August 1995. This firm greatly assisted
PIU staff to manage the project. The contract was extended until November 1999.
Office Eguipment for the PIU: The PIU procured PCs, printers, a fax and other office equipment and
supplies for use at its office. Since the PIU was located within SOCAR's Foreign Investments Department,
this equipment is also available for use by other SOCAR staff.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic r ate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's impact has been mainly within SOCAR. The training provided both through the specialized
courses, and during implementation of studies, has upgraded the skills of the SOCAR workforce,
particularly for interaction with foreign investors. The Reservoir Engineering Center has had an important
impact in bringing a key part of SOCAR's analytical capability to intemational standards.
Since the Petroleum Law component of the project was canceled, developments in this area have been
proceeding separately from the project. A draft law has been prepared, which has been extensively
discussed and revised. This law is under consideration by Parliament. IDA's early dialogue with the
Government on the need for a comprehensive legal framework for petroleum investment probably assisted
in focusing attention on this area.
-7 -



The first audit of SOCAR to international standards, undertaken within the project, has been important in
improving understanding of the company in Azerbaijan and among foreign lenders. The audit is also
important in allowing SOCAR to start to move towards commercial operations and, eventually, towards
participation in international capital markets. By requiring completion of the audit, despite resistance from
the Aznefteyag refinery, the project has brought increased transparency to SOCAR.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgoverninent or implementing agenc.:
The ability of the project to contribute to SOCAR's negotiations with foreign companies for PSAs and
export pipelines was to some extent affected by the speed with which events unfolded in the Caspian region
during 1995 to 1999. Given the geo-political issues involved and the need of Azerbaijan for early revenue
and investment, the Governmnent had to react rapidly to interest from international investors. During this
period SOCAR signed some 17 PSAs, the US$2.0 billion Early Oil project went from initial planning to
full production, and SOCAR was involved in intensive preparation for a major oil export pipeline. The
rapid pace of events and intensity of activity made it difficult for SOCAR's Foreign Investments
Department to procure and involve new advisors, since it was leading the negotiation and implementation of
multiple agreements with foreign oil companies and governments. This problem was most notable in the
early years of the project. In general, the pressures of complex geo-political and commercial negotiations
may have detracted from attention to the project at the highest levels of SOCAR.
An additional factor was the volatility in oil prices during project implementation. Prices fell from an
average of between US$19 and US$20/barrel in 1996 and 1997, to a low of US$13/barrel in 1998, before
recovering in mid-1999 to average US$18/barrel in that year. The collapse in oil prices in 1998 had a
chilling effect on investor interest in the investrnent proposals prepared by SOCAR and its consultants
under the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors affected project performance, which were clearly within the government's control:
a)     Petroleum Law: The government's early decision not to utilize funds under the project to prepare a
Petroleum Law limited the impact of the project outside SOCAR. The government did eventually pursue
drafting of a Petroleum Law, but this has not yet been enacted.
b)    Implementation of IDA Projects: The ability of the SOCAR PIU to implement the project was
frequently compromised by interference from the Government. This in turn was related to the poor overall
performance of Azerbaijan in implementing IDA projects during the period in question. Changes in senior
government personnel during the project led to uneven commitment to the project.
c)    Institutional Arrangements in the Petroleum Sector: Azerbaijan has had no Ministry specifically
responsible for the Energy Sector. (In April 2001, the Government announced the formation of a Ministry
of Energy.) SOCAR reports directly to the President of the Republic. However, the Cabinet of Ministers,
and specific ministries, do have substantial control over implementation of IDA-financed projects, and there
is therefore a misalignment between the parts of the government interested in project objectives (SOCAR
and the Presidency), and the parts interested solely in project processing. Despite repeated promises of
reform, and plans to improve regulation and policy formulation in the petroleum sector, no action was
taken. Weak govemance and limited regulation impeded IDA's ability to find suitable counterparts in the
govemment for the work on the petroleum sector and caused unnecessary friction between SOCAR and the
- 8 -



Cabinet of Ministers.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to impleinenting agenlcy control:
Several factors were within the control of SOCAR:
a)     SOCAR Organization: The Foreign Investments Department gave the PIU good support and
SOCAR's top management usually delivered decisions promptly. However, despite the PIU's good record
in initiating and processing the project, the performance of other parts of the SOCAR organization
occasionally left much to be desired. It was often difficult for the PIU to obtain cooperation from other
parts of SOCAR, even with the support of SOCAR's President. In addition, in certain cases (for example
training and MIS) it was difficult for the PIU to identify any part of SOCAR which was willing or able to
take responsibility for implementation. While these problems were beyond the control of the PIU and the
Foreign Investments Department, they could have been dealt with through greater focus of SOCAR's
Board on implementation of the project.
b)    Negotiations Advisors: SOCAR could have benefited from making the effort, however substantial,
to utilize project funds to hire advisors for its many international negotiations. As previously stated,
SOCAR has been under great pressure to respond to international companies wishing to invest in
Azerbaijan. This has been compounded by the need to agree export routes for oil and gas and to manage
the complicated geopolitical situation in the Caspian region. In the process, SOCAR's small and dedicated
group of specialists capable of handling this work may at times have been overwhelmed. While the hiring
of petroleum negotiations advisors to assist with the work-load would have required significant diversion of
resources in the short term, it would have benefited SOCAR in the medium and long term. However, the
length of time needed to hire consultants under IDA procurement procedures also prevented SOCAR from
reacting to rapidly changing circumstances by using IDA-funded specialist advisors.
c)    MIS Procurement and Training: The misprocurement declared by IDA in respect of the MIS
resulted from several factors. One of these was SOCAR's belated recognition of the importance of
complete compatibility of its software with that of the international operators in Azerbaijan. In general, the
project suffered from SOCAR's weak capacity in IT, which IDA should probably have done more to
remedy through intensive supervision. SOCAR also has demonstrated a lack of focus in organizing
training, which caused SOCAR to underutilize the opportunities for training under the project, after the
successful initiation of the financial and commercial training in 1996-1997.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The IDA funds were lent to the Ministry of Finance, which signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, at a more
"commercial" interest rate and maturity, with SOCAR. This agreement has operated effectively and the
Subsidiary Loan has been repaid by SOCAR.
Disbursements under the project have been only 49% of the total original credit amount. The pace of
disbursements has also considerably lagged the projections in the MOP: by the time of the mid-Term
Report prepared by the SOCAR PIU in July 1997, only about 1% of the credit had been disbursed,
compared with 8% projected at appraisal. At the original closing date of November, 1999, only 37% of the
credit had been disbursed. These delays indicate that the projections in the MOP were probably
over-ambitious for the first project in Azerbaijan, but they also reflect project-specific factors which have
been noted above (e.g., the cancellation of 11% of the credit amount due to the MIS misprocurement). On
April 13, 2001, the undisbursed amount of SDR 5,776,272.10 was canceled.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability r ating:
The project's achievements are in general rated as "likely to be sustainable". Several of the components,
including those related to investment projects (such as the Guneshli project), were in part specific to the
time at which they were implemented. However, the general conclusions and methodology of these reports
will remain valid for investors for some time to come, since no other reports of this caliber are available for
most of these assets. SOCAR continues to discuss possible investments with foreign companies for the
older fields, Guneshli and the gas processing plant, and the studies provide a useful input into this process.
The training components generated additional skills and knowledge which SOCAR staff will continue to
use. Staff tumover in SOCAR is relatively low so the trained personnel generally remain in the company.
The study on Caspian Sea Riparian Issues remains a substantial and relevant legal reference for the
government and SOCAR in the continuing deliberations on a final status of the Caspian Sea.
The Reservoir Engineering Center funded by the project is now fully operational, and is expected to make a
substantial contribution to improving SOCAR's technical capabilities in future. Considerable staff training
in reservoir engineering and modeling has been undertaken under the project, which will strengthen
SOCAR's human resource base.
Although the project did not finance the Geological and Geophysical MIS due to the procurement issues
mentioned above, SOCAR did use its own funds to purchase its preferred system, at the same bid price and
specifications as under the IDA-supervised tender. Although the preferred system was not least cost (under
the tender definitions), the price of the system was substantially below market list prices, because of the
competition in the tender. The organization of the system specifications and of the bidding under the
project helped SOCAR to establish an essential and enduring capability to interface with the data generated
by foreign oil companies working in Azerbaijan. SOCAR has also used the preliminary work of the
consultant on the financial MIS to improve its information systems.
The SOCAR audit funded under the project marked an important milestone in the evolution of SOCAR as
a company. It forced greater transparency and identified essential actions to bring internal controls and
reporting up to international standards. Government policy is to increase SOCAR's commercial focus, and
consideration is being given to have SOCAR gain access to international capital markets. Having initiated
the process of intemational auditing under the project, SOCAR will find it difficult to turn back to the
previous non-transparent "state-agency" mode, given pressures from parts of the Government, civil society,
multilateral agencies, partner companies and potential commercial financiers. This is shown by SOCAR's
decision to continue the audits (using its own funds) for 1999 and 2000.
During project implementation, IDA's Country Assistance Strategy shifted its focus away from the energy
sector. However, from late 1999 onwards IDA and IMF attention has again focused on energy (and oil and
gas) as key elements of the reform program. This is reflected in the I-PRSP. Many of the insights gained
during the project are thus being used as building blocks for future reform.
6.2 Transition arranXgement to r egular operations:
Given the technical assistance nature of the project, there are few project financed assets to be maintained
once the project is completed. Continued use of the studies completed under the project was described
above in para 6. 1. The Reservoir Engineering Center, financed under the project, will continue to operate.
Regular operation of the Reservoir Engineering Center is now a component of SOCAR's Offshore Design
- 10-



Institute, and the Center is fully managed and maintained by this large institute.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was the first IDA Credit to Azerbaijan. The effort in preparation, and the identification of
counterparts, legal issues and implementation mechanisms was thus substantially greater than might
usually have been expected. The project was designed on the basis of the Energy Sector Review which had
been prepared in 1993, and the priorities reflected issues identified in the Review. Project preparation was
delayed by political instability in Azerbaijan in mid-1993.
The project had been preceded by a Project Preparation Facility, which was refinanced under the Credit.
This PPF was only partly focused on SOCAR, with part being devoted to preparation of assistance to the
petroleum equipment industry (also identified as important in Bank sector work), which was not pursued.
In this sense the project's eventual design reflected a focusing on a few key areas, and on SOCAR, from
among a wide range of competing priorities. Under the circumstances in Azerbaijan at the time, the project
team was justified in keeping the structure of the project relatively simple. The project team made suitable
arrangements to obtain evidence of high level commitment to the project, but this was difficult to convert
into actual deeds due to rapid changes in the government in the period 1993 to 1995.
The project was originally designed as an IBRD-financed operation. Just before the scheduled Board
presentation date, however, Azerbaijan was converted to an IDA-only country, and the financing and Board
Documents had to be revised. The delay of several months in Board presentation contributed to some loss
of momentum for the project in its initial phase, as well as to some confusion on the part of the Borrower
about how the World Bank functioned.
7.2 Sulpervision:
Like many Technical Assistance projects with multiple components, the project was relatively demanding
of supervision resources. The resource requirements were increased by the inexperience of Azerbaijan with
IDA borrowing. However, the high quality of the PIU staff and their early engagement of advisors helped
to limit implementation problems in comparison with some projects in transition economies.
The project was supervised by three task managers in five years, due to staff rotation. This may have
affected the quality of supervision, given the time required for staff to develop understanding and trust in
Azerbaijan. Supervision did weaken somewhat during 1997 to 1999, and IDA management eventually
rearranged task management responsibilities to address this problem. IDA's supervision at times suffered
because some task managers had limited specialist expertise in oil and gas, and also did not obtain
sufficient support from IT specialist staff.
During the period in question, the focus of country strategy shifted away from assisting the energy sector as
a key component of economic recovery, towards a strong focus on civil service reform, and on the social
and rural sectors. The lack of likely follow-on work in energy diminished the perceived importance of
building on the Petroleum TA project as the first in a potential series of energy sector operations.
Moreover, the scaling back of the IDA program in Azerbaijan due to poor implementation and policy
performance may have led to less funds being used for supervision than might otherwise have been the
case. In order to achieve all the objectives of the project, and to implement a larger proportion of the
planned components, substantial IDA resources would have been needed to cooperate with the PIU in
dealing directly with counterparts in SOCAR and the government. The only area in which IDA brought
- 11 -



substantial country management resources to bear was in performance of the SOCAR audit, and in this
case demonstrable results were achieved.
Conceming the problem of bidding and misprocurement of the MIS system, IDA staff were placed in a
difficult position by SOCAR's desire to alter the selection criteria after bids had been received and
technical evaluation had taken place. Substantial time was spent in reviewing the procurement of this
component, and as a result IDA responses were at times rather slow. However, the course of events gave
IDA little choice in the end but to declare misprocurement. It is not clear to what extent the inadequate
technical requirements in the bidding documents were due to incomplete advice from the specialized
consultants, but this may have played an important role given SOCAR's lack of in-house experience in this
area. IDA's supervision can be faulted here, since not enough specialized staff resources appear to have
been committed to reviewing the consultants' report and the bidding documents. Regarding IDA
procurement advice, it may have been better to require a two-stage bidding process (technical and price
bids opened separately), rather than the one-stage process approved. The one-stage process assumed that
the technical requirements of the system were relatively standardized and straightforward, which turned out
not to be the case in the all-important area of the proprietary software, where different systems turned out
to have very different compatibility characteristics. This issue could have been identified at an early stage
if an appropriate specialist in petroleum IT had reviewed the procurement arrangements on behalf of IDA.
It should also be noted that there was little encouragement given by IDA to staff in SOCAR who were
trying to use the investment studies to attract investors (for example, IDA staff did not accompany SOCAR
on presentations to international investors as had often been done in such projects). Moreover, IDA did not
follow up key policies suggested by the investment studies by mobilizing further assistance or by
incorporating the policies in the country dialogue. A case in point relates to the old oil fields, where the
financial losses, employment issues and environmental problems identified could have been the focus of
IDA policy dialogue similar to that undertaken for old coal mines in other parts of the FSU.
7.3 Overall Bank peiformance:
Overall IDA performance is rated Satisfactory. While the quality of supervision weakened during 1997
-1999, this was fully addressed by the rearrangement of task management, and supervision improved
markedly in the final year of the project. It should also be noted that more could have been done to help
SOCAR with implementation in certain cases, although this may not have been possible within the limits of
the available supervision budgets.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower assisted considerably in the preparation of the project, with various parts of SOCAR
providing guidance on project design and priorities. However, as stated earlier, SOCAR's capacity was
stronger in certain areas (such as oil field investments) than in others (such as training and IT). The
government, having committed to the project, also assisted with preparation in key Ministries (e.g. Ministry
of Finance), which required particular effort as this was the first IDA operation in the country.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government designated certain counterparts for the work on the Petroleum Law (i.e. the relevant
administrative unit of Parliament), but subsequently changed the counterparts (to the Office of the
President and the Cabinet of Ministers) in a manner which prevented implementation of the component.
The government also did not maintain continuous commitment to the project, partly due to frequent changes
in staffing, particularly during 1995 to 1997 (a critical period for project implementation). During these
years there were general problems with implementation of IDA projects in Azerbaijan. There was some
- 12 -



improvement in government performance from 1999, although by this time the project was perhaps too far
behind schedule to fully meet the implementation plan.
7.6 Inipletnenting Agency:
SOCAR identified the Foreign Investment Department as being responsible for overall management of the
project from the outset, and this greatly assisted project preparation. The Director of the PIU was also the
Deputy Manager of the Foreign Investments Department, and the Deputy Director of the PIU was located
within this Department. This gave the PIU ready access to SOCAR's top management, including the
President, resulting in quick turnaround for key decisions.
The PIU staff were exceptionally capable, in part because the Foreign Investments Department has retained
some of the most outstanding specialists and managers in SOCAR given its importance in negotiating terms
for large foreign investments. The PIU created joint implementation groups with other parts of SOCAR in
an attempt to facilitate implementation. However, the PIU could not directly influence SOCAR's many
departments, in which implementation capacity, and sometimes the commitment to the project's objectives,
was less strong. Thus while PIU administration of the project was very good, the performance of the parts
of SOCAR implementing project components (e.g. oil field departments, IT department, training
department etc.) was variable.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperfornance:
The overall performance of the Borrower can be considered Satisfactory, but only if due allowance is made
for the difficult business environment within which the project was implemented. A key reason for the
Satisfactory rating is the strong performance of the SOCAR PIU in managing the project and in preventing
difficulties in implementation from becoming a cause for cancellation of the project and concomitant
failure.
8. Lessons Learned
As the first operation in a country which has not had a strong record of IDA project implementation, the
project can be regarded as moderately successful. Several lessons can be learned from this project:
The positive lessons from the Project are:
1)    Management: The project was able to retain a capable PIU within SOCAR, which provided
consistency in project administration. One of the reasons for this was the location of the PIU within the
Foreign Investments Department, which is the part of SOCAR best equipped to deal with implementation
of agreements with foreign entities. This suggests that similar IDA projects would also benefit from trying
to access staff dealing with foreign investments in implementing agencies where capacity is limited.
2)     Flexibility: Because of the difficulties encountered by both SOCAR and IDA in defining fully all
priority components during project preparation, the ability to alter the content of components was
important (e.g. from project development to the Reservoir Engineering Center). This demonstrates the
importance of flexible implementation and design in multi-component TA projects.
3)     Follow up to Sector Work: Some of the key project components which were implemented (esp. the
investment studies of the old fields and gas processing) were chosen as a result of detailed Energy sector
work. This allowed the project to focus on areas where the knowledge base for policy decisions was
lacking, and where responsive counterparts were likely to be found (hence the project's exclusion of the
SOCAR refining Department which was shown to be rather uncooperative in the course of the independent
- 13-



audit). The execution of the studies by the consultants was thus relatively successful.
There are areas where lessons can be learned from the problems encountered by the project:
4)     Project Design: Despite attempts to keep project design relatively simple, the desire to incorporate
the Petroleum Law component into the project greatly complicated the design (requiring implementing
entities in government as well as in SOCAR). On balance, given the challenges of working with a new IDA
member country, it would have been better to keep the design even simpler, and to attempt to obtain grant
funds or other assistance for components outside SOCAR, such as the Petroleum Law.
5)    IDA Support: Project implementation probably required more IDA support than estimated at the
outset. The project team overestimated SOCAR's ability to organize itself, given administrative support
from a strong PIU. SOCAR is quite de-centralized and is not well structured, which hindered
implementation of key components (e.g. training, MIS). If the IDA budget for stronger supervision
support was not available, the project could have been focused on fewer key components.
6)     Specialized Supervision: The misprocurement of the MIS system was in part the result of
insufficient specialized review in IDA. In cases where very specific technical expertise is required it is
esssential that suitable specialists are available, and that IDA provide the budget for this.
7)    IDA Follow-up: IDA did not provide follow-up advice or support for the investment studies as they
were being presented to potential investors. The studies addressed vital issues for Azerbaijan's petroleum
sector, and indeed for its economy, and were the first serious work of their kind. They were intended to
provide a foundation for further work, both by private investors and potentially by IDA or other donors. In
practice, no attempt was rnade by IDA staff to follow up on issues identified in the reports in a timely
manner, in 1997 and 1998, although this could have been done using Trust Funds, by mobilizing other
lenders or by attracting private investors. More impact from the project could also have been achieved by
incorporating key policy actions implied by the studies into the country dialogue and lending program.
This demonstrates the need to follow-up key issues identified through TA with further support through IDA
staff engagement, additional funding and policy dialogue.
8)     Coordination with Country Strategy: The project was designed at a time when support for
Azerbaijan's energy sector was a priority under the CAS (the Petroleum TA Credit was followed by the
Gas System Rehabilitation Project in 1996). After 1996, however, Bank strategy changed significantly,
with little attention being devoted to the energy sector (in spite of its overwhelming importance to the
economy), and a strong focus on such areas as civil service reform, and social and rural sector operations.
This led to limited management attention to supervision of energy projects, and to a lack of longer term
perspective on the relationship between IDA and SOCAR. While IDA needs to adjust its priorities in each
CAS, it is important that strategy not be refocused so sharply that projects in certain sectors are effectively
left as "orphans" under a new set of tightly constrained priorities.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Bor}owver/implementing agency:
Azerbaijan Petroleum Technical Assistance Project - Post Review Report by SOCAR's Project
Implementation Unit
Partner comments (by Implementing Agency)
- 14 -



1. Evaluation of Project Tasks and Objectives:
Over the course of its implementation, the Petroleum TA Project has been restructured several times
reflecting the rapid changes the petroleum industry in Azerbaijan has been undergoing in recent years.
Thus, the Government and SOCAR requested a reallocation of project funds from advisory services
towards information technology and training.
While the original objectives of the project remained essentially the same, the focus had shifted from
assistance in negotiations with international oil companies and support in attracting international
investors to a strengthening of SOCAR's capacity to better manage its operations, in particular its
finances.
In parallel, the project, also supported strengthening of SOCAR's capacity to deal more effectively
with foreign investors. This includes financial and commercial training, English language training,
advisory services by expatriate consultants to the PIU, a legal study on the sectoral delineation of the
Caspian Sea and support for establishing a Reservoir Engineering Center.
A great emphasis was put on consequent strengthening of SOCAR's management. This has to be
accomplished through the design of a management information system.
2. Summary of Project Implementation by Components
Although not in the full scale, the project has achieved its original twin objectives, being:
- accelerating foreign private investment in Azerbaijan's petroleum sector, in particular through the
restructuring of the Guneshli oil field and      preparation of investment projects; and
- strengthening SOCAR through the development of petroleum legislation, training and improvements
in information systems.
Part A: Support for Foreign Investments in Petroleum Exploration and Production and
Part C: Petroleum Production and Investment Studies
a. Caspian Boundaries Legal Study: The contract for this study was awarded to and undertaken by
an internationally recognized expert in marine law. He successfully completed his work by July 1997.
SOCAR found the study very helpful, and asked IDA for further assistance in the negotiations with
the other countries that border the Caspian about its sectoral demarcation. IDA felt that it could not
provide unilateral assistance to only one of the countries. Thus, SOCAR used their own funds to
finance further assistance in this area.
b. Guneshli Rehabilitation Preparation (Phase 1): This component was planned to be implemented in
two phases. Phase I of this component has been completed by an alliance of two foreign companies.
The scope of services included both carrying out of an investment rehabilitation study, and
preparation of the Guneshli oilfield model. Also, SOCAR benefited from extensive technical training
program, provided by the above alliance. The program covered various aspects of reservoir modeling
and was undertaken in both SOCAR and the consultants' premises.
c. Old Onshore Fields Rehabilitation Study: An experienced consulting firm has been appointed to
undertake this assignment. At the request or SOCAR (and in addition to the contract financed under
- 15-



this project), the consultants have opened two 'data rooms' where potential investors interested in the
rehabilitation of the oil fields covered by this study could purchase the information packages. Many
potential investors have purchased packages, and a number of them have submitted proposals.
Despite great interest in the project among international oil companies, extraordinary fluctuations of
the oil price have affected the redevelopment agreement negotiations.
d. Mature Offshore Fields Study: A consulting consortium have completed their work on the mature
offshore fields rehabilitation study. As in the case of the mature onshore fields, SOCAR had used this
study to invite investment proposals for the rehabilitation of the offshore fields in Azerbaijan Sector of
the Caspian Sea. As a result of intensive marketing program, jointly undertaken by SOCAR and the
consultants, several promising proposals have been received.
e. Gas Processing Plant Reconstruction Study: The feasibility study for the rehabilitation of this
plant has been completed by qualified consulting firm.
General Conclusion: With the completion of certain studies and project reports about important
investment opportunities, such as the rehabilitation of the gas processing plant, the rehabilitation of
older onshore and offshore fields; SOCAR is now in position to seek investors for areas that are
critical for the country (e.g. increasing gas supplies) and that have important social and environmental
dimensions (rehabilitation of older onshore and offshore oil fields). These projects are at best
marginal financially and perceived as being outside the scope of the oil majors with their substantial
overheads. Completion of these studies makes it easier for SOCAR to capture attention of smaller
companies who do not have the budgets to undertake their own studies but, by virtue of the smaller
overheads, can tackle marginal fields.
Part B: Institutional Strengthening
I. Development of Petroleum Legislation: In the Credit Agreement signed with IDA, the Governmnent
undertook to prepare Petroleum Legislation under the Project for submission to Parliament by
February 1996. Later, at the request of the Government, this component aimed for the preparation of
a draft petroleum legislation was transferred to EU TACIS. Thus, IDA funds had been substituted by
equivalent EU-TACIS funds for this component.
II. Strengthening through acquisition of computing and communication equipment and technologies.
and specialized training programs.
a. MIS Design and Database System for SOCAR: The aim of this component was to provide
SOCAR with state-of-the-art computerized management information system with a database designed
to meet SOCAR's information and data processing needs in the medium termn and telecommunications
equipment that would connect electronically SOCAR's far-flung operations to a central information
unit and thus provide managers of all units access to critical information.
A large database system to international standards would provide for data capture, transmission,
electronic storage and manipulation of data relating to SOCAR's principle activities in exploration
and production. This will include physical and financial data for fields operated by SOCAR and by
foreign companies.
The contract for the design phase was awarded to a specialized consulting firm. Within the
frameworks of their scope, company prepared an umbrella MIS plan and the bidding documents for
- 16-



actual procurement and installation of the respective computer and telecommunication equipment and
programs.
Upon careful consideration of trends of the rapidly changing information technologies, as well as Y2K
problem, SOCAR has come to a conclusion not to proceed immediately with the second
(procurement/installation) stage under IDA financing. Thus, SOCAR management decided to leave it
outside the framework of the PTAP. With unexpectedly high oil prices, SOCAR has purchased the
Geological/Geophysical Database and Financial/Accounting Information System using their own
funds.
b. Commercial and Financial Training: SOCAR was extremely satisfied with a specialized petroleum
industry training firm's performance and that the results and experience with this training program will
be utilized in the design of other programs that can be undertaken in the future. One of the main
positive outcomes of this component was the English language and oil economics training provided
under the contract with the training firm. As a part of their contractual obligations, the training firm
had sent five SOCAR staff to its Boston-based management program on intemational oil and gas
management.
However, SOCAR has been receiving numerous offers for training from intemational oil companies
that obviates the need for next phases of this component. This is why the decision had been made to
cease use of the credit funds for training needs.
c. Advisory services to support the SOCAR PIU: Two contracts were executed to appoint
respectively short- and long-term technical consultants to support the Project implementation.
A short term consulting contract was awarded to an individual consultant in 1995. The task has been
successfully completed.
SOCAR is also highly satisfied with the work performed by the foreign consulting firm appointed for
assistance in project management in 1995-1999. The company performed valuable on the job training
for the PIU staff. It also established a number of the project management systems and procedures,
such as accounting, reporting, risk management, etc. In order to meet the numerous changes in the
structure of the Petroleum TA, the expiry date of the contract with the consultant was extended, as
were the contract work scope and budget.
d. Pilot Clean-up Projects. Preparation Phase: In December 1997, an IDA environmental team,
having considered the tight schedule for preparation of IDA's Urgent Environmental Investments
Project (UEIP), proposed to use certain PTAP funds for preparation of this new project. An alliance
of two companies, appointed for this assignment, prepared an Environmental Assessment (in
cooperation with experts of the Azerbaijan State Committee on Ecology) and a number of the Bidding
Documents. Preparation of these documents was stipulated as a condition of the review and approval
of the UEIP by IDA's Board.
e. Audit of SOCAR's Corporate and Project Accounts: Under its agreement with the IDA, SOCAR
was required to have the Project Accounts audited annually by an independent auditor to international
standards. This task was undertaken by a world-renowned company.
In addition to annual audits of the project accounts, SOCAR has undertaken the overall audit of its
corporate accounts. This was not only a requirement that stems from the Project Agreement, SOCAR
- 17 -



has signed with the Bank, but also essential for any efforts on the part of SOCAR to obtain
commercial credit abroad, as well.
Indeed, the importance of the above auditing project for SOCAR cannot be overestimated. SOCAR, a
state owned company with huge turnover, with tens of major units and amalgamations and with more
than 70 thousand employees, has never been audited before. This was a significant obstacle in its
moving towards international market (financial market, first of all). Also, successful integration of
SOCAR into world economy requires a shift to intemational accounting standards.
The contract for auditing of SOCAR's corporate accounts was awarded to a very authoritative
company. An important output of this audit was the package of recommendations made by auditor,
aimed to improve the existing Financial/Accounting Management Information System. The Auditor
provided a structured training program specially tailored for different levels of SOCAR's financial and
accounting specialists and management.
f. Establishment in SOCAR of Reservoir Modelina Center. RMC (Guneshli Field Rehabilitation,
Phase II!: Under this component, SOCAR intended to obtain a complete reservoir engineering
capability in Baku, including specialized computer work stations, software and training. SOCAR
continued its cooperation with the alliance awarded the contract for preparation of the Guneshli
Rehabilitation project.
The workscope provided for training of about 50 staff, the provision of computers and software.
Since the training would aim at developing a model for the Guneshli field, it intended to facilitate the
negotiations with interested investors.
In the light of the fact that this component strengthened SOCAR's capacity in an area that is critical
for its efforts to attract foreign investment, establishment of an RMC is among the matters of great
importance.
3. Operational Experience and Other Benefits Derived from the Project
SOCAR counterpart teams (both PIU and each component working group) have proved themselves by
performing a highly professional job. Because of the diverse structure of SOCAR each case required
the involvement of many people from different divisions, all the requisite support and assistance was
provided to the entire satisfaction of SOCAR.
Personnel of the Foreign Investments Department acting as the PIU have been very successful in
learning the Bank's procurement policy, procedures, disbursement arrangements, accounting
procedures, reporting and auditing procedures. Having gained both valuable knowledge and
experience SOCAR's PIU continue working as the Component Implementation Unit, providing the
implementation of the Oil Clean-up of the separate Urgent Environmental Investment Project.
4. The Borrower and Bank Performance
The Borrower's Performance: In the initial stages of the Project, some delays were encountered due
to the need to clarify issues with the govenmment, especially the Ministry of Foreign Economic
Relations and the Tax Inspectorate. The Ministry of Finance showed good understanding for the
problems of the implementation of the project. As far as the Cabinet of Ministers is concemed, there
was always full understanding and support, in particular from Mr. Sharifov, deputy prime minister of
-18 -



the Azerbaijan Republic.
SOCAR, as was agreed as the local contribution of the borrower, provided the PIU with personnel,
salaries, office accommodation and the appropriate equipment and computer hardware. Telephone
lines (including an intemational one) were provided. The PIU was set up within the FID structure as
department for interrelation with intemational financial institutions and banks.
As a unit within the structure of one of the departments of SOCAR, the PIU did not possess sufficient
autonomy or independence, did not have the right to sign financial documents or to spend funds (even
on consumables such as paper, cartridges, etc.), and did not have the right to sign any official
documents on behalf of the borrower. All payments were made through the SOCAR Central
Accounting Department, later reorganized as the Financial and Economic Department, and as a rule,
from the Credit Account. The not very active use of the Special Account is explained both by the
specifics of the contracts concluded (basically, fixed price contracts) and a complex intemal
procedure. The bureaucratic delay caused each time by International Bank of Azerbaijan Republic
(IBAR) when funds were transferred from Washington should separately be noted. The PIU were
forced to make explanations to the IBAR regarding the financial credit mechanisms of the Bank in
general and the Petroleum TA project in particular.
IDA's Performance: As has already been noted above, the reason for the restructuring on several
occasions of the Project has been the rapid evolution of the oil industry. The Bank and its
management must be given their due: as a rule they have demonstrated understanding for the requests
of the borrower conceming various changes in the structure of the Project.
However, in the course of the implementation of the project both Procurement Guidelines were
subjected to review by the Bank, as well as the Standard Tender Documents, which (given all other
problems) did not facilitate the acceleration of the implementation of the Project.
It should be noted before reorganization of the system/structure of the Bank itself its response to the
requests and wishes of Borrower were more constructive and effective and less bureaucratic.
During the implementation of the Project three managers of IDA's team were replaced in turn. One
cannot say that the management continuity significantly suffered, but it indubitably left its mark.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Intl~~~~~~~ lciorMrl         Projected;; S00in lat00 PSR i:        ActualLates Estitii;V0000i mate       0X
Negotiation and implementation of project for                                A major review of the Guneshli field was
rehabilitation of the Guneshli field, with                                   completed, and negotiations were held with a
foreign investment.                                                          major Western oil company, although these
negotiations broke down in 1999, and
negotiations began with another major oil
company.
Development and implementation of projects Feasibility study for rehabilitation of the gas
for financing by foreign investors and  processing plant was completed. Study on
intemational financial institutions for other   rehabilitation of old onshore fields completed
mature offshore fields, old onshore fields,   and 2 data rooms for investors interested in
construction of new gas processing plant   the rehabilitation of these fields were opened.
and other significant projects.       Study completed on the old offshore fields.
SOCAR capacity strengthened in terms of   250 SOCAR staff trained by 12/31/98. MIS
foreign language skills, and intemational    specifications & bidding documents were
commercial business practices through:  developed under the Project. Although the
intensive training of at least 200 staff in  funds for this component were cancelled,
English language and petroleum commercial SOCAR purchased the MIS system with its
practice; development and installation of    own resources.
MIS.
Negotiation of financing for Baku-Ceyhan oil                                 SOCAR did not seek financing of
pipeline; negotiation of basic agreements for                                negotiations advice.
gas export.
Indicators taken from the Project Status Reports (PSRs).
Please note that at the time of project appraisal, the Logical Framework Approach was not being used.
Output Indicators:
wndIatoMtix                         PrjeteIn as  SRAcuYltet2*iIa
Project Proposal for Rehabilitation of                                       A major review of the Guneshli field was
Guneshli Oil Field Phase I.                                                  completed, and negotiatons were held with a
major Western oil company, although these
negotiations broke down in 1999, and
negotiations began with another major oil
company.
Reservoir Engineering Center (rehabilitation                                 Design and procurement of a Reservoir
of the Guneshli Oil Field Phase II).                                         Engineering Center were completed and the
Center opened in 2000.
MIS System for SOCAR.                                                        Consulting firm developed specifications and
bidding documents, but during the bid
evaluation SOCAR realized that there was a
compatibility problem between the system
proposed by the lowest bidder and the
systems used by intemational oil companies.
Since SOCAR could not accept the lowest
bidder, it purchased the MIS system from its
own resources.
Financial and Accounting Information                                         Bidding documents were prepared but
System.                                                                      required considerable revision and
procurement could not be completed by the
closing date, so was abandoned.
Concrete project proposals to address                                        Feasibility study on restructuring the old
problems of old onshore fields, and                                          onshore oil fields was completed and road
presentation to potential investors.                                         shows were held in London and Houston
where a number of companies expressed
interest.
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaULatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisa
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
A. Support for Foreign Investment in Petroleum
Exploration and Production:
1. Financing/Contract Advice                       4.70           0.00              0
2. Legal Advice                                    1.26            0.32           0.25
3. Technical Costing Advice                        8.40            3.41           0.41
B. Institutional Strengthening of the Petroleum Sub-Sector:
1. Petroleum Legislation                           0.45           0.00              0
2. Training                                        0.45            0.35           0.78
3. Equipment-Computers/Communication TA            0.70            0.32           0.46
4. SOCAR Audit                                     0.00            1.31             0
C. Energy Sector Investment Studies:
1. Project Preparation                             3.35           3.10            0.93
D. Components to be Identified:                       1.00           0.21           0.21
E. Project Implementation                            0.75            1.22           1.63
F. Refinancing Project Preparation Facility          0.70            0.13           0.19
Total Baseline Cost                                 21.76           10.37
Price Contingencies                                  1.10
Total Project Costs             22.86          10.37
Total Financing Required             22.86           10.37
Project Costs by Procurem    Arrangements Apraisal Estimate US$ million e uvalent) _
Procurement Method'
Expendihure Categoty      ICB          NC. Mthod                  N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.60          0.10         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.60)       (0.00)       (0.60)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         20.20         2.00        22.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (20.20)       (0.00)       (20.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.00         0.00         20.80         2.10         22.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (20.80)       (0.00)       (20.80)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts funded by IDA, and have been rounded.
- 22 -



2/ Value of individual packages for computers/communication/office equipment items will not exceed
US$300,000 and will be procured on the basis of international shopping.
Short List and selection of firms for consultant services to be procured in accordance with IDA
Guidelines.
Selection of consultants for legal consulting services will have the conculTence of the Legal
Department.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         0.00            0.00          0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.02          0.02
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           9.49           0.73          10.22
(0.00)         (0.00)         (9.49)         (0.00)        (9.49)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.13           0.00          0.13
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.13)         (0.00)         (0.13)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00            0.00          0.00
_______________________  (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00           9.62           0.75          10.37
(0.00)         (0.00)         (9.62)         (0.00)         (9.62)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
3/ Miscellaneous is refinancing of PPF.
4/A negligible amount ($5,104.82) was disbursed against goods (computers and office equipment), but is too small to
appear due to rounding.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
C|noen                      p 0:T*a!tl Estu                   L iL$ e.s.aAt! yEstimate  -    -       -
< 0 ::.X00_.__                00tiwt.   ____       Rau        Go.        C00\004 t 0XF.0 000 :'it   Govt.  C e<:.
Support for Foreign
Investment:
1. Financing/Contract     4.30      0.40                                                0.0    0.0
2. Legal Advice           1.16      0.10                 0.30       0.02               25.9   20.0
3. Technical/Costing      7.70       0.70                 3.05      0.36                39.6   51.4
Advice
Institutional
Strengthening:
1. Petroleum Legislation  0.40      0.05                                                0.0    0.0
2. Training               0.40      0.05                  0.25      0.10                62.5   200.0
- 23 -



3. Equipment,             0.64      0.06                 0.30      0.02               46.9   33.3
Computers,Comm.
4. SOCAR Audit                                           1.27      0.04
Energy Sector Invesment
Studies:
1. Project Preparation    3.05      0.30                 2.95      0.15               96.7   50.0
Components to be          2.00      0.10                 0.20      0.01               10.0   10.0
Identified
Project Implementation    0.65      0.10                 1.17      0.05               180.0  50.0
Refinancing Project       0.50      0.20                 0.13                         26.0   0.0
Preparation Facility
TOTAL                    20.80      2.06                 9.62      0.75               46.2   36.4
In the appraisal estimate, components to be identified also includes US$1.0 million of contingencies under
IDA financing, and US$0.1 million under Govt. financing.
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cytce                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty                       Progress       Objecfive
Identification/Preparation
02/1993                          1 Mission Leader, I Division
Chief, I Principal Petroleum
Specialist, I Senior Power
Engineer, I Senior Refining
Specialist, I Energy Economist,
I Petroleum Engineer, I Finance
Systems Consultant
09/1993                          1 Mission Leader
01/1994                          1 Mission Leader, I Senior Gas
Engineer, I Operations Assistant
04/1994                          1 Mission Leader
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/1994                          1 Mission Leader, I
Principal Energy Specialist,
I Principal Petroleum
Specialist, I Senior Power
Specialist, I Gas Specialist,
I Legal Counsel, I
Operations Assistant, I
Consultant Petroleum
Engineer - Offshore, I
Implementation Consultant,
I Consultant Procurement
Specialist
Supervision
05/1995                      1   1 Task Manager                       S               S
02/1996                      2   1 Task Manager, I Gas                S               S
Specialist, I Petroleum
Specialist, I Lawyer, I
Training/Computerization
Specialist, I Implementation
Specialist
Annual Update; No mission           U               S
06/1996                      3   1 Task Manager, I Energy             S               S
Specialist
10/1996                      4   1 Task Manager                       S               S
02/1997                      5   1 Task Manager, I Economist, I       S               S
Petroleum Engineer, I Reservoir
Engineer, I Financial Analyst,
10/1997                      6   1 Task Manager, I Petroleum          S               S
Engineer, I Energy Economist,
- 26 -



06/1998                      7   1 Task Team Leader, I                S               S
Petroleum Engineer, I
Consultant
09/1998                      8   1 Team Leader,                       S               S
02/1999                      9   1 Team Leader, I Consultant          S               S
06/1999                     10   I Team Leader, I Consultant, I
Operations Officer (No PSR
prepared following mission)
10/1999                     11   I Mission Leader, I Operations       S               S
Officer, I Training Consultant
04/2000                     12   1 Mission Leader, I Financial        S               S
Management Specialist, I
Operations Officer
ICR
10/2000                     1    Task Team Leader
2/2001                       1    Task Team Leader
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
==_=_____                         i= a =;; =0 0 =                = . No. Staff weeks  us$ ('00)
Identification/Preparation               82.40                         260
Appraisal/Negotiation                    36.80                          101
Supervision                             171.59                         540
ICR
Total                                   290.79                         901
It is estimated that about 6 weeks of the supervision time were spent on the ICR. (SAP time recording has
no separate code for ICR).
- 27 -



Annex S. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
2 Physical                                   O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
f Financial                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I institutional Development                 O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
: Poverty Reduction                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Gender                             OH OSUOM ON *NA
F Other (Please specify)             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Private sector development                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                  0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
2 Other (Please specify)                    0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            OHS Os OU OHU
? Supervision                                        OHS Os  Ou  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
2 Preparation                                        O HS   s   O u   O HU
X Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS * S   O u  O HU
N Overall                                            OHS OS 0 u O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Documents:
Azerbaijan: Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, President's Memorandum and Recommendation;
Report Number P-6377-AZ, March 28, 1995.
Azerbaijan: Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, Technical Annex, Report Number T-6377-AZ,
March 28, 1995.
Azerbaijan: Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 2708-AZ), dated
May 23, 1995.
Azerbaijan: Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, Project Agreement, dated May 23, 1995.
Azerbaijan: Energy Sector Review, Report No. 12061 -AZ, December 27, 1993.
Supervision Documents:
Back-to-Office reports for supervision missions; Back-to-Office report dated December 12, 2000 for ICR
mission.
Audit Reports of Project Accounts for financial years/periods ending: December 1997, December 1998,
and December 1999.
Audit Report of SOCAR Accounts for 1997 and 1998.
Mid Term Report, July 1997, prepared by SOCAR Project Implementation Unit.
- 30 -



