Document of
Tlhe World Bank
FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Reprt No. T-6377-AZ
TECHNICAL ANNEX
AZERBAIJAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARCH 28, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     Manat
US$1               =     4,300 Manats
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
bcm          =     billion cubic meters
CEM          =     Country Economic Memorandum
CIS          =     Confederation of Independent States
CPAR         =     Country Procurement Assessment Review
EU           =     European Union
FSU          =     Former Soviet Union
GoA          =     Government of Azerbaijan
ICB          =     International Competitive Bidding
IS           -     International Shopping
LPG          =     liquid petroleum gas
MOF          =     Ministry of Finance
mcm          =     thousand cubic meters
MIS          =     management information system
mt           =     million tons
PC           =     personal computer
PIU          =     Project Implementation Unit
PPF          =     Project Preparation Facility
SOCAR        =     State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic
SOE          =     statement of expenses
TA           =     technical assistance
TOR          =     terms of reference
toe          =     tons of oil equivalent
UNDP         =     United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



TECHNICAL ANNEX
AZERBAIJAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  Country and Sector Background                ............................... 1
A. Marcoeconomic Developments and Country Background ..............1
B.  The Petroleum  Sub-sector  ................................1
II. The Project .......................5
A. Project Objectives and Structure  ............................5
B.  Project Description  .5.............  ...  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..  ...  .               .   5
C. Legal Aspects   ..........  .           ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .     .   12
D. Project Costs, Financing, Procurement and Disbursements  ..... .               .  .  .     .   13
E. Project Management and Reporting   .......  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   15
F. Supervision Arrangements  ........  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   17
ANNEXES
1   Lending Arrangements, Legal Documents and Flow of Funds  ..... .                .  .  .  .     .   19
2 Cost Estimate .20
3 Procurement Plan and Schedule .22
4  Key Project Activities and Implementation Schedule .24
5 Supervision Plan .26
6 Disbursement Schedule .27
7 Project Performance Indicators .28






AZERBAIJAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Macroeconomic Developments and Country Background
1.          Azerbaijan lies on the southeastern flanks of the Caucasus mountains, bounded
on the East by the Caspian Sea. It is one of the smallest countries of the Former Soviet Union
(FSU), covering an area of 86,000 square kilometers, similar to Austria. Over half of its 7.2
million population is urbanized; the capital, Baku, has about two million inhabitants and is a
major harbor on the Caspian Sea. The country is endowed with fertile agricultural land, and
ample natural resources, particularly oil and natural gas. It also has a diversified industrial
structure and a relatively well educated labor force.
2.          Azerbaijan amended its constitution to legitimize its independence in August 1991.
It is a member of the Confederation of Independent States (CIS). The country's economy has
continued to be very closely tied to that of the rest of the FSU, given the deeply entrenched
economic interdependence established within the Soviet Union. Azerbaijan's industry is
dependent upon the FSU market for both inputs and final sales, and disruptions to trade and
payments within the FSU have contributed to sharp declines in industrial activity. The economy
has also been adversely affected by the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, which has led to an
increase in public expenditure for defence and to the migration of about one million refugees
from the areas affected by the conflict.
3.          As in other countries of the FSU, Azerbaijan's economy underwent a particularly
sharp contraction during 1992, following three years of smaller declines, with a rapid
acceleration of inflation. These trends continued into 1993 and early 1994. Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) in 1993 was only about 60% of its 1988 level. The worsening economic
situation in 1993 was also marked by a serious deterioration in both the fiscal and external
balances. In general, the pace of systemic reform and privatization has been relatively slow.
However, the Government is committed to moving to a market economy, and has been
conducting discussions with the IMF and World Bank on a comprehensive economic reform
program. Notwithstanding a relatively slow process of privatization, Azerbaijan has a buoyant
private sector.
B. The Petroleum Sub-sector
4.          The Need for Restructuring. Petroleum has historically played a key role in
shaping Azerbaijan's economy, and will continue to do so in future. Azerbaijan is one of the
oldest oil producing regions in the world, and supplied most of the requirements of the Soviet
Union until World War II. After World War II, Azerbaijan was eclipsed by new oil producing
regions in Russia, and investment in the country lagged behind other regions. Oil production fell



-2-
from 20 million tons (mt) in 1970, to 10 mt in 1993, just 2% of FSU production, and net
exports fell from 8 mt in 1981 to 1.5 mt in 1993. Most importantly, the Soviet industry failed
to exploit the large resources in the Caspian Sea efficiently, due to shortcomings in technology
and insufficient investment funds. As a result, undeveloped reserves in discovered fields offshore
total some 650 mt, while even larger reserves may exist in unexplored structures. The potential
production from these deposits holds the key to the development of Azerbaijan's energy sector
and of its economy.
5.           Oil production in the older oil fields has been declining for many years. The
largest mature offshore field, Oil Rocks, sustains a sizeable infrastructure and manpower base
on very little production, and is probably no longer economic to operate. It is likely that a large
proportion of the onshore producing wells are uneconomic at international costs and prices, and
should be shut down. There is substantial environmental pollution from the oil fields, through
oil spills and inappropriate disposal of formation water. A policy for dealing with the older oil
fields is urgently needed; this should incorporate strategies for dealing with the social and
employment consequences of restructuring, with the environmental issues and with the need to
attract foreign investment to exploit the substantial remaining reserves.
6.           Total oil production has been sustained by development of the large offshore
Guneshli field, found in 1979, which now accounts for 60% of national oil output. Yet this field
has been developed in a sub-optimal manner, using obsolete technology. Reservoir management
and production practices have been poor, and the field is entering a premature decline. The fall
in production from Guneshli, which amounted to 9% in the year to September 1994, is having
a serious effect on Azerbaijan's oil export revenues.
7.           While oil has been a key export item for Azerbaijan, natural gas has been the
main fuel for domestic use, and gas normally accounts for 60% of primary energy use. Gas
production has fallen along with oil production, from 14 billion cubic meters (bcm) in 1980, to
8 bcm in 1993. Insufficient attention has been given to system maintenance and utilization of gas
reserves; gas usage is thus extremely wasteful, due to inadequate processing, large losses in the
pipeline system, a lack of customer metering and inefficient gas-using equipment. As a result,
Azerbaijan has become a large net importer of natural gas, mostly from Turkmenistan, and the
country is thus only 90% self sufficient in energy, despite its large oil exports. The cost of gas
imports to Azerbaijan is rising rapidly as Turkmenistan attempts to raise gas prices to world
levels; at world prices gas imports could cost Azerbaijan about US$600 million per year, or 35 %
of total import costs. Inefficient gas and oil use makes Azerbaijan one of the least efficient of
the FSU countries in terms of energy usage, and energy consumption per unit of GDP is 20%
above that in Russia.
8.           Most oil exports from Azerbaijan have been in the form of oil products, processed
in the two large refineries located near Baku. The capacity of these refineries, at 20 mt per year,
has exceeded Azerbaijan's diminished oil production for many years, and the spare capacity was
used to process imported crude oil from Russia and Kazakhstan. This inward processing was
probably uneconomic and has largely ceased as prices in FSU oil trade have moved to world
levels. Moreover, the facilities at these refineries are old and lacking in upgrading capacity. The
continued viability of much of the current capacity within a market pricing environment must
be in question.



-3-
9.          Azerbaijan's long history of oil production helped to make it the major center of
petroleum equipment manufacturing in the FSU. The industry supplied 65% of FSU
requirements of most types of production equipment. Since the break up of the Soviet Union,
the industry has suffered from a lack of investment funds, a collapse in trading arrangements for
inputs and increased competition in the FSU market both from foreign suppliers and from new
local manufacturers. A strategy for re-orientating the industry within the new market
environment is urgently required.
10.         Energy Pricing and Institutional Reform. Azerbaijan inherited from the Soviet
Union a highly distorted system of energy pricing. However, pricing reform has been ad-hoc,
and energy price rises tended to lag behind those in other FSU countries until the end of 1994.
Although substantial real price increases were implemented in early 1995, producer and product
prices for oil remain mostly well below international parities. Natural gas producer prices have
been kept extremely low to offset the rising cost of imports from Turkmenistan. Both gas and
electricity prices to residential consumers have been held down relative to prices to industry,
with growing cross-subsidization. The slow pace of price increases has led to rising financial
deficits in all the major energy enterprises, which has aggravated the long term problem of
inadequate investment in plant maintenance and replacement. It is important for Azerbaijan to
adopt a more coherent policy of moving energy prices towards economic levels to avoid further
subsidy costs to the Government and to encourage more efficient use of energy.
11.         Azerbaijan's energy sector institutions have begun the process of reorganization,
although enterprises continue to operate in much the same manner as before. The oil Producing
Associations from the Soviet system have been abolished, and an integrated State Oil Company
(SOCAR) has been formed, including both oil and gas production and the refineries. Gas
distribution and transmission have been merged into a single state company, Azerigaz, while the
power sector is under the control of Azenergo. Government coordination of the energy sector
is weak, with no energy ministry and a lack of high level policy making staff. There is an almost
complete lack of energy sector legislation. A Petroleum Law is particularly necessary, to define
institutional responsibilities in the sub-sector and to encourage foreign investment. A
strengthening of Government supervision and policy implementation in energy is important, as
is a restructuring of enterprises to improve efficiency, and the strengthening of the enterprises
through training and improvement of financial and information systems.
12.         Foreign Investment for Offshore Oil Development. Development by Azerbaijan
of the oil resources which lie offshore of its coastline would have a profound impact on the
country's energy sector, and could generate the revenues required to finance restructuring,
infrastructure investment and social policies during and after the transition to a market economy.
However, the development of the offshore fields is frought with difficulties, and it is unlikely
that Azerbaijan will receive significant benefits from any development before the next century.
Under current plans, which may be optimistic, bringing these fields into production would
require an investment of some US$10 billion (bn) over the next ten years. This investment would
allow production to rise from 9.5 mt in 1994 to 40 mt in the year 2005. Net oil exports would
rise from about 1.0 mt in 1994, to 34 mt in 2005, worth about US$4 bn and accounting for
some 60% of total exports. In the early years of development, much of the impact would come
from the large flows of inward investment (about US$1.0 bn per year). Because of Azerbaijan's
landlocked location, and its capacity to manufacture a wide range of equipment, about 30% to



-4-
45% of investment may go to enterprises in Azerbaijan, resulting in a very large boost to
domestic industry. Local sources are also likely to supply much of the labor and offshore
services.
13.         Involvement of major foreign oil companies is the only means by which
Azerbaijan could obtain the technology, financing and project organization to develop the
offshore fields. Azerbaijan has therefore signed agreements with several major companies for
development of the Azeri and Chirag fields (the two largest undeveloped offshore oil fields). In
the short term, attention should also focus upon the implementation of a project to reverse the
premature decline of production from the Guneshli field. It is probable that foreign oil
companies, and service companies, will have a role in financing and executing a project led by
SOCAR for the rehabilitation of Guneshli. The terms of the agreements with the oil companies
on oil production will have a large effect on net revenues to Azerbaijan. Given the very large
sums involved, it is vital that Azerbaijan obtains the best possible advice in its negotiations with
the foreign oil companies, and that the assessment of agreements is integrated into an overall
macroeconomic framework.
14.          Large scale development of oil for export would require construction of a crude
oil export pipeline with access to world markets, at a cost of at least US$1.5 bn. This pipeline
would have to cross at least one other country. Azerbaijan's preferred route at present lies across
either Iran or Georgia to Turkey, with shipment through the Turkish Mediterranean port of
Ceyhan. The option of a route across Georgia or Russia to the Black Sea is also being
considered, but the environmental and safety concerns posed by a large increase in the transit
of oil through the Bosphorus straits in Turkey may limit the quantity of additional oil which can
be exported through the Black Sea. Oil companies represent the most effective means of
mobilizing capital for a pipeline, although commercial banks, export credit agencies and
multilateral institutions may also be involved, and Azerbaijan has been working in close
coordination with all of these in its pipeline planning. The offshore developments are also likely
to require a common infrastructure and an integrated development strategy. The organizational
and financing arrangements for the joint infrastructure and the export pipeline are critical issues
on which Azerbaijan should seek expert advice.
15.          Exploration of the Caspian Sea, and the of onshore areas, for new petroleum
fields should also be a priority. It is important that this activity is carried out within a coherent
legal, commercial and strategic framework. A licensing strategy would involve division of the
prospective areas into blocks, structured promotion to the international industry, and possibly
licensing rounds designed to ensure orderly and progressive exploration of key areas.
16.          Although Azerbaijan has signed agreements with foreign companies for
development and exploration rights in the areas allocated to it under the division of the Caspian
Sea in the Soviet era, this division has not yet been formalized through international treaty
among the states bordering the Sea. Negotiation of an agreement with other Governments on
appropriate international boundaries is critical to establish Azerbaijan's resource endowment and
to allow foreign investment in oil development to proceed. Azerbaijan should seek expert legal
advice concerning the application of international law to the Caspian boundaries, as the legal
issues arising are potentially highly complicated.



-5-
17.         While Azerbaijan's resource base could present attractive potential opportunities
for international petroleum companies, it is important that an appropriate business environment
is created to encourage actual investment. To date, Azerbaijan has been relatively successful in
following up on the interest shown by many foreign companies, although achievement of final
agreements and investment has been slow. Creation of an appropriate legal and contractual
framework through development of a Petroleum Law and standard contracts, and resolution of
related legal and fiscal issues, is vital if foreign investment is to be attracted promptly and on
the most suitable terms. Strengthening of local capacity is also essential, through training and
assignment of the most capable staff to this area.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Structure
18.         The technical assistance (TA) to be provided under this Project will assist
Azerbaijan to develop its petroleum sub-sector in a manner which maximizes its contribution to
overall economic development. The main objectives of the Project are: (a) to accelerate foreign
private investment and financial participation in petroleum exploration and production through
providing TA to SOCAR, particularly for restructuring of the Guneshli field; (b) to strengthen
petroleum sub-sector institutions through development of petroleum legislation, training, and
improvements in information systems; and (c) to prepare investment projects in the petroleum
sub-sector, for financing by public and private investors, through joint studies between SOCAR
and foreign advisors. The focus of the Project will be to create an enabling policy and
institutional environment which would allow foreign private investment in the petroleum sub-
sector to be mobilized efficiently.
19.         The Project would provide advisory services, studies and training to SOCAR. In
addition, TA would be provided to the Government to develop a legislative framework for
petroleum exploration and production. Implementation would be over a 4 year period. The total
Project cost is US$22.9 million equivalent, of which the IDA credit would be US$20.8 million
equivalent. The Project's components are described below. It should be noted that in addition
to the identified components, the credit for the Project will contain a further sum of US$1.0
million equivalent, since it is expected that additional TA requirements will arise in the energy
sector during the Project implementation period.
B. Project Description
1.    Support for Foreign Investment in Petroleum Exploration and Production
a.    Advisory Services for Petroleum Projects
20.         Components under this heading will provide advice to SOCAR to allow the
development of projects involving investment and financial support from foreign petroleum
companies. The following types of advice will be included under the project:



-6-
*     Financial and Contractual Advice. The objectives of this component are to assist
SOCAR in negotiations with foreign petroleum companies and other agencies as concerns
the economic, fiscal and financial aspects of contracts concerning: (a) the Guneshli field
re-development project, (b) other petroleum projects, and (c) the development of an oil
export pipeline. The assistance will also aim to build the capability of SOCAR staff in
this area, and to install suitable systems within SOCAR to facilitate this work. The
Advisors' work will include the following tasks:
(a)    Advising SOCAR and Azerbaijan Government officials on the principles and
practices of petroleum development and exploration contracts in the international
petroleum industry;
(b)   Calculation of cash flows, internal rates of return and net present values for
alternative terms being negotiated as they would apply to all parties involved;
(c)    Advising SOCAR officials on proposals to be put to foreign companies and other
entities in negotiations and attending negotiations as required; and
(d)   Advising SOCAR on financial aspects of petroleum projects, including the types
of finance available, the cost of this financing and its effect on the viability of
projects, and assisting in contacts with potential financiers.
*     Legal Advice for Petroleum  Project Development. The objective of this
component is to assist SOCAR in negotiations with foreign petroleum companies and
other foreign entities (banks, governments etc.) as concerns the legal aspects of contracts,
and of the development of an oil export pipeline. The assistance will also aim to build
the capacity of SOCAR staff in this area. The Consultants' work program will include
the following tasks to be carried out in conjunction with the advisors to SOCAR
providing financial and contractual advisory services:
(a)    Advising SOCAR on the principles and practices of legal aspects of petroleum
development and exploration contracts in the international petroleum industry;
(b)   Advising SOCAR on the legal implications of export pipeline routing and project
implementation; and
(c)   Advising SOCAR officials on proposals to be put to foreign companies in
negotiations, taking into account the full interests of SOCAR and Azerbaijan and
practice in the international petroleum industry, and attending negotiations as
required.
*     Legal Studies on Caspian Sea Boundaries. The objective of this component is
to assist SOCAR, in close coordination with other relevant government agencies, in
assessing its policies with regard to the determination of the Caspian Sea boundaries as
they apply to petroleum resources. The assistance will also aim to build the capacity of
Azerbaijani staff in this area. The Consultants' scope of work will include the following
tasks:



-7-
(a)   Conducting a study on the legal, technical and commercial issues arising from
international, customary and national laws within the context of the determination
of the boundaries of riparian states on the Caspian Sea; and
(b)   Examining the potential riparian issues that may arise in connection with the
problem of boundary determination.
The Consultants' work will not include the preparation of an adversarial position
or the taking of any adversarial actions, and the consultants would be excluded
from assisting Azerbaijan with negotiations with other riparian states for the
establishment of boundaries of the Caspian Sea.
*     Technical and Costing Advice for Project Development. This component aims
to provide SOCAR with international engineering expertise to assist with project
preparation and management of the Guneshli field re-development and of other petroleum
projects. The advisors would also be expected to provide training of SOCAR staff in
international project design and management practice through joint work. The, most
significant part of the assistance will focus on project management support for the
Guneshli field re-development. The scope of work will be to support SOCAR with:
(a)   Reviewing the existing facilities, updating the concept studies done to date, and
preparing the technical basis for the project;
(b)   Preparing project execution plans, including contracting basis, project control
estimates and schedules, and cash flow forecasts, and establishing project
procedures and guidelines;
(c)   Preparing tender documents, tender evaluations and recommendations for tender
award;
(d)   Following-up contractor's performance and preparing status reports, and
conducting periodic meetings with contractors;
(e)   Reviewing and verifying contractors' cost estimates and reports, resolving
contractual issues and problems, and verifying contractors' progress reporting as
a basis for progress payments;
(f)    Ensuring that environmental and safety standards are met in the project, and
performing periodic quality assurance audits of project team and contractors; and
(g)   Participating during final commissioning of the work and start-up of facilities.
*     Advisory Services on Petroleum Licensing and Exploration Promotion. This
component is designed to provide Azerbaijan with advice to develop and implement a
comprehensive policy for petroleum exploration licensing and promotion. The advice
encompasses the following scope of work:



-8-
(a)   Organization and evaluation of data as to its exploration utility, categorization of
prospect valuations, and the establishment and valuation of data packages for
petroleum industry use;
(b)   Establishing SOCAR objectives and desired pace of exploration licensing,
frequency and nature of bidding rounds, the configuration, number and size of
exploration blocks, and their respective bonuses and model work programs;
(c)   Evaluating alternative promotion strategies to the international oil industry, and
designing a promotion program schedule; assisting in implementation and in bid
evaluation and subsequent negotiations as necessary; and
(d)   Assisting in the establishment of a petroleum exploration policy making body, and
a contract compliance regulation agency.
2.    Institutional Strengthening of the Petroleum Sub-sector
a.    Advisory Services
21.         The following advisory services will be provided so as to strengthen the
fundamental institutional structures of the petroleum sub-sector:
*     Development of a Legal and Fiscal Framework for Petroleum Exploration and
Production. The objective of this component is to assist the Experts Group, which is
responsible within the Government for drafting a Petroleum Law, in drafting a
comprehensive legal framework for petroleum operations including the Regulations and
one or several variations of a model contract. The Consultants' assistance will include
the following tasks:
(a)   Advising the Experts Group on different legal regimes covering petroleum
exploration and development;
(b)   Assisting with the drafting of comprehensive petroleum legislation covering: the
institutional structure of the sub-sector; means of conducting petroleum
operations; concept and outline contents of a Model Contract; and fiscal/taxation
policies for petroleum operations;
(c)   Assisting with the drafting of enabling Regulations and the preparation of model
contracts; and
(d)   Training the key government and SOCAR officials in the implementation of the
petroleum law and regulations.
b.    Training and Equipment
22.         The following project components will meet a significant proportion of SOCAR's
immediate training needs, and initiate the computerization of key departments:



-9-
Training of SOCAR Staff in Financial and Commercial Aspects of the
Petroleum Industry. The objective of this component is to help meet the needs of
SOCAR staff for substantial training in the links between the technical and economic
criteria for petroleum investment and operations, as well as in basic commercial and
financial management skills. The training should aim to enable a self-sufficient group of
petroleum economists to carry out project evaluations as well as oil trading and
marketing with limited help from outside advisors. The scope of work for the component
is as follows:
(a)   Assessing the training needs of SOCAR as well as selecting a core group of staff
with relevant skills (eg. engineering, economics, finance) for training, and
designing a training plan in conjunction with SOCAR;
(b)   Preparing courses, seminars and workshops which will cover the following areas:
(i) geo-political, economic and structural aspects of world petroleum markets, (ii)
international practices in exploration and production agreements and their fiscal
and contractual aspects, (iii) economic analysis of oil projects and operations, (iv)
oil company financial management, and international financial institutions,
banking systems and practices, and (v) crude and oil product trading methods and
commercial practice; and
(c)   Providing training abroad for a selected number of managers in advanced
programs along with a prior English language training program.
--    Provision of Computing and Communications Equipment. The objectives of
the work are: (a) to introduce approximately 80 personal computers (PC's) with an
appropriate number of printers, associated software and hardware to a number of key
SOCAR departments, and to train selected SOCAR staff in communications technology
and maintenance, (b) to strengthen the ability of SOCAR's information technology
officers to manage the computer requirements of SOCAR including training and
maintenance, (c) to provide SOCAR with satellite communication facilities including
telephone and facsimile lines which will enable SOCAR to handle its communications
with foreign oil companies, advisors and institutions. The Consultant's task will include
the following:
(a)   Establishing the work plan for the services to purchase and install PC's and
communication systems and assisting in supervising procurement and installation
of equipment, and
(b)   Training selected core information technology officers in SOCAR in PC and
communications technology and maintenance, and establishing a small training
center.
Following the conclusion of the Consultant's work plan, the PIU will undertake
procurement of equipment for: (i) supply of PC's and related equipment to key
departments of SOCAR; (ii) supply a satellite communication system with several
telephone lines and facsimile modem for SOCAR headquarters. The PIU will also



-10-
oversee the charging of incremental operating costs for the satellite communication
system to the Project budget, within the specified financing limits.
3.    Petroleum Project Investment Studies
23.          The following studies will be undertaken in support of petroleum  investment
projects. All studies will be undertaken by international specialist firms, working closely with
teams of SOCAR experts.
*     Oil Rocks and Other Older Offshore Oil Fields Restructuring Study. An
economic and engineering study of the older offshore fields will determine the remaining
exploitable reserves, where these reserves are located within the fields, and the most
efficient method of their production. The studies will investigate the surface facilities of
each field, and develop plans for their renovation, removal or modification which are
required to complete the exploitation of the field. These studies will form the basis for
a comparative economic ranking of offshore rehabilitation projects, and will serve as the
technical basis for developing financial options for their implementation. The studies
would each encompass the following scope of work:
(a)    A complete reservoir simulation study for each productive field unit, and an
optimized economic exploitation plan of infill and field extension drilling;
(b)   A surface facilities assessment, the design of a rehabilitation, modernization and
salvage plan, and the environmental assessment and development of an operations
plan to remediate and minimize pollution;
(c)    The design of a field renovation work schedule, field life production forecasts,
cash flow projections, and a personnel rationalization program; and
(d)    Presentation of alternative finance options, including potential for joint ventures
and assistance with field promotion.
*     Rehabilitation of the Old Onshore Oil Fields. A strategy will be developed for
the renovation and rehabilitation of the older onshore fields of Azerbaijan to improve the
economics of production and develop remaining reserves efficiently. The strategy will
include plans for the attracting foreign investment, with focused studies of the Bibi-Eybat
and Balkhanineft fields, two of the largest and oldest fields. The scope of work will
include the following tasks:
(a)    The development of a uniform methodology for the economic evaluation of each
onshore field and individual wells; including the decision-making processes for:
(i) working-over poorly producing wells, (ii) the abandonment of sub-commercial
wells; and (iii) the drilling of field-related delineation and exploration wells;
(b)   A detailed reserve determination to establish the remaining reserves, with a
comprehensive economic plan for their exploitation; articulation of a rationalized



-11-
production scheme for the refurbishment, abandonment or replacement of surface
facilities;
(c)   The development of an environmental remediation plan to systematically abandon
uneconomic wells, the removal of related surface equipment and infrastructure
and the return of the surface to a condition suitable for other land use;
(d)   Recommending strategies for resolution of institutional issues related to field
management, and of social issues related to rationalization of labor; and
(e)   Preparation of initial bidding packages for offering to foreign companies for joint
venture participation with SOCAR, promotion of packages to the international
petroleum industry and evaluation of bids.
*     Gas Processing Facilities Reconstruction Study. The study will focus on
medium and long term solutions based on a least cost approach to gas processing needs.
The study will include a conceptual design for a gas plant, and comprehensive economic
and financial analysis. The output of the study will allow a project for reconstruction of
gas processing facilities to be presented to international oil companies and financial
institutions for financing. The study encompasses the following scope of work:
(a)   Physical survey and technical diagnosis of the existing gas plant and conceptual
design for plant reconstruction;
(b)   Financial and economic studies including sensitivity tests against pricing of gas
and LPG and capital investment costs, and assessment of options for financing the
investment; and
(c)   Preliminary environmental and safety assessment.
*     Feasibility Study of Project for Early Exports of Crude Oil. Given the urgency
of developing an economic outlet for crude oil exports, the main objective of this
component is to draw up a practical project implementation scheme together with
SOCAR and international oil companies. The main focus of the work is expected to be
the reversal of the existing pipeline designed to carry oil from Grozny (Russia) to Baku.
Legal, contractual and financial aspects will be covered by other Project components.
The component encompasses the following tasks:
(a)   Physical survey and technical diagnosis of the existing infrastructure and
transportation facilities, and review of studies done by institutes in the FSU and
by SOCAR;
(b)   Finalization of conceptual design for the pipeline and terminal facilities, and
initial environmental assessment;
(c)   Survey of domestic oil consumption and evaluation of amount of exportable oil;



-12-
(d)   Financial and economic analyses including sensitivity tests against oil price and
capital investment costs; and
(e)   Recommendations on the operation scheme including offtake arrangements, and
pipeline management.
C. Legal Aspects
24.         Lending Arrangements. The Azerbaijan Republic has not yet set up a Ministry
of Energy within the central government structure to oversee the energy sector and to develop
sector policies. Ministerial responsibility for energy lies with the First Deputy Prime Minister,
who is supported by a small staff of specialists. Other Ministries which play a role in the energy
sector include: the Ministry of External Economic Relations, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
Ministry of Economy. A key enterprise in the energy sector is SOCAR, which was established
in September 13, 1992, through a Presidential Decree. SOCAR carries out all activities
connected with exploration and production of oil and gas, refining of oil and bulk transport and
storage of crude oil.
25.         The Charter of SOCAR, which sets forth its legal status, functions, assets,
structure, and management was approved by a Presidential Decree on November 14, 1992.
According to its Charter, SOCAR is established as a separate legal entity. The management of
the company belongs to its Board of Directors and to its Managerial Board. The members of the
Board of Directors, apart from the Vice-Presidents of the company and the President of SOCAR,
are appointed by the President of the Republic.
26.         SOCAR consists of a number of subunits, which may have different legal status,
either as "structural units" or as "state enterprises". While the state enterprises are separate legal
entities, structural units do not have independent status. SOCAR's structure has been evolving
as the management seeks to improve its organization in line with modern oil company practices.
Based on a Presidential Decree dated January 10, 1994, SOCAR is undergoing further structural
change. According to this Decree and an Order of the President of SOCAR, a number of
structural units and enterprises are being liquidated or restructured.
27.         SOCAR will be responsible for the execution of virtually all the Project
components. Thus the credit will be provided to the Azerbaijan Republic and onlent through a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to SOCAR for the components of the Project which SOCAR is
responsible for implementing. Therefore, IDA will conclude: (a) a Credit Agreement with the
Azerbaijan Republic; and (b) a Project Agreement with SOCAR. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government of Azerbaijan and SOCAR will set forth the onlending terms which
would be for an amount of US$20.225 million, for 12 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 200 basis points above the prevailing yield on US 10-year Treasury Bills, with 6-
month variable interest rates. The preparation of the Petroleum Legislation component of the
Project will be implemented by the Experts Group established under the Secretary of the
Supreme Soviet (Parliament) of the Republic. For this component, the MOF will pass on the
proceeds of the credit to the Experts Group. Lending arrangements, legal documents and flow
of funds are shown in Annex 1.



-13-
28.         Ability to Borrow. The Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan gives the
authority to conclude international treaties and agreements with international institutions to the
President of the Republic. Article 104 (28) of the Constitution requires the ratification of
international agreements by the Parliament. On December 29, 1992, the Parliament enacted the
Law on State's Debt and according to Article 3 of this Law, the MOF manages the foreign debt
of the Republic. This Law gives to the Government the authority to decide on foreign borrowing
up to a certain limit approved by the Parliament.
29.        Based upon discussions with the MOF, National Bank and the Supreme Soviet,
it is understood that the IDA credit would need to be submitted to the Parliament for formal
ratification unless the upper limit on foreign borrowing is decided by the Parliament.
D. Project Costs, Financing, Procurement and Disbursements
1.    Project Costs
30.         The total project cost is estimated at US$22.86 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$20.8 million, or approximately 91% of total costs. The project costs
are estimated on the basis of a four year implementation schedule. Unit costs of advisory and
consultant services are based upon consultations with firms doing business in Azerbaijan,
discussions with the UNDP who are active in providing TA to Azerbaijan, and from rates quoted
for other similar consultant services in the region. Price contingencies averaging 5% have been
assumed for all project components. Detailed project costs are shown in Annex 2.
31.         An unallocated amount of US$1.0 million has been set aside for additional
investment studies not yet identified, and for follow-up advisory services to emerging investment
promotion opportunities. Project costs also include the re-financing of a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) of US$0.5 million, of which US$0.1 million had been committed by September
1994. The uncommitted amount under the PPF of US$0.4 million is being directed at early
consultancy services for structuring the approach to the rehabilitation of the Guneshli Field
(US$250,000), early consultancy services and support to SOCAR to accelerate project
implementation (US$75,000), and preparation of the component on petroleum legislation
(US$75,000).
2.    Project Financing
32.         The proposed IDA credit (US$20.8 million equivalent) would finance 91 % of the
total project costs, excluding any taxes or duties. Local costs will be in the form of support
services, office space and facilities, and seconded staff, and would be provided in large degree
by SOCAR. However, some logistical and training local costs will be included in the foreign
financed contracts for consulting services and the procurement of equipment, and would be
financed by the credit.



-14-
3.    Procurement
33.         The proposed procurement packages are detailed in Annex 3. The procurement
procedures are as follows:
(a)   Contracts for Consulting and Training Services (US$ 20.2 million). All
consulting services will be provided by firms. The selection processes for all
consulting, advisory and training services would be based upon the Bank's
"Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981) based on technical merit;
(b)   Equipment and Supplies (US$0.6 million). Equipment to be procured under the
project consists of computers and office equipment of a varied nature, and an
international communications system, all of relatively low value. Given the varied
nature of the items, and that no particular item or package exceeds US$300,000,
these items or groups of items would be procured through International Shopping
based on the comparison of price quotations and servicing/training capabilities
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different eligible
countries, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
34.         Procurement Status/Timing of Consultant Services. During Project appraisal
in May-June, 1994, the necessary Terms of Reference (TOR) were developed. Accordingly,
SOCAR now has for review all necessary TORs and early action to begin consultant selection
is possible. Given the urgency of arresting the production decline of the Guneshli Field, early
work on this component will be financed under the remaining funds of the PPF (at a cost of
US$250,000). However, the Project Management work on the Guneshli field is integrated and
sequential in nature. The first phase of the work (initial project preparation and definition) would
be financed under the PPF. A change of consultants after the PPF phase could result in
disruption of the work and of established working relationships, and also could lead to a delay
in implementation of the Guneshli project and to consequent greater loss of petroleum
production. It is therefore proposed that the component of the Project relating to Technical and
Costing Advisory Services for the Guneshli Field Rehabilitation Project (foreign exchange cost
US$6.0 million) be the subject of Advance Contracting, subject to the provisions outlined in OD
11.00. The Consultant selected under the PPF in accordance with Bank Guidelines would also
be awarded the Contract for the further work under this component within the Project, subject
to satisfactory completion of the work under the PPF, to effectiveness of the credit and to
appropriate progress with the Guneshli field rehabilitation project.
35.         Contract Review. As this is the first IDA credit to Azerbaijan, and no Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) has yet been completed, all contracts for services and
goods would be subject to the IDA's prior review of procurement documentation. However, as
experience is gained, this prior review requirement will be evaluated at the mid-term review,
or earlier if requested by SOCAR, and some modification may be determined at that time for
contracts or amendments of relatively low value to allow for post-review.



-15-
4.    Disbursements
36.         Disbursements against the proposed IDA credit are expected to be 100% of
expenditures on consultants' services and training, and for office equipment, communications,
computers and software 100% of the foreign expenditures or 100% of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured eligible goods or 75% of the cost of other domestic purchases. The IDA
credit will cover 100% of foreign expenditures (including local costs incurred within the
contracts not provided by SOCAR or the Experts Group). Disbursements for components
managed by SOCAR will be signed by the President of SOCAR, or a person designated by the
President. Disbursements for consulting services to the Experts Group will be signed by a
designated member of the Group. Disbursements will be fully documented, except for contracts
for consulting services and equipment not exceeding US$20,000 for which disbursements would
be on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). The documentation for these expenditures
would be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by IDA of the audit report for
the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be available for
review by the auditors and IDA upon request.
37.         In order to expedite urgent payments to be made locally, a Special Account with
a ceiling of US$500,000 will be established in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and will
be replenished in accordance with Bank procedures. Urgent small payments in local and foreign
currencies will be effected locally through this Special Account. All other payments to
consultants and suppliers will be made directly through the Credit Account (direct payment
procedure). In the event that payments of goods are to be made through letters of credit, IDA
will effect payment directly to the commercial banks (special commitment procedure). At the
request of the Borrower and, based on the project needs, IDA would make an appropriate initial
deposit or deposits into the Special Accounts up to the amount of the authorized allocation. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is based on the Project being completed within four years
of credit effectiveness.
E. Project Management and Reporting
1.    Project Management
38.         Project Executing Responsibilities. The respective responsibilities of the MOF,
SOCAR and the Experts Group Commission are as follows:
(a)   The MOF will be the representative of the Borrower, the Azerbaijan Republic,
to IDA;
(b)   The funds will be on-lent to SOCAR, at the terms and conditions stated above and
SOCAR will be responsible for executing all aspects of the Project with the
exception of the Experts Group work on developing a new petroleum law;
(c)   SOCAR will establish a PIU with appropriate staff and responsibilities which will
manage and coordinate overall project activities; and



-16-
(d)   The Experts Group will manage and execute the consulting contract for the
petroleum legislation directly and will appoint at least one full time official for
this purpose.
39.          Project performance indicators to serve as a basis for the mutual monitoring and
supervision of the Project are shown as Annex 7. An outline implementation schedule is
provided as Annex 4. A detailed implementation plan and schedule will be developed by the PIU
for the Project showing the critical steps and dates required to meet the Project's objectives
within a 48 month period. An initial plan and schedule will be agreed during the project launch
mission planned for May 1995, and a final detailed plan and schedule will be submitted with the
interim progress report in September 1995.
40.          Overall Project Management. SOCAR will have overall responsibility for the
implementation of the activities to be financed, except for the Petroleum Law component which
will be under the responsibility of the Experts Group. SOCAR will establish and pay for a PIU
with appropriate staff and responsibilities which will support and coordinate overall project
activities including procurement, disbursements and reporting, and which will also ensure that
the requirements of Bank Guidelines on procurement of services and goods are met. The PIU
would also assist the Experts Group in their evaluation of consultant proposals.
41.          The PIU will report to the President of SOCAR through one of the Vice
Presidents or a top management official designated to oversee its activities, and will be headed
by an Executive Director who will be assisted by two technical professionals, a financial officer,
and a secretary. The PIU will be assisted by specialized international consulting services, to be
financed under the Project, to provide procurement and financial management advice. The PIU
will be provided by SOCAR with suitable office space, local communication and office
equipment, although the consultants should be prepared to arrange for their own logistical
support in transportation, international communications, lodging and computers.
42.          PIU Functions. The PIU will be the focal point for the Project and will be
responsible for its overall execution in cooperation with the concerned Departments of SOCAR.
In addition, it will also serve as the Secretariat to the President of SOCAR in reviewing reports
and recommendations, preparing summary reports and recommendations for policy level
consultations, and identifying any problems and solutions that develop in Project execution which
require action. In close cooperation and coordination with the respective Departments of
SOCAR, it will prepare and authorize Withdrawal Applications, manage the procurement and
arrange for signing of any contracts and payments. It will also monitor and ensure provision of
necessary and agreed upon financial and logistical support to the consulting services. The PIU
will also assist the Experts Group in managing the evaluation of the consultant services for their
work. The division of responsibilities between SOCAR management and the PIU will be as
follows:
(a)   SOCAR  will: (i) Formally establish the PIU  with specific authority and
responsibilities, and will assign the necessary designated individuals with
appropriate qualifications as Director and staff; (ii) Approve the consulting
contract for management advice to the PIU; and, (iii) Ensure that reports required



-17-
by IDA and the MOF are prepared in a timely manner, and that other interested
parties are informed of project activities to ensure donor coordination.
(b)   The PIU will: (i) Finalize TORs and specifications for services and goods; (ii)
Finalize bid packaging; (iii) Prepare short lists of proposed consultants; (iv)
Coordinate bid responses; (v) Arrange and manage evaluations of proposals; (vi)
Assist in preparing and reviewing contracts for signature by appropriate
authorities; (vii) Assist in the day-to-day contract execution; (viii) Prepare and
maintain a master schedule of project execution and monitoring; (ix) Maintain a
project cost accounting system; (x) Organize and direct a project reporting
system; (xi) Prepare and recommend to MOF for payment all Withdrawal
Applications; (xii) Arrange for and coordinate all necessary IDA approvals; (xiii)
Arrange for and pay any required taxes and obtain customs/immigration
clearances; and, (xiv) Prepare any required reports.
2.    Reporting and Monitoring
43.          The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-
related accounts will be maintained in accordance with accounting practices and standards which
are acceptable to IDA. Annual financial statements of IDA-financed components will be prepared
and audited in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices and standards commonly
used in Azerbaijan by suitably qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and submitted
to IDA within six months of the close of the Government of Azerbaijan's fiscal year. Audits will
also be carried out, at the same time, and for corresponding periods in accordance with IDA
guidelines, for SOEs against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made out
of the Credit and Special Accounts. Each year SOCAR will submit to IDA the auditors' report
and audited financial statements for the Special Account, project accounts and SOEs for the
preceding fiscal year, not later than six months after the close of such year. Auditors acceptable
to IDA will be retained by SOCAR to review the accounting systems and supporting internal
procedures and practices for the Special and project Accounts and SOEs, and recommend any
needed changes.
44.         Quarterly reports will be required no later than one month after the close of the
relevant quarter, as well as consolidated reports on project implementation covering the status
of: (a) procurement; (b) the conduct of studies, advisory services and training; and, (c) decisions
taken or proposed to be taken on key findings and recommendations. A mid-term review will
be held in May, 1997.
F. Supervision Arrangements
45.         General. This will be the first IDA operation in Azerbaijan, and although the
main executing agency (SOCAR) has dealt with foreign firms to some extent, SOCAR and the
Government of Azerbaijan are unfamiliar with IDA/IBRD procedures. At present, Azerbaijan
has no major foreign debt and the Government is still developing systems of control and
management of foreign debt operations. IDA supervision will take into account the urgency of
preparing investment plans for the declining Guneshli Field which requires that advisory services
be provided at an early date, so as to be of use as SOCAR negotiates with foreign companies.



-18-
Government of Azerbaijan decision-making will be aided by frequent IDA visits. Nine Field
Supervision Missions are proposed during the four-year implementation period. A CPAR is not
planned for the moment but will be considered as the IBRD/IDA portfolio grows.
46.         Project Launch Workshop. It is proposed to hold a Project Launch Workshop
no later than one month after Board Presentation to review with SOCAR and the Government
the implementation arrangements for the Project.
47.         IIDA Supervision Input. The Supervision Plan for the Project is provided as
Annex 5. IDA staff input of 66 staff weeks (over four years) into the supervision of the
proposed project will take the following forms:
(a)   Project Initiation. Twelve staff weeks, including one Mission to Azerbaijan, are
determined necessary to have all the bid packages put into place and work
initiated. This will include the review of procurement documentation,
correspondence and internal reporting.
(b)   Guneshli Reviews. Given the importance and level of IDA financing of the
components relating to the Guneshli oil field, 10 staff weeks and two Missions
are dedicated to this activity specifically, although it is also included in other
review and supervision efforts.
(c)   Petroleum Legislation. This key activity will require two staff weeks of Legal
staff.
(d)   Progress Reviews. Thirty four staff weeks will be dedicated to periodic reviews,
including one major Mid-term Review of 8 staff weeks, to review with SOCAR
the progress of specific activities under implementation, and of key problem areas
and actions taken or planned to be taken to resolve them.
(e)   Final Inspection/Audits. Eight staff weeks will be dedicated to finalizing IDA
documentation and payments, and evaluating the impact of the Project activities.
48.         Government of Azerbaijan and SOCAR Contribution to Supervision. In
addition to the periodic reports to be provided to IDA, the PIU will prepare an issues paper in
preparation for each Field Supervision mission. At the end of each mission, an aide memoire
will be prepared summarizing the mission's major findings, the issues requiring the
Government's and IDA's attention and proposed actions to resolve identified problem areas.



-19-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
LENDING ARRANGEMENTS, LEGAL DOCUMENTS
AND FLOW OF FUNDS
IDA              -- ----l--
........................................................  ........ .. . . .......
LEISDING                   AGREEMENT
EXPERTS    -_FUNDS-    Azerbaijan                                                                       / D
GROUP  r                                Republic
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACCOUNT\
ON LI NDING
/PROJEUI-a<                                                                         
AGREEMENT
LOAN
AGREEMENT
ACCOUNT
SOCAR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . ....                          ...................       ......    ..    ............ -  --FNS,'
PIU               -                                                         E FUNDS  .  FUNDS
SUPPLIERS \T
OF OOODS
A     SERVICES..                  ............................ ....................................... .......................................... ............ -...................



PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATE
(US$ 000)
Local       Foreign          Total  Foreign as     Total as
% of Total    % of Total
Project Cost   Base Cost
A.    Support for Foreign Investment in              1,200         13,160         14,360            91            68
Petroleum Exploration and Production
Advisory Services                              1,200        13,200         14,400            91            68
1. Financial/Contractual Advice                 400          4,300          4,700            91            22
-Guneshli Field                           100          2,000         2,100            95             10
-Export Pipeline                          100          1,000         1,100             91             5
-Other Fields                             100           800            900             88             4
-Other Infrastructure                     100           500            600             83             3
2. Legal Advice                                 100          1,160          1,260            92             6
-Caspian Sea Boundaries                    50           400            450             88             2         T
-Project Development                       50           760            810             94             4
3. Technical/Costing Advice                     700          7,700          8,400            92            40
-Guneshli Field                           500          6,000         6,500             92            31
-Other Projects                           200          1,700         1,900             90             9
B.    Institutional Strengthening of the               160          1,440          1,600            90             8
Petroleum Sub-Sector
Advisory Services                                50            400           450             88             2
1 Petroleum Legislation                                                                                                CD
-Petroleum Law                             50           400            450             88             2          |



Local       Foreign          Total  Foreign as    Total as
% of Total    % of Total
Project Cost    Base Cost
Training                                         50            400           450             84             2
1. Financial/Commercial                          50           400            450
ENuipment                                        60            640           700             91             3
1. Computers/Communications Advice               10            100           110             91
2. Computer/Communications Procurement           50            540           590             92
C.    Energy Sector Investment Studies                 300          3,050         3,350             91            14
Advisory Services                               300          3,050          3,350            91            14
1. Projea Preparation
-Oil Rocks/Old Offshore Field             50            800            850            94             4
Rehabilitation
-Old Onshore Fields Restructuring         50            800            850            94             4
-Gas Processing Facilities                100           650            750            87             4
Reconstruction Study
-Early Oil Exports                        100           800            900            89             4
D.    Components to be identified                                   1,000         1,000
E.    Project Implementation                           100            650           750             87             3
Advisory Services
1. Project Management/Procurement               100            600           700             86             3
Equipment
1. Office Equipment                                             50            50            100             1
Total Base Cost                                      1,760         19,300        21,060             92
Contingencies                                          100          1,000          1,100            91                      o x
Refinancing Project Preparation Facility               200            500           700             71                      N N
Project Total Cost                                   2,060         20,800        22,860             92



AZERBALJAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE
COMPONENT                                        ESTIM. PROCUREMENT  ISSUE              SELECT          SIGN
COST    METHOD             INVITES   CONSULTANT  CONTRACT
TO BID    (SUPPLIER)       (DELIVERY)
A. CONSULTING AND ADVISORY SERVICES
1. SUPPORT FOR FOREIGN INVESTMENT
IN PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND
PRODUCTION
(a) Financial/Contractual Advice to SOCAR
-Guneshli Field                         2,000         Short List    5/15/95    8/30/95          10/14/95
Tech. Merit
-Export Pipeline                         1,000        ditto         6/15/95    9/30/95          11/04/95
-Other Fields                             800         ditto         6/27/95     10/15/95        11/27/95
-Other Infrastructure                     500         ditto         6/27/95     10/15/95        11/27/95
(b) Legal Advice to SOCAR
-Caspian Sea Boundaries                   400         ditto         6/15/95    8/30/95          10/14/95
-Project Development                      800         ditto         6/15/95     8/30/95         10/14/95
(c) Technical/Costing Advice to SOCAR
-Guneshli Field                         6,000         ditto         1/27/95     3/31/95         4/28/95
-Other Projects                           900         ditto         6/27/95     10/15/95        11/27/95
(d) Licensing/Exploration Promotion (SOCAR)    800        ditto         6/27/95     10/15/95        11/27/95



COMPONENT                                      ESTIM. PROCUREMENT  ISSUE             SELECT          SIGN
COST    METHOD            INVITES   CONSULTANT  CONTRACT
TO BID    (SUPPLIER)    (DELIVERY)
2. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF
THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(a) Petroleum Legislation and Framework     400         ditto        5/15/95     7/30/95         9/14/95
(b) Computers/Communications                110         Short List    6/15/95    8/30/95         10/17/95
Tech. Merit
(c) Financial/Commercial Training           400         Short List    7/16/95    9/29/95         11/2/95
Tech. Merit
3. ENERGY SECTOR INVESTMENT STUDIES
(a) Project Preparation
-Oil Rocks and old Offshore field       800          ditto        6/27/95    10/15/95        11/27/95
Rehabilitation
-Onshore Fields                         800          ditto        6/27/95    10/15/95        11/27/95
-Gas Processing Facilities Reconstruction  650       ditto        6/27/95    10/15/95        11/27/95
Study
-Early Oil Exports                      800          ditto        6/15/95    8/30/95         10/14/95
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(a) Project Management/Procurement          600         ditto         1/27/95    3/31/95        6/15/95
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Computer/Communications Equipment        540         International  10/15/95    12/15/95     2/15/96
and Training                                         Shopping
2. Project Management Support                 50        International  5/16/95   7/15/95         8/27/95
Shopping    _     _                                     w



-24-                                         Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
AZERBAIJAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Main Government Objectives    Project Component Activities     Expected ReauWt/lmpact        |Timing
A. SUPPORT FOR FOREIGN
INVESTMENT IN PETROLEUM
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
Accelerate foreign investment   (i) Advisory services for      Implementation of               Oct. 1995 - May 1999
in petroleum exploration and  development and management of    well-structured project to
production, including        financial and contractual         reverse production decline
rehabilitation of producing  investment package for            in Guneshli field,
portion of Guneshli oilfield.  Guneshli oilfield              involving funancing from
rehabilitation.                  foreign companies.
(ii) Advisory services for       Selection of pipeline routing   Nov. 1995 - Dec. 1997
development and                  and initiation of pipeline
implementation of new oil        project, in collaboration
export pipeline project.         with international oil
companies and other investors.
(iii) Technical, financial       Conclusion of new petroleum     Nov. 1995 - Jan. 1999
and legal advisory services      exploration and production
to SOCAR for other petroleum     agreements, and development
projects involving foreign       of joint ventures in
investors.                       petroleum processing,
engineering and construction.
(iv) Legal study of Caspian      Improved understanding by       Oct. 1995 - Sept. 1996
Sea Boundaries issues.           SOCAR and Government of legal
issues connected with
(v) Advisory services on         Development of exploration      Nov. 1995 - Oct. 1997
petroleum licensing and          licensing framework,
exploration promotion.           including tendering
documents for structures
and blocks.
B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
OF THE PETROLEUM SUB-SECTOR
Development of legal         (i) Legal advisory services       Parliamentary approval of       Sept. 1995 - Sept. 199
framework for petroleum      for development of Petroleum      legal framework for
sub-sector and strengthening  Law.                             petroleum exploration and
of key institutions.                                           production, and associated
contractual, fiscal and
institutional regulations.



-25-                                            Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Main Government Objectives    Project Component Activities        Expected Result/Impact           Timing
(ii) Training of SOCAR staff       Improvement of SOCAR staff       Nov. 1995 - Apr. 1997
in financial and commercial        capabilities to address
aspects of petroleum sector        economic, commercial and
operations.                        financial issues connected
with petroleum.
(iii) Purchase and                 Installation of 80 PCs with      Feb. 1996 - Mar. 1997
installation of PCs for            software and linked
SOCAR, and associated staff        hardware, and their routine
training.                          use by key SOCAR
departments in operations.
(iv) Purchase and                  Substantial improvement in       Feb. 1996 - May 1996
installation and operation of      SOCAR's ability to
satelite telecommunications        communicate with
system for SOCAR.                  foreign commercial counterparts.
C. ENERGY SECTOR
INVESTMENT STUDIES
Prepare key projects in       (i) Consultants for Oil Rocks       Concrete project proposals for   Nov. 1995 - Nov. 1997
petroleum sub-sector to        and other old offshore fields      addressing problems of Oil
address operational,          rehabilitation                      Rocks field, and other key
environmental and safety       study.                             older offshore fields, and
problems arising from                                             presentation to potential
deterioration of                                                  investors and financiers.
infrastructure, and
improve project preparation   (ii) Consultants for old            Concrete project proposals for   Nov. 1995 - Nov. 1997
capacity.                     onshore oil fields                  addressing problems of the old
rehabilitation study.              onshore fields, and
presentation to potential
investors and financiers.
(iii) Consultants for gas          Project proposals for            Nov. 1995 - Nov. 1996
processing facilities              reconstruction and expansion of
reconstruction study.              gas processing facilities of
SOCAR, in coordination with
international investors.
(iv) Technical and economic        Detailed feasibility study of    Oct. 1995-Oct. 1996
consultants for feasibility        options for development of
study of project for early         existing infrastructure to
oil exports.                       expand capacity for oil
exports, by mid-1996.



-26-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate  Activities          Staff Composition                     Staff
Dates                                                                  Weeks
5/95         Project Launch      Task Manager,                         8*
Workshop           Procurement/Disbursement/Component
Review             specialists
bid/proposal
packages
5/95-7/95    Review of work      Task Manager, Component specialists    4
progress: Final
timetables
9/95         Review Petroleum   Task Manager/Legal                     2
Legislation
9/95         Review progress,   Task Manager,                          6*
all components     Procurement/Disbursement/Component
specialists
3/96         Review Guneshli   Task Manager, Component specialists    5*
progress
9/96         Review progress,   Task Manager,                          8*
all components     Procurement/Disbursement/Component
specialists
5/97         Mid-term Review    Task Manager,                          8*
Procurement/Disbursement/Component
specialists
9/97         Review Guneshli   Task Manager, Petroleum specialists     5*
3/98         Review progress,   Task Manager, Component specialists    8*
all components
9/98         Review progress,   Task Manager, Component specialists    6*
all components
6/99         Review progress,   Task Manager,                          8*
all components,    Procurement/Disbursement/Component
Final inspection,    specialists
Final audits
TOTAL                                                                  66
= Mission)



-27-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA fiscal year and        Semester       Cumulative      Cumulative
semester                     ------- (US $ million) ------    %
1995
First                      0.0                 0.0
Second                     0.1                 0.1               0.5
1996
First                       1.4                1.5               7.2
Second                     2.2                 3.7               17.8
1997
First                       3.0                6.7              32.2
Second                      3.7               10.4              50.0
1998
First                      4.2                14.6              70.2
Second                      2.4               17.0              81.7
1999
First                      2.2                19.2              92.3
Second                      1.6               20.8             100.0



-28-
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The impact indicators for the project and measurements of its success are derived from the
key project objectives, which fall under the following categories:
(a)   Accelerating Foreign Private Investment and Financial Participation in
Petroleum Exploration and Production;
(b)   Strengthening Petroleum Sub-Sector Institutions;
(c)   Preparing Investment Projects in the Petroleum Sub-sector.
(A) Accelerating Foreign Private Investment and Financial Participation in Petroleum
Exploration and Production
Indicators                              Measurements
1. Develop and Implement Rehabilitation   i.  Technical and financial proposals
Project for Guneshli Oil field            developed and presented to financiers
and investors.
ii. Foreign financing (US$million)
committed and disbursed.
iii. Field oil production (rate of decline).
2. Develop Oil Export Pipeline and Early  i.  Pipeline project alternatives analyzed,
Oil Exports                               route agreed.
ii. Successful project implementation
structure established.
iii. SOCAR contributes fully to preparation
of early oil exports project.
iv. Early oil exports on target ( by mid-
1996).
v. Foreign financing (US$million)
committed and disbursed for major
export pipeline project.



-29-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
3. Attract New Foreign Investment in    i.  Acreage and field promotion packages
Petroleum Projects (Excl. Guneshli)     prepared and presented.
ii. Number of exploration and production
agreements concluded.
iii. Number of joint ventures in petroleum
processing, engineering, services etc.
iv. Foreign financing (US$million)
committed and disbursed.
(B) Strengthening Petroleum Sub-sector Institutions.
Indicators                             Measurements
1. Develop and Implement Petroleum      i.  Initial draft developed with foreign
Law.                                     advisors, and structured consultation
undertaken.
ii. Draft submitted to Parliament by
February 1996.
iii. Draft passed by Parliament.
iv. Number of petroleum agreements
passed under the new Law.
v. Clarification of responsibilities of
Government, SOCAR and other entities
under the Law.
2. Training of SOCAR Staff.             i.  Number of staff trained (target 200 by
Jan. 1997).



-30-
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
3. Installation of Computer and             i.  Detailed procurement and installation
Communications Equipment in SOCAR           plan for PCs developed.
ii. Number of PCs effectively installed
(incl. software and hardware- target 80
PCs by Jan. 1997).
iii. Number of staff trained in use of PCs.
iv. Installation of one satellite
communication system and staff trained
in use by Jun. 1996.
(C) Preparing Investment Projects in Petroleum Sub-sector
Indicators                                Measurements
1. Investment Projects for Rehabilitation    i.  Complete investment study by January
of Oil Rocks and Old Offshore Oilfields     1997.
ii. Follow up of investment study with
joint ventures with foreign companies
and/or projects with multilateral
financing.
2. Old Onshore Oilfield Restructuring       i.  Complete investment study by January
Projects                                    1997.
ii. Number of projects packaged and
presented to potential foreign investors
or financiers.
iii. Follow up with joint ventures with
foreign companies and/or projects with
multilateral financing.



-31 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
3. Gas Processing Facilities             i.  Complete investment study by January
Reconstruction                           1997.
ii. Follow up of investment study with
joint venture with foreign companies
and/or projects with international
financing.






