                                     Documentof
                                 TheWorldBank




                                                      ReportNo.:36013




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                             AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

             PETROLEUMTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                  (Credit 2708-AZ)


                                   April 27,2006




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
Independent Evaluation Group

CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Azerbaijanian Manat (AZM)

1995                                                     4413 Manats
                          US$l.oo
                          US$1.oo
1996                                                     4301 Manats
1997                      US$l.OO                        3985 Manats
1998                      US$l.OO                        3869 Manats
1999                      US$l.OO                        4120 Manats
2000                      US$l.OO                        4474 Manats


Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD              European Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
FID               Foreign Investment Department (of SOCAR)
FSU               Former Soviet Union
GOA               Government o f Azerbaijan
ICR               ImplementationCompletionReport
IDA               International Development Association
IEG               IndependentEvaluationGroup
IT                Information Technology
MIS               Management Information System
MOP               Memorandumo f the President
MT                Metric Ton
MTR               MidtermReview
PCD              Project Concept Document
PlU              Project Implementation Unit
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
PSA              ProductionSharing Agreement
PTAP             Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
QAE               Quality at Entry
REC              Reservoir Engineering Center
SOCAR
sw                State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic
                 StaffWeek
TA               Technical Assistance




Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31


Director-General, Evaluation                             : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, IndependentEvaluation, World Bank             : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global EvaluationDivision: Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr.Fernando Manibog

                                                              i


    IEG Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independenceinevaluation.


 About this Report
        The Independent EvaluationGroupassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bankfor two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verifythat the Bank'swork is producingthe
 expected results, and second, to helpdevelop improved directions,policies,and proceduresthrough the
 disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEG annuallyassessesabout 25 percentof the
 Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are innovative,
 large,or complex; thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which Executive
 Directors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and thosethat are likely to generate important lessons.
 The projects, topics, andanalyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluationstudies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
 PPARs, IEGstaff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 IEGstudies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management approval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEGwebsite:
 http://worldbank.org/oed).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistentwith the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainability:The resilienceto risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitableand sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency,enforceability,and predictability of institutionalarrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the missionand capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................       v

Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................       v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................          ..
                                                                                                                                               vi1

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................         ix

1 Country and Sector Background
 .                                                           ................................................................................     1

         TheRole of the Bank and Previous Operations in the Sector..................................                                              2
2 The Project
 .                     ...................................................................................................................        2
         Concept. Objectives. and Design .............................................................................                            2
         Components and Implementation ............................................................................                               3
         Quality at Entry.......................................................................................................                 -5
        Project Results .........................................................................................................                 5
                    Relevance..................................................................................................... 5
                    Efficacy........................................................................................................              6
                    Efficiency..................................................................................................... 8
                    Outcome....................................................................................................... 9
                    Institutional Development Impact................................................................                              9
                    Sustainability..............................................................................................
                             . . .                                                                                                              10
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                      11
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                        12
3 LessonsLearned
 .                             .........................................................................................................       13

Annex A BasicData Sheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................      15

Annex B ProjectComponents.Allocated Costs andActualDisbursements
           .                                                                                                                        .............18




This reportwas preparedby MohammadFarhandi(Consultant). who assessedthe projectinApril 2005.
The report was editedbyWilliamHurlbut.and HelenPhillip providedadministrative support                                            .


                                                         V



PrincipalRatings
                                              /CR*                ICR Review*                        PPAR
Outcome                                   Satisfactory              Moderately                 Unsatisfactory
                                                                   Satisfactory
Sustainability                               Likely              Non-Evaluable                 Non-Evaluable
Institutional Development Impact             Modest                  Modest                        Modest
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory




* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediate IndependentEvaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to independentlyverify the
findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
Project                            Task ManagedLeader                Division Chief/            Country Director
                                                                     Sector Director
  Appraisal                           Michael Levitsky               Jonathan Brown                Yukon Huang
  Completion                          Michael Levitsky              Peter Thompson                Judy O'Connor


                                               vii


 Preface


        This i s a Project Perfomance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Azerbaijan
PetroleumTechnical Assistance Project. A credit o f SDR14.3 million (US$20.8 million)
was approved for the project on April 20, 1995, and became effective on November 22,
 1995. The credit closed on November 30,2000, and SDR 7.3 million (US$11.5 million)
was cancelled.

        The PPAR presents the findings of amissionto AzerbaijaninApril 2005 by the
World Bank Independent EvaluationGroup (IEG). The missionmet with the officials o f
the State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic (SOCAR), State Gas Company
(Azerigas), Ministryo f Industry and Energy (MIE), Ministry o f Economic Development
(MED), EuropeanBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment (EBRD),as well as with
private oil and gas companies and the Bank staff. The cooperation and assistanceof the
government officials, the officials o f energy sector entities, and various other concerned
organizations i s gratehlly acknowledged.

        The project was the Bank's first lendingoperation inAzerbaijan andwas for a
sector whose viable operation was essential to the country's economic recovery. The
project's concept and principal objectivewere consistent with the country's development
priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy, but manyproject activities were not
completed and over 50 percent o f the credit amount was cancelled. Also, the project's
performance ratings under the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) differedinsome
areas from those inthe ICR Reviewprepared byIEG.For those reasons, and because o f
the continuing importance o f the oil and gas sector to the economy, an assessmentwas
deemednecessary.The purpose o fthe PPARwas to assess inmore depththe project's
quality at entry, as well as its outcome, institutional development impact, and
sustainability, to propose lessons from the experience. (Concurrently with this PPAR,
IEGalso assessedthe Gas System Rehabilitationproject).

        The PPAR draws on the Memorandumand Recommendation ofthe President
(MOP) andits appendedTechnical Annex (Report No. T-6377-AZ o fMarch 28, 1995),
the ICR (Report No. 22113 o f May 31,2001), and other related documents.

        Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o fthe draft PPAR were sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comments, but none were
received.


                                               i x


 Summary

         Azerbaijan's oil production beganto decline almost two decades before its
 independence in 1991. The decline was due to inadequate investment, lags inusing
 modem technology, andthe natural depletion o f the producing oilfields.

         After the disintegration o fthe Soviet Union, Azerbaijan's economy declined
 rapidly and real output fell by over 50 percent duringthe period 1991-95, Revival o f the
 oil and gas (hydrocarbon) sector was considered the most effective way to reverse the
 economic downturn. Increasedrevenue from oil exports and reduced natural gas imports
 were expected to generate substantial earnings inforeign exchange. Accordingly, the
 country's development agenda gave its highest priority to increasing hydrocarbon
 production. This was supported by the Bank's country strategy at the time.

         However, to revive the hydrocarbon sector, Azerbaijan faced two sets o f
 challenges. One was the need to continue investments inthe existing fields to maintain
 the production. But the fields were old, production was declining, and the infrastructure
 was dilapidated. Another was the even larger investment required (estimated at US$10
 billion over 1995-2005) to tap the potential for new production from large undeveloped
 offshore fields, which had far greater prospects than the existing fields.

         Since most o f the needed investment (both for the development o f new fields and
 the rehabilitation o f the old ones) had to come from the private sector, the Bank's strategy
was to support the government with a package o f technical assistance (TA). The main
objective o f this assistance was to create an enabling policy and institutional environment
to facilitate private sector investment inthe petroleum sector. This objective was
consistent with the country and the Bank strategy. However, the design o f the project had
several shortcomings. The most important o f these was that the multitude o f diverse
activities and the significant policy conditions exceeded the limited capacity o f the
implementing agency and the government. As a result, the ability to achieve the project's
main objective was substantially weakened. Also, the majority o f the credit amount was
allocated to address problems associated with the existing fields and related
infrastructure, whereas the production increases were to come largely from the new
undeveloped fields.

        By early 1994, the country's focus shifted toward the development o fthe new
offshore fields and international oil companies rushed to sign Production Sharing
Agreements for the undeveloped offshore basins. This distracted government attention
from the project's aims and left implementation essentially up to the Project
Implementation Unit.But the PTUdidnot have sufficient authority to ensure the
implementation o f the key policy actions needed to ensure a successful project outcome.

        The Bank twice missed opportunities to adjust the project's design to the rapidly
changing environment. First, duringthe project preparation stage from 1993 to 1995 the
design evolved very little. Yet by 1995 the shift inthe country's andprivate sector's
focus toward the undeveloped fields had already occurred. The Bank didnot rebalance
the project's components to increase the activities related to undeveloped fields. Further,

                                              X


                         t
duringimplementation, eventhe activities that were included inthe project's original
scope for the undeveloped fields were not implemented. Second, the Bank didnot
restructure the project to simplifythe design and sharpenits objectives following the
midtermreview (MTR), even though only about 10%percent o fthe credit hadbeen
disbursed after two years o f implementation.

        The project's poor quality at entry, combined with the shift of the government's
focus to undeveloped fields, caused the project to gradually lose momentum and
undermined the achievement o f its objectives. Many activities were never completed,
including major ones such as the development ofpetroleum legislation and exploration
promotion. At the end, about 50 percent o f the credit amount was canceled, and o f the
amount disbursed, about halfwas for activities that were not part o f the project's original
scope. Accordingly, the outcome o f the project i s rated unsatisfactory and its
sustainability'is non-evaluable. While the project contributed to strengthening State Oil
Company's (SOCAR'S)institutional capacity, the extent o f the contribution was limited
given the size o f the SOCAR operation, and institutional development impact i s thus
rated as modest. The Bank's performance duringlending and implementation phases is
rated unsatisfactory and the borrower's performance is also rated unsatisfactory on
balance.

Some o f the key lessons fi-om this evaluation are:

         0   Undercountry and sector conditions like those inAzerbaijan, the design o f
             the project should have been simpler, to include only a few highimpact
             components and substantial "real time" interventions by the Bank inresponse
            to the borrower's needs.

         0   The need to include major legislative action as a policy condition needs to be
             carefully considered based on borrower ownership and capacity.


         0  The Bank needs to ensure that the borrower has inplace the necessary
            arrangements and commitments to ensure that PIUs are given adequate
            authority (including financial authority) to deal with day-to-day
            implementation issues.



                                                                         Vinod Thomas
                                                                        Director-General
                                                                           Evaluation

                                                 1


 1.      Country and Sector Background

 1.1        The hydrocarbon sector historically has been a prominent feature o f
 Azerbaijan's economy, accounting for about 15 percent o f GDP in 1991. Evenbefore the
 dissolution o f the Soviet Union, however, oil production hadbegun to decline.
 Shortcomings intechnology and inadequate investment were partly to blame, but onshore
hydrocarbon reserves also hadbeen depleted. Oil production fell from 20 milliontons in
 1970 to halfthat level in 1993, andnet oil exports fell 81 percent, from 8 million tons in
 1981to 1.5 million tons in 1993. Natural gas production also declined 43 percent, from
 14billion cubic meters in 1980 to 8 billion cubic meters in 1993. As natural gas
accounted for 60 percent o f domestic energy use, Azerbaijan became a large net importer
o f natural gas, which put a heavy burden on the economy.

 1.2        Azerbaijan's economy contracted more than 50 percent between 1991and
 1995, mostly a consequence o f the disintegration o f highly interdependent economies o f
the Soviet Union. Inflationranged from 800 percent to 1800 percent, real wages declined
and, mainly due to the decline inoil revenue, the government account registered a deficit
o f 11to 13 percent o f GDP.

 1.3        Revival o f the hydrocarbon sector was considered the best hope for an
economic recovery, but such a revivalwould have to address multiple challenges. The
continued operation o f the existing fields was essential inorder to maintain the current
production. But the fields were old, production was declining, and the dilapidated
infrastructure would require substantialrehabilitation investment. Inaddition, the only
export outlet for oil was the pipeline from Bakuto Russia. Finally, the country's two old
refineries needed to be upgraded, The country also had large undeveloped offshore fields
with great potential, buttheir development required an even larger investment-
estimated at the time at US$lO billion over 1995-2005.

1.4         The economic structure o fthe sector made investment on such a large scale
impossible. The price o f energy products was mostly below international levels, and the
low prices had created a precarious financial situation for the energy enterprises, which
contributed to the lack o f new investment andthe inadequate investments inmaintenance
and replacement. Although Azerbaijan adopted a privatization law in 1993, no program
was adopted to implement the law. Further, the institutional structure o f the sector was
weak. The State Oil Company o f the Republic (SOCAR) was established inSeptember
1992. However, at the time there was no ministry o f energy or petroleum, thus
government capacity for focusing on strategic aspects o f energy policy was limited.       '
1.5        Under these conditions, the World Bank's strategy (precipitated by an Energy
Sector Review carried out by the Bank in 1993 under Report No. 12061-AZ), was to
support the government through a package o f technical assistance (TA). The main
objective o f this package, known as the Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, was to
create an enabling policy and institutional environment to facilitate private sector


1. The Ministry of FuelandEnergywas established inApril 2001 andsubsequently was replacedbythe
Ministry ofIndustryand EnergyinDecember2004.

                                                     2


investment inthe petroleum sector, to strengthen the sector institutions, and to liberalize
petroleum product prices.

 1.6         Oilproductionwas eventually turned around in 1995-though primarily
because o f development o f the offshore fields-and           the economy slowly beganto
recover. Growth has averaged about 10percent a year over the past five years. The oil
production i s expectedto peak by 2010/2011, Barringany new discovery, production
will decline rapidly afterwards, possibly dropping to its 2000 levelby 2025. Therefore,
Azerbaijan's continued economic recovery will depend on whether it can economically
and efficiently manage the exploitation o f these exhaustible resources.

The Role of the Bank andPreviousOperationsin the Sector

 1.7         Azerbaijan became independent in 1991 andjoined the Bank inSeptember
 1992. Following the preparation o f its first Country Economic Memorandum inJuly
 1993, the first sector work was a broad review o f the energy sector completed in
December 1993, The first lending operation for the country was for the Petroleum
Technical Assistance Project, which was approved inApril 1995.



2.        The Project

Concept,Objectives, andDesign

2.1         The concept for the Petroleum Technical Assistance Project was consistent
with the macroeconomic and sectoral context, aimingto attract foreign private investors
inAzerbaijan's petroleum sector to increase hydrocarbonproduction.'

2.2         The project's objectives, as provided inthe Memorandum o f the President
3wereto (a) accelerate foreign private investment and financial participation inpetroleum
exploration and production byproviding technical assistance to SOCAR, particularly for
restructuring o f the Guneshli field4; (b) strengthenpetroleum subsector institutions
through development o f petroleum legislation, training, and improvement ininformation
systems; and (c) prepare investment projects inthe petroleum subsector, throughjoint
studies between SOCAR and foreign advisors.

2.3         The design o f the project mostly originated from the findings o f the Energy
Sector Review (para. 1.5). That review provided a broad analysis o f sectoral issues, and

2. The project's concept and objectives were broadly consistent with Azerbaijan's first Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), which was presented to the Board on April 20, 1995. It was inthe form o f a limited CAS,
and was presented together with the Memorandum o f the President for the project as an integrated
document, under ReportNo. P-6377-AZ.
3. A Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was not prepared for the project. A Technical Annex was prepared.
4. The Guneshli field accounted for about 60% o fthe oil production inAzerbaijan inearly 1990's. Its
production peaked in 1990 and thenbegan to decline mainly as the result o f inadequate water injection
program.

recommended a wide range o fpolicy and operational actions intendedto attract foreign
investors to increase hydrocarbonproductionand to rehabilitate the existing energy-
related infrastructure as well as constructing new infrastructure. The review emphasized
the needto address the pricing distortions, strengthenthe sector's institutions, develop a
legal framework, establish regulatory agencies, mitigate environmental concerns, and
focus on more efficient productionanduse o fnaturalgas. To this end, the review
provided a detailed policy matrix and recommended that the government seek a
comprehensive program o ftechnical assistancefrom international donors inorder to
develop the sector. Many o fthe project's activities were based on this policy matrix.

Components andImplementation

2.4        The project consisted o f 11components, entailing 17 activities. These
components fall under four broad categories (Annex B).

    a)      Supportto SOCAR to facilitateprivateinvestmentsinpetroleum
            explorationandproduction(68 percent ofthe project's base cost, or
            US$14.4 million). The components under this category consisted o f (a)
            financial and contractual advice to assist SOCAR innegotiatingcontracts with
            foreign oil companies for the Guneshli field rehabilitation, export pipeline,
            and other petroleum field and infrastructure projects; (b) legal advice to assist
            SOCAR innegotiatingcontracts with foreign oil companies for petroleum
            projects, export pipeline, and Caspian Seaboundary issues; (c) technical and
            costing advice to assist SOCARwith preparing and managing a rehabilitation
            contract for the Guneshli field (shallow water) and for other petroleum
            projects; and (d) advisory services for petroleumlicensing and explorations
            promotion. These four components covered nineactivities, the main
            objectives o fwhich were to facilitate foreign investment inpetroleum
            explorationand production, and to prepare a rehabilitation project for the
            shallow water part o f the Guneshli field. At the project's closing date, only
            about 4 percent (US$0.55 million) o fthe resources allocated to this category
            was used, and seven o fthe nine activities were not completed, including
            critical activities related to financial and contractual advice to SOCAR, the
            mainphase o frehabilitation o f Guneshlifield (i.e., Phase II), the advisory
                                                                              and
            services for petroleum licenses and explorationpromotion. The only activities
           that were implementedwere the Phase Istudy of the Guneshli field and a legal
           studyof Caspian Seaboundary. The reasonsfor not proceeding with
           implementationo f the seven activities ranged from the objectives o f the
           activity being overtaken by the rapidly unfolding events inthe country and the
           sector, to procurement problems.

   b)      Institutionalstrengthening(8 percent ofproject's base cost, or US$1.6
           million). The components under this category consisted o f (a) development o f
           petroleum legislationto provide a legal and fiscal framework for exploration
           and production o fthe country's petroleumresources; (b) development o f
           management informationsystem, to strengthen SOCAR's ability in
           information technology, provide it with satellite communications, and procure

                                                     4


               computers; and (c) training o f SOCAR staff incommercial aspects o fthe
               petroleum industry. Component "a" was not implementedbecause the
               government decided not to proceedwith it. Component "b" was not
               implementedbecauseofaprocurement problem. Only the training o f SOCAR
               staffwas carried out. About 16percent (US$0.25 million) o f the amount
               allocated to this category was used.

     c)        Investmentprojectstudies (16 percent oftheproject's base cost, or US$3.35
               million). There were four components under this category related to studies
               for (a) rehabilitation and restructuring o f Oil Rocks and other old offshore
               oilfields; (b) rehabilitation of the old onshore oilfields; (c) restructuring o f gas
               processing facilities; and (d) export pipelinefor Early Oil. The four studies
               aimed to prepare a package o f technical and economic evaluation that would
               facilitate decisions by foreign investors to invest inthese areas. All but the
               export pipeline study were completed, and 88 percent (US$2.95 million) o f
               the funds allocated to this category was spent.

     d)       PIUsupport(3 percent ofthe project's basecost, or US$0.75million). This
              consisted solely o f support for the Project ImplementationUnit (PIU). About
              US$l.15 millionwas usedfor this component.

2.5          Three additional activities were implementedbut were not part o f the project's
objectives or original scope o fwork.

     a)       Environmentalaspects of petroleumoperation. An amount ofUS$200,000
              was spent for this activity.'

    b)        Reservoir EngineeringCenter. About US$2.8 millionwas usedto establish
              the center (para 2.18).

     c)       Financialaudit of SOCAR. The legaldocuments only requiredthe annual
              audit o fthe project accounts. However, an audit o f SOCAR was carried out
              under the project at a cost of about US$1.3 million. Thiswas the first audit of
              SOCAR inaccordancewith internationalstandards.

2.6          At the project's closingdate (November 30,2000), about $9.5 millionofthe
Credit's $21 millionwas usedand the balance was cancelled (interms o f SDR, from the
original amount o f SDR 14.3 million, SDRl.5 million was cancelled due to MIS
misprocurement and SDR 5.8 millionwas cancelled upon closing). The project's closing
date was extendedby one year to accommodate the procurement of advisors for export
pipelinenegotiations, which were never completed.




5. There is no mention o fthis item inthe Technical Annex or MOP of the project, although the Credit
Agreement provides for this itemunder Project Description, part A2.

                                                     5


 Quality at Entry

 2.7         The project's quality at entry (QAE) suffered from several shortcomings. First,
 the design included too many components and activities for the limited capacity o f the
 system that was to implement them. At the time, the sector was inthe early phase o f its
 transition from central planningto a more liberalized operation, and suffered from myriad
 issues, including staff unfamiliarity with "western" type approaches to sector
 management and operation as well as with the Bank's lending operations. At the macro
 level, the economy was going through a steep downturn. Under such conditions, it was
 unrealistic to expect the system to provide the effective coordination, strategic direction,
 and supervision o f numerous foreign consultants needed to implement such a large
 number o f activities.6

 2.8         Second, as Bank experience has shown elsewhere, some o f the policy action
 required under the project would have been difficult to achieve even under more
 "normal" conditions. Hence, petroleum legislation was never completed despite the
 provision o f dated covenants inthe Credit Agreement.

 2.9        Third, the major share o fthe credit amount was allocated for rehabilitation and
 promotion o f the old oilfields andrelated infrastructure. As the focus o f the petroleum
 activities changed to the new undeveloped fields by early 1994, the project design was
 not adjusted to bringit more inline with these changes, considering that the project was
 approved inApril 1995. Inthe end, most o f the production increase came from the new
 fields (mostly offshore).'

 2.10       Finally, the project did not focus on the major risk identified inthe CAS. The
 CAS specified weak institutions as a major risk, while the project identified the main
 risks as implementation delays and the necessary follow up with the TAs.

2.11        These shortcomings at entry contributed substantially to the problems during
project implementation and affected the project outcome. Onthis basis, the assessment
rates the QAE as unsatisfactory.


Project Results

Relevance

2,12        The key objectives o f the Petroleum Technical Assistance Project continue to
be relevant to Azerbaijan's development priorities and are consistent with Bank's
assistance strategy. An increase inoil and gas production contributed to a turnaround in
the economy during 1997-2002, when it grew at an average o f about 9 percent per year,

6. When the project concept document was under review, one peer reviewer raised concerns regarding the
large number o f components, and reiterated those concerns when reviewing the revised project concept.
7. The project had envisaged that the development of oilfields would increase the production from 10
milliontons in 1995 to 45 million tons in 10 years and that oil exports would rise from about 1million tons
in 1994to about 34 million tons in2005. The actualproductionin2004 was 16million tons and actual
exports were about 11million tons.

                                                    6


 while annual inflation dropped to less than 1percent. The 2003-05 CAS (report No.
 25790-AZ) provides a strategy that also aims to help realize the oil potential o fthe
 country andmanage the recent windfall, inorder to generatejobs andboost non-oil
 growth.

 2.13        The objectives also continue to be consistent with sectoral strategy as defined
 inarecent sectorreview.' The countryhasacceleratedits oilproductionandexports,
 although this has come as the result o f exploitation of the new offshore fields. Also,
 more emphasis i s now beinggivento efficient use of natural gas, including the recent
 increase inthe price o f gas to recover the full cost o f supply. A Ministryo f Industryand
 Energywas created in2001, to better integrate the energy subsectors (oil, gas, and
 power). A study i s underwayby EBRD for restructuring SOCAR and establishing a
 regulatory agency. IFC i s currently involved ina large investment for the export pipeline
 and for oil production. Thus, some o fthe key objectives o f the project have been
 achieved, although their achievement has beenthe result o f actions outside the scope and
 time frame ofthe project. Nonetheless, these objectives remainsubstantially relevant to
 the country's development priorities and sectoral strategy, andtherefore this assessment
 rates the relevance ofproject's objectives as substantial.


EfJicacy

2.14         The following section discusses the extent to which each objective was
 achieved  .
     (a) To accelerate foreign private investment and financial participationinpetroleum
          explorationandproduction, particularly for restructuring the Guneshli field.

2.15         The objectives o fthe four components underthis category (US$14.4 million
from total Credit amount o fUS$21 million) aimed to provide various types o f advice to
SOCAR to help develop petroleumprojects that would be attractive to foreign investors.

2.16         The first component (US$4.7 million) consisted of four activities, to provide
financial and contractual advice to SOCAR, inconnection with (i)             the export pipeline, (ii)
re-development of the Guneshli field, (iii) petroleumdevelopment projects, and (iv)
                                                 other
other infrastructure projects. None o f these activities were completed (see para 2.18 for
Guneshlifield).

2.17        The second component (US$1.26 million) consisted o ftwo activities to provide
legal advice to SOCAR inconnection with (i)          an export pipeline and (ii)   Caspian Sea
boundaryissues. Only the Caspian Seaboundary study was carried out (at a cost o f
US$300,000). The export pipelinestudy was not done due to disagreement on the short
list o f consultants.

2.18        The third component (US$8.4 million) consisted of(i)           preparation and
management o f arehabilitationcontract (including the preparation o fthe bid documents)

8. "Azerbaijan: Issues and Options Associated with Energy Sector Reform," a Bank report dated November
2004.

                                                     7


 for the shallow part o f the existing Guneshlifield (US$6.5 million); and (ii)           technical and
 costing advice for development o f other fields (US$1.9 million). The rehabilitation o f
 Guneshliwas to be carried out inphases. OnlyPhaseI(Pre-Project Planning) was carried
 out at a cost o fUS$250,000. Phase I1(and a possible Phase 111),which was meant to
 prepare a comprehensive tender and contract award documents, andto supervise the
 construction of the rehabilitation contract, was not implemented. The main reasonwas
 that the government could not secure a commitment from private investors to invest in
 the rehabilitation o f the field. As a result, IDA and SOCAR agreedto reallocate part o f
 the resources (US$2.8 million) originally allocated for Phase I1to establish a Reservoir
 EngineeringCenter (REC). Although some o fthe project's documents refer to
 establishment o f REC as Phase 11, REC was not part o fthe original objective, and its
 functions are different than the scope o fwork envisioned for Phase I1o fthe Guneshli
 field rehabilitati~n.~ activity relatedto "other fields" was not carried out.
                          The

 2.19          The fourth component (for which no specific amount was allocated), consisted
 o f the activity related to the development and implementation o fpolicy for petroleum
 exploration and production. This was not implemented.

 2.20          The performance indicators for these components includedthe numbero f
 exploration andproductionagreements concluded, number o fjoint ventures signed, and
 the amount (inUS$ millions) of foreign investmentcommittedand disbursed.With
 regard to the export pipeline, the performance indicators also included the analysis o f the
 project alternatives and agreedpipeline routing. The performance indicators specific to
 Guneshlifield included(inadditionto the amount o finvestment committed and
 disbursed)theprogress made inimprovingthe rate o fproduction. However, none of
these occurred. Infact, as o f end-2004, no private investorhadparticipated inthe
rehabilitation o f the Guneshlifield.

2.21          Thus, from atotal ofUS$14.4 million allocated to this objectivecategory, only
US$550,000 was used(an additionalUS$2.8 millionwas usedto establish the REC but
this was not part ofthe original objective). The key components that were not
implementedwere the provision o ftechnical and financial advice to SOCAR, the study
for export pipeline, and the substantive works related to preparation andmanagement o f a
rehabilitation contract for the Guneshli field (Annex B). Therefore, the extent to which
this objective has been achieved is rated as negligible.

     (b) To strenahenpetroleumsector institutions.

2.22          The main objective o f the three components under this category (US$1.6
million from US$21million) was to strengthen the petroleum sector institutions. Despite
its formal commitment to the implementationo fpetroleum legislation, the government
decided not to proceedwith this component.'o The management informationsystem also


9. The contractor for Phase Iinformed SOCAR that due to major modification o f Phase 11, the REC falls
underthe purview of another affiliated company, with expertise insubsurface studies.
10.The commitment was a key condition o f the Credit agreement, in form o ftwo dated covenants; (i)to
submit an interimreport to the Bankby September 30, 1995,and, after the Bank's review, (ii) submit a
                                                                                            to
final draft to the Supreme Soviet by February 29, 1996.

                                                       8


 was not implemented, due to procurement issues, resulting inthe Bank declaring
 misprocurement and subsequently canceling about US$2 million o f the Credit. The
 training component was the only one completed, and about 250 staff o f SOCAR were
 trained invarious short-term courses related to the petroleum industry.

 2.23           The implementation o fpetroleum legislation for the country andthe
 establishment o f an effective management information system for SOCAR (which is
 essential to its operation and finances) are crucial to attractingprivate investors. Neither
 o f the two components was implemented. While the implementation o f training
 component was useful for capacity building, training 250 of SOCAR staff inan
 organization of 50,000 employees would provide little comfort to private investors."
 Therefore, the extent to which this objective has been achieved is rated as negligible.

      (c) To prepare investment projects inthe petroleum sector through joint studies
           between SOCAR and foreign advisors.

 2.24          The main objective o f the four components under this category (US$3.35
 million from US$21 million), was to prepare investment studies infour areas (para. 2 . 4 ~ ) ~
 to facilitate decisions by private investors. Three o f the studies were completed. The
 study on the export pipeline was not undertakenbecause, due to time constraints,
 SOCAR decided to procure advisors from its own resources. These studies were useful
 intwo ways. First, they revealed, for the first time, the needs inthe country's petroleum
 sector, which resulted insubstantial interest by potential investors (although no actual
 investment took place). Second, the "road show" presentation o f the studies exposed
 SOCAR staff to the international oil industry and to the challenges SOCAR hadto face to
 deal with vast number o f sector issues.'' Because o f the usefulness o f these studies, the
 extent to which this objective has been achieved is rated as substantial.

 2.25          Thus, most o fthe major objectives o f the project were not met. Moreover, less
than halfo f the project funds were used and some of those funds were used for
 components that were not directly related to achieving the project's objectives. Although
some o f the key objectives of the project (such as accelerating foreign private investment
inthe sector) havebeenachieved, their achievement was not due to the project.
Therefore, this assessmentrates theproject 's overall eficacy as negligible.

Efficiency

2.26           There i s no quantitative way o f measuring the efficiency o f this project, given
that it consists o f technical assistance activities only. Besides, many o f the project's
objectives were not met. Therefore, an assessment o f efficiency would not be meaningful.
However, ifa qualitative assessment o f the project's efficiency i s to be provided, the

11.The programincludedtraining for some o fthe managers but mostly for the technical staff. The amount
usedfor the programwas $250,000, or an average o f$1000per staff, including the traveling costs o f some
o f the staff to Boston.
12. The Bank didnot participate during presentation o fthese studies to the investors. The performance
indicators for these studies required the follow-ups with the investors andjoint ventures, but the follow-ups
were not specificallypart o f the project objectives.

                                                      9


 implementation delays due to several changes inthe scope o f the original designjustify
 ratingproject efficiency as modest.


 Outcome

 2.27        The overarching objective o f the project was to create an enabling policy and
 institutional environment that would allow foreign investors to be mobilized efficiently in
 the petroleum subsector. The achievement o f this overall objective was negligible. This
 was inpart because the project's poor quality at entry (para.2.7), which weakened the
 project's focal objective by spreading it across many diverse activities. Further, no action
 was taken to rectify some o f the shortcomings associated with the project's original
 design, either before Board approval or duringimplementation, such as a formal
 restructuring o f the project at mid-term review.

 2.28       Only6 o fthe project's 17activities were implemented. Among the activities
 that were not implemented were those that were critical to facilitating the participation o f
private investors, such as provisiono f financial, legal, and technical advisors for
 development o f (i)   a legislative framework for petroleum exploration and production; (ii)
petroleum licensing and exploration promotion programs; (iii) MIS for SOCAR.; and
                                                                          an
 (iv) the export pipeline. Although the implementationcompletion report (ICR) indicates
that it is difficult to assess the contribution o f the project inisolation, the activity-by-
 activity assessment under each objective category shows that the contributions from
project components were negligible to achieve the focal objective o f the project. Two
positive outcomes o f the project-neither          o f which was among the original activities-
were the first audit o f SOCAR inaccordance with international standards, and the
establishment o f REC, both o f which have contributed to the institutional development o f
SOCAR (para.2.29). Given this implementation record, and based on the ratings of
substantialfor relevance, negligiblefor eficacy and modestfor eflciency, this
assessmentrates the outcome of theproject as unsatisfactory.


Institutional Development Impact

2.29        SOCAR had sole responsibility for implementing all aspects o f the project.
The only item under the government's responsibility was the implementation o f new
petroleum legislation, which was cancelled. The project affected the institutional
development o f SOCAR inthree areas.

2.30        Reservoir Engineering Center. Duringthe Phase Istudy o fthe Guneshli field,
the reservoir modeling capability o f SOCAR was determined to be inadequate. It was
therefore agreed to reallocate some o f the funds (US$2.8 million) for the development o f
a Reservoir Engineering Center.13The funds were usedto train 13 staff inNorway in
geophysical, geological, petrophysical, and reservoir andproduction engineering. Part o f
the fundingwas used to procure office equipment and software. REC provides technical

13. This assessment didnot find any communication indicating that the project documents were formally
amended to provide for the reallocationo f $2.8 million for the REC. However, the Aide memoire o f
October 1996 includes $1.3 million as a preliminary cost estimate for REC, and the management letter
subsequently approved the Aide memoire.

                                                     10


 services to SOCAR's exploration andproduction departments, andplans to provide fee-
 based services to international oil companies (IOCs). Although the REC has helpedto
 improve SOCAR's ability to makebetter use o f the country's hydrocarbon resources, the
 role o f the REC i s not clear, considering the ongoing initiative for restructuring o f
 SOCAR. Ifit were to provide commercial services to IOCs operating inAzerbaijan-a
 likely outcome under arestructured SOCAR-it               would needto expand its facilities and
 enhance its technical capabilities to be able to compete with the private sector.

 2.31         Training. The projectprovided specialized short-duration training inpetroleum
 industrytopics to about 250 SOCAR staff. Further,during the preparationofthe
 investmentproject studies andtheir promotions, SOCAR staffwere exposedto additional
 learning forums during the presentations o f those reports to stakeholders, which helpedto
 improve their skills inanswering various questions related to investmentprojects and in
 futurenegotiations with foreign oil investors.

 2.32         Financial audit ofproject accounts and of SOCAR. According to the ICR, in
 addition to the annual audit o fthe project accounts, an audit o f SOCAR was required
 underthe Credit agreement.14Thus, a full audit of SOCAR for 1997/1998 was carried
 out. This was the first audit o f SOCAR inaccordancewith international accounting
 standards and appropriate auditing principles. The audits for 1999 and 2000 were not
 carried out because o f Credit closing date o fNovember 2000.15 Therewas no specific
 category or allocation for SOCAR audit, but an amount o f US$1.3 million was disbursed
 from the project for this purpose. The 1997/1998 audit had a positive institutional impact
on SOCAR inthat it improved the company's ability to use its financial resources
consistent with international standards and accounting principles.

2.33         While eachofthe above has contributed to improving SOCAR's ability to use
more efficiently its resources, the overall extent i s limitedgiven the size o f the SOCAR
operation.l6This assessment rates theproject's institutional development impact as
modest.

Sustainability

2.34         Although the net benefit generatedthrough implementationo f some o fthe
components will likelybe sustainable (Le., training, reservoir engineering center, Caspian
Sea study, and audit o f SOCAR), considering that the project consisted entirely o f
technical assistance, that most o fthe activities were not completed, and that the overall


14. This assessmenthas not been able to verify this requirement under the Credit agreement.
15. The auditor had two major reservations inthe 1997/98 audit: inaccessibility to SOCAR's refinery and
inadequacy o f SOCAR's information system and records for an audit according to international standards.
These issues were resolved and the audit was completed but only in September 2000, or two months before
the credit closing date. SOCAR subsequently completed 1999and 2000 audits, usingits own resources.
16. SOCAR is one o f the largest state-owned enterprise inAzerbaijan responsible for all aspects o f
exploration and development o f oil and gas inthe country. It employs over 50,000 people and it makes
contributions to government revenue from both the operating activities it manages and from its holding in
production sharing agreements andjoint ventures. It also plays a regulatory role and act as a single buyer
ofgas for the domestic market.

                                                  11


   objective o f the project was not achieved, an assessment o f sustainability at the project
   level would not be meaningful. Th<sassessment rates theproject's overall sustainability
   as not evaluable.

   BankPerformance

   2.35       Lending.This was the Bank's first project ina country that was inthe early
   stages o f a difficult transition. As discussed earlier, the project's quality at entry was not
   satisfactory inseveral ways, includingnot fully considering the necessary commitment,
   capacity, and skills needed by SOCAR and the government to effectively coordinate and
   supervise such a complex undertaking under difficult country and sector conditions.
   Further, considering the time that elapsed between the review o fthe project concept and
   the Boardpresentation o f the project (three years), ample opportunities existed for the
   Bank to have considered a more balanced design. This assessmentrates the Bank's
  performance during lending as unsatisfactoy.

   2.36       Supervision.The quality o fBank's supervisionwas uneven, partlybecause o f
   frequent changes inthe task management. The quality o f supervision improved duringthe
   later years but implementation continued to be hindered byproblems stemming from the
  project's design. However, the major shortcoming o f the Bank's performance during
  implementation concerned the mid-ternreview (MTR), held inOctober 1997, about two
  years after the effectiveness o f the Credit. At the time o f the MTR, many o f the problems
  had already surfaced, particularly those related to the quality o f the project design and
  includingthe fact that only about 10percent o f the Credit hadbeen disbursed. Yet, no
  attempt seems to have been made to formally restructure the project at the MTRto
  sharpen the project's objectives and simplify the design.

  2.37        Inaddition, the Bank shouldhave made every effort to deviseways to
  overcome some o f the procurement obstacles, particularly those related to procurement o f
  critical components such as the management information system. Bids for the M I S were
  received almost 4 years after the project hadbecome effective, and despite the
  involvement o f a consultant to help SOCAR (inview o f SOCAR's lack o f in-house
  capacity inIT area) with the preparation o f the IT specifications andbiddocuments.
~

  Four years i s ample time to resolve the "compatibility" issue so that the bids didnot have
  to be declared non-responsive by SOCAR (and declared responsive by the Bank), which
  resulted inthe Bank declaring misprocurement. This is inpart related to the point raised
  inthe ICRregarding the supervisionteamnothavingthe appropriate skills mix neededto
  prepare feasible procurement-technicalpackages for the information technology
  components. Also, as pointed out inthe ICR, IDA didnot participate during the
  presentation o f the investment project studies. IDA'Spresence inthese presentations
  could have mobilized greater private sector interest inthese studies. The I C R raises a
  point regardingthe inadequacy o f supervision resources. However, this assessment finds
  the supervision resources to have been adequate, given that 172 staff weeks were spent
  over the five-year implementation period and on average two missions were fielded per
  year. Possibilities o f clustering with other supervision activities also existed. This
  assessment therefore rates the Bank'sperformance during the supervision as
  unsatisfactoy. Theassessment rates Bank's overallperformance as unsatisfactory.

                                              12


 BorrowerPerformance

 2.38       Preparation. SOCAR,particularly the staffthat later formed the core team of
 the PIU, assistedinpreparation ofthe project intheir areas of expertise. The
 government's only role involved the petroleumlegislation. The government intended(at
the time o fprojectpreparation) to implementthis component, considering its preparatory
 action inthis regardand its covenanted commitment under the Credit Agreement.
Accordingly, the implementing agency 's and the borrower 'sperformance during the
preparation of theproject were satisfactory.

2.39        Implementation.A good feature ofthe PIUarrangement was its location in
the Foreign InvestmentDepartment (FID). Enhancing FID's operational capacity to
facilitate private investors was the focal point o fthe project's key objective. The level o f
 staff andresources available to PIUwas adequate. However, the PlUdidnot have
sufficient authority-including   financial authoritybut particularly authority to address
keypolicy actions-to     ensure the successful outcome o f the project. For many o f its key
decisions, the PIUhad to rely on other departments o f SOCAR, which were focusing on
exploration and development o f the new offshore fields. SOCAR shouldhave continued
with full efforts to achieve the objectives ofthe project, particularly since SOCARwas
representingthe government virtually inall aspects. Or, SOCAR, having the direct
knowledge of the sector affairs, should have requested to restructure or sharpen the focus
o f the project. SOCAR 's performance in support ofproject implementation was modest.

2.40        Withregard to theborrower's performance, the government decided to cancel
the component related to the development andimplementationo fpetroleumlegislation.
The government has statedthat it decided to use individual ProductionSharing
Agreements (PSAs) instead, but absent a coherent legal framework and associated
implementing rules and regulation (including several variations o f model PSA contracts),
the government did not benefit from an integrated approach to put inplace a sound and
consistent legal framework. With regard to reform, despiteseveral promises o freform
andplans to improve regulations andpolicy formulations, no actionwere taken by the
government. Therefore, theperformance of the borrower in support ofproject
implementation is negligible. As a result, the borrower's overallperformance during
implementation is unsatisfactory.

2.41       With respect to the overallperformance o f boththe implementingagency and
the borrower duringlendingand implementation, this assessment rates the overall
performance as unsatisfactory. However, this ratingneeds to take into account several
factors that would result ina "moderately unsatisfactory" performance by the borrower,
hadthere been such a rating. First, the government neededto respond rapidly to
opportunities to increase hydrocarbon production, and inthis context the new offshore
fields were the best candidates for this objective. Second, the project's original design
became non-responsive to the borrower's/SOCAR's operational needs in 1996/1997, but
the Bank didnot act to restructure the project. Third, SOCAR and the government were
not familiar with the Bank's lendingoperations.

                                       13


3.  Lessons Learned

3.1   The main lessons from this evaluation are as follows:

     0 Under country and sector conditions like those inAzerbaijan, the design o f
       the project should have been simpler, to include only a few highimpact
       components and substantial Bank flexibility (including "real time"
       interventions by the Bank) inresponse to the borrower's needs. With a more
       flexible stance, the Bank could have better served the client inthe areas
       where the original objectives were being overtakenby the rapidly unfolding
       events inthe country and the sector, such as for example the Bank
       contributing to SOCAR's negotiations with foreign investors for PSAs and
       export pipeline.

     0 The need to include major legislative action as a policy condition needs to be
       carefully considered based on borrower ownership and capacity.


     0 The Bank needs to ensure that the borrower has inplace the necessary
       arrangements and commitments to ensure that P W s are given adequate
       authority (including financial authority) to deal with day-to-day
       implementation issues.


                                                      15                                     Annex A


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT (CREDIT 2708-AZ)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                                    Appraisal           Actual        Actual as % of
                                                    estimate                         appraisal estimate
Original commitment                                    21                9.5                45
Total cancellation                                                       11.5
Total project cost                                    22.86              10.37               45




CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                                  FY95      FY96       FY97        FY98       FY99   w o o       FYOI
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          0         1.5        6.7         14.6      19.2   20.8         20.8
Actual (US$M)                      0         0.3        2.1         4.1       7.5     9.5          9.6
Actual as % of appraisal           0         20         31          28         39     46           46
Date of final disbursement: 9/8/2000




ProjectDates
                                                           Original                   Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                                        03/22/1994
Board approval                                                                       04/20/1995
Signing                                                                              05/23/1995
Effectiveness                                             08/23/1995                 11/22/1995
Closing date                                              11/30/1999                 11/30/2000




StaffInputs(staffweeh)
                                                            ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                      N" Staff weeks                                   uss~ooo)
IdentiRcation/Preparation                        82.40                              260
AppraisallNegotiation                            36.80                              101
Supervision                                     171.59                              540
Total                                           290.79                              901

                                                    16                                    Annex A


Mission Data
                         Date      No. of       Specializations           Performance Rating
                      (monthlyear) persons       represented         Implementation    Development
                                                                       Progress           Objectives
identification1        0211993        8   Mission Leader
Preparation                               Division Chief
                                          Principal Petroleum Spec.
                                          Sr. Power Eng.
                                          Sr. Refining Sp.
                                          Energy Economist
                                          Petroleum Engineer
                                          Finance Systems
                                          Consultant
identification/        0911993        1   Mission Leader
Preparation
Identification1        0111994        3   Mission Leader
Preparation                               Sr. Gas Engineer
                                          OperationsAsst.
Identification1         041199        1   Mission Leader
Preparation
AppraisallNegotiations 0517994       10   Mission Leader
                                          Principal Energy Spec.
                                          Principal Petroleum Spec.
                                          Sr. Power Specialist
                                          Gas Specialist
                                          Legal Counsel
                                          OperationsAssistant
                                          Consultant Petroleum
                                          Engineer-Offshore
                                          ImplementationConsultant
                                          Consultant Procurement
                                          Specialist
Supervision            0511995        1   Task Manager                    S                  S
Supervision            0211996        6   Task Manager,                   S                  S
                                          Gas Specialist
                                          Petroleum Specialist
                                          Lawyer
                                          TraininglComputerization
                                          Specialist
                                          Implementation Specialist
                                          Annual Update: No mission                          S
Supervision            06/1996        2   Task Manager
                                          Energy Specialist
Supervision            1011996        1   Task Manager                                       S
Supervision            02/1997        5   Task Manager                                       S
                                          Economist
                                          Petroleum Engineer
                                          Reservoir Engineer
                                          Financial Analyst
Supervision            1011997       3    Task Manager                                       S
                                          Petroleum Engineer
                                          Energy Economist

Supervision            0611998       3    Task Team Leader                S                  S
                                          Petroleum Engineer
                                          Consultant
Supervision            09/1998       1    Team Leader                     S                  s
Supervision            0211999       2    Team Leader, Consultant         S                  S
Supervision            06/1999       3    Team Leader                     S                  S
                                          Consultant
                                          Operations Officer (No
                                          PSR prepared following
                                          mission)

                                                      17                                     Annex A


                            Date     No. of       Specializations           PerforriianceRating
                        (month/year) persons       represented        Implementation      Development
                                                                         Progress           Objectives
 Supervision              1011999       3   Mission Leader                    S                 S
                                            Operations Officer
                                            Training Consultant
 Supervision              0412000       3   Mission Leader                    S                 S
                                            Financial1Management
                                            Specialist
                                            Operations Officer
 ICR                      10/2000       1   Task Team Leader
 ICR                      02/2001       1   Task Team Leader




 Other ProjectData
 Borrower/Executing Agency:
 FOLLOW-ON  OPERATIONS
 Operation                                             Credit no.     Amount             Board date
                                                                    (US$ million)
~Gas System Rehabilitation Project                   Credit 29230     US$20.2            09/19/1996


                                                   19



'Annex B. ProjectComponents, Allocated Costs and Actual
 Disbursements

          Components                                 Amount           Amount Disbursed
                                                     Originally
                                                     Allocated

 I) Support for ForeignInvestmentinPetroleumExplorationand Promotion
          Financialand ContractualAdvice
          GuneshliField                              US$2.100 million None disbursed
          Other Fields                               US$l.lo0 million None disbursed
          ExportPipeline                             US$O.900 million None disbursed
          Other Infrastructure                       US$0.600 million None disbursed

          LegalAdvice for PetroleumProjects
          Development
          Project Developmentand Crude OilPipeline   US$O.810million  None disbursed
          CaspianSea Boundaries                      US$0.450 million US$0.300 disbursed

          Technical and CostingAdvice
          GuneshliField                              US$6.500 million US$0.250 milliondisbursed
          Other Fields                               US$l.900 million None disbursed

         Advisory Service onPetroleumLicenses and    None             None disbursed
          ExplorationPromotion

 11) InstitutionalStrengthening-AdvisoryServices
     a) PetroleumLegislation                         US$0.450 million None disbursed
     b) MIS,PC andCommunication                      US$0.700 million US$0.300 million disbursed
     c) Training for SOCAR Staff                     US$0.450 million US$0.250 milliondisbursed

 111) PetroleumProjectInvestment Studies
     a)  Oil Rocks/OldOffshore OilfieldsRehab        US$0.850 million US$1.500 million disbursed
     b) Old Onshore OilfieldsRehab                   US$0.850 million US$O.800 million disbursed
     c)  Gas ProcessingFacilitiesReconstruction      US$0.750 million US$0.650 million disbursed
     d) EarlyOil ExportPipeline                      US$O.900million  None disbursed

   IV) ProjectImplementation                         US$0.750 million US$1.148 milliondisbursed

    V) Unidentified                                  US$l.OOOmillion

 Total                                               US$21.060million US$5.150 milliondisbursed

 AdditionalActivities Not Part of the OriginalScope:
 1)Reservoir EngineeringCenter                       None             US$2.800 milliondisbursed
 2)Audit of SOCAR                                    None             US$1.265 milliondisbursed
 3) EnvironmentalStudy                               None             US$0.200 million disbursed

 Total Base Cost and Disbursed                       US$21,06Omillion US$9.463 milliondisbursed
 Contingencies                                       US$1.100 million
 RefinancingPPF                                      US$0.700 million
 Total ProjectCost                                   US$22.860million


