CREDIT NUMBER 2708 AZ
Project Agreement
(Petroleum Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OIL COMPANY OF AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Dated                       , 1995


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    -0, 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCtATION (the Association) and STATE
OIL COMPANY OF AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC (SOCAR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Azerbaijan Republic (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million   three   hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR14,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SOCAR agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SOCAR, the equivalent of twenty million two
hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($20,225,000) of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be relent to SOCAR on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SOCAR, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SOCAR declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B.2 and C of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, petroleum industry and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Parts A, B.2 and C of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
Parts A, B.2 and C of the Project and to .be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. (a) SOCAR shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Parts A, B.2 and C of the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, SOCAR shall:
(i)     prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable
to  the   Association,  and  furnish   to  the
Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Association
and SOCAR, a plan for the future operation of
the Project;
(ii)     afford the Association a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with SOCAR on said plan; and
(iii)     thereafter, carry  out  said  plan  with   due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate practices, taking into account the
Association's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. SOCAR shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, SOCAR shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SOCAR shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A, B.2 and C of the project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   SOCAR shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A, B.2 and C of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SOCAR of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. SOCAR shall:
(a)  not later than September 30, 1995, submit to the
Association an interim report on the progress achieved in carrying
out Parts A, B.2 and C of the Project;
(b)  by May 31, 1997, undertake jointly with the Association
a mid-term review of the Project;


﻿-3-
(c)   furnish to the Association for approval, the content of
each training program to be carried out under the Project as well as
the schedule for the implementation of such programs and the
criteria for the selection of trainees before commencement of any
such training program;
(d)  maintain a PIU with staff, resources and functions
acceptable to the Association to coordinate and supervise the
carrying out of the Project and the procurement of goods and
services thereunder and ensure that the PIU staff shall be assisted
by consultants, acceptable to the Association, advising on the
following matters: procurement, disbursements, training and general
project coordination and supervision;
(e)   (i)   carry out all studies included in the Project
under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, which, when applicable, shall
include specific programs or plans of action to
meet the objectives of the Project;
(ii)   promptly after the completion of each study,
furnish to the Association a copy of its
findings and recommendations including such
programs or plans of action; and
(iii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity
to comment on findings, recommendations and
programs or plans of action; and
(f)   take into account the findings and recommendations of
the studies included under the Project in its future investment
plans and policies in the petroleum and gas sectors.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SOCAR
Section 3.01. SOCAR shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
petroleum industry and engineering practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SOCAR shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
petroleum industry practices.
Section 3.03. SOCAR shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against: such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SOCAR shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B.2 and C of the Project of the
departments or agencies of SOCAR responsible for carrying out
Parts A, B.2 and C of the Project.
(b)   SOCAR shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish    to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SOCAR thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Association shall promptly notify SOCAR
thereof.
Section 5.03. All provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For SOCAR:
Neft9iler Pr. 73
Baku 370004
Azerbaijan Republic
Telex:
142114 ROMB
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SOCAR, or by SOCAR on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the President of SOCAR or such other person or persons as the
President of SOCAR shall designate in writing, and SOCAR shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
STATE OIL COMPANY OF AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist SOCAR in carrying out the Project, SOCAR
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, SOCAR shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Association, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Association, SOCAR shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


