-V           -> f C;' -7-
Documst of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqwt No P-6161-AR
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONL BANK FOR RECON0SC     AD ADE
TO THE
EXCTVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROSED SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
IN THE AMIINT OF US$500 MILLION
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FR A
CAPItAL MARKEZ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BRUARY 4j 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6161 AR
Type: HOP
This doemot has a resticted dilbibntio Mad may be nsed by epiet only In th pouace o f
tdeir offical duties. Its cone  may lWt othewis be dilosed widxtt Wold Bank *utworiztko.



CRECY EQMl)PM
Crreny Unit = Peso
US$1.0 = Peso $1.0
GLOSSAR-Y OF ABRDEIAIO_N_S
BANAf)E               Banco Nacional de Desarrollo              National Development Bank
BCRA                  Banco Central de la Repliblica Argendna   Cental Bank of Argentina
BICE                  Banco de Inversi6n y Comerio Exterior     Investen  and Trade Bank
BF                    pacilidad de Respaldo Fancieo             Backstop Facility
BHN                   Banco Hipoario Nacional                   National Mortgage Bank
BNA                   Banco de a Naci6n Argentina               Bank of the Argentia Nation
BPBA                  Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires     Bank of the Province of Buenos Aires
DON                   Bonos con Respaldo del Fondo              Bonds under Backstop Commitments
BONEX                 Bonos Extemos.                            External Bonds
CNAS                  Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguros         Nationa Insurance and Savings Bank
CMTAL                 Pr6stamo de Asistencia Tecnica al         Capital Market Technical Assistance
Darrllo del Mercado de Capitales         LOa
CNV                   Comisi6n Nacional de Valores              National Securities Commission
CPI                   Indice de Precios al Consmidor            Consumer Price Index
FON                   Bonos Adquiridos por el Fonldo            Bonds purchased by Backstop Fund
FI                    Instituci6n Financiera                    Financial Insttuton
PSAL                  Pr6stamo Sectorial Financiero             Financial Sector Adjustmen Loan
GDP                   Producto Interno Bruto                    Gross Domestic Product
INDER                 Insdwo Nacional de Reaseguro              National Reinsramce Instite
LFE                   Ley de Entidades Financieras              Law of Financial Eniies
ON                    Obligacin Negociable                     Negotiable Obligation
OTC                   Mercado Exrabursail                       Over-the-Counter Market
PAYG                  Pago por Sislema de Reparto               Pay-as-you-go
PB                    Banco Participante                        Participating Bank
PE                     1mpresa PNblica                          Public Enterprise
SCL                   Pro en Moneda Unica                       Single Currency Loan
TEL                   Pr6stamo a Tennino Elegible               Term Eligible Loan



IOL OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENIN
CAPfAL ACARIGB DEVELODPNMEN PIIET
L4*9 and  Prec &M_
Borrwer:               Argentite Republic.
Bugdwg cvm:            The Fund, an independent corporation to be
esablished by the Government. The fancial
manager of the Fund would be an inernational
financial instidon witfi a proven sucessfu
record. The  o    de Inr        Comercio
Exteror (BICE), a Government-owned second-tier
bank, would perform adm=stratve and oversight
nctions.
endidaries.            Prime-rated commercial bank, medium and smal
private enterprises in all sectors, and buyers of
new commercial or residential buidings.
US$500 million.
Terms            US dollar, single-currency loan, repayable over 15
years at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based vaiable
interest rate for US dollar, single-cur y loans.
Grace period: 7 years.
QjleIiing              The Argntine Republic would onlend the proceeds
of the Bank loan to the Fund. The Fund would
implement a Backstop Facilty (BF) that would
offer prime-rated banks the option to sell to the
Fund medim-term US doll-denominated bonds
issued to roil over prior dollarn ed bonds
that banks had issued to support thir longer term
loans for productive purposes.
Otr i:                 A companion Capital Marlkt Development
Technical Assistance Loan (CMTAL) would
provide complementary support (see  to n
below) in the amount of US$8.5 million
equivalent. IDB has approved a credit line in the
amount of US$300 million for productive
purposes, that will be cofinanced by the Export-
Import Bank of Japan in an equivalent amount.
This document has a resctted distribution and may be wed by recipients nlb in th e
of their oficil du#'s. Its contents may not othorwis be disclosed without Wold  udto on.



-}i-
QkIectIi":            The proposed operation aims to accelerate capital
market development to help Argentina meet
growing investment demand.
Deption:              The operation includes the Backstop Facility (see
Qhndldng), and an agreed policy and institutional
development progrm. The Backstop Facilit
would support long-term lending for productive
purposes, by ensuing liquidity to banks in the
event of bond market disruptions. An agreed
policy and institutional develoment rom,
including macroeconomic stability, freely
determined interest rates, the removal of exitig
interst rate subsidies, and stre-gthened capital
market regulation, supervision and enforcement,
would also help increase market conidence.
Progress i the agreed policy and istitutional
development progrm would be reviewed during
two paLses in commitments, to be implemented
after 30 percent and 60 percent of the loan has
been committed or after 18 and 36 months of
effectiveness, whichever comes first. The
accompanying CMTAL would help finance
inprovements in capital market supervision and
regulation; training of commercial banks' staff in
project financing; and implementation and
operation of the new, reformed pension system.
The main benefit of the project would be
development of the capital market, includig
increased availability of long term financing for
private sector investment, longer bond maturities,
development of rating agencies, increased liquidity
of the bond market, and improved quality of
commercial banks.
RiLsks:               The main risks are resumption of sustained
macroeconomic instability, including further strain
on the banking system; extended government
interventions to lower interest rates; weak progress
in bank supervision; weak demand for the
Backstop Facility; and non-development of BICE.
Estimated Coht:       The total amount of bank bond issues that the
Backstop Facility would support over the life of



-iii-
the Bank loan depends on the maturities of the
backstopped bonds and the percentage of backstop
commitments exercised by banks. The longer the
maurities and the higher the percetage of total
bonds sold to the Fund, the lower the amount of
bond issues that the Fund would be able to
support.
l sing Pian:          Not applicable. Financing of bond purchases
would mateialize only in the event of a possible
financial disruption or market developments that
undermined a PB's ability to rollover its bonds at a
rate below the backstop price.
lie of Return:        Not Applicable.
Not Applicable.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AN) DEVELOPNT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$500 MILLIOk
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT OPERATION
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Argentine Republic in the amount of US$500 milion to help finance a
project for the dev'~lopment of the capital market in &rgentina. The loan would be a Single
Currency Loan in dollars at the LIBOR rate, with a maturity of 13 years, including seven years
of grace.
Part I: COUNTRY ASSISTANCE ST1RATEGY
A. Historidal lPersec0tve and Recent Eoonmic Peormance
2.    By the early part of this century, Argentina had become one of'the more develdped
counries in the world. Its per capita icome, inftrtr and institutions rivalled those of
many European and North American countries; its vast fertile pampas and migrt-based work
force held the promise of increasing prosperity. However, since the Great Depression, reliance
on increasingly statist and inward-looking growth stategies gradually resulted in masive public
sector deficits, accelerating inflaton, and economic stagnation. Pervasive growth of the state
eventally brought public expenditures to over 50 percent of GDP. Although industrial
promotion programs were initially popular among the growing pool of urban workers, they
ultimately led to an onerous taxation of agriculture, Argentina's prmne source of wealth, and
contributed to major misallocation of resources. The debt crisis of the early 1980s led the
Government to resort increasingly to money creation to shoulder its mushrooming financial
responsibiliies. To avoid a growing inflation tax, Argenies withdrew their resorces from the
financial system, saving and investing abroad at record levels. Economic stagnation ensued.
By the end of the 1980s, labor productivity had fallen, social services and basic infrastructure
deteriorated, and poverty had become a serious and growmg problem.
3.    When the Menem Administration took office in July 1989, Argentina was gripped by
recession and monthly inflation of up to 200 percent. To eliminate the fiscal deficits that were
fueling the inflationary spiral, the new Government initiated profound structral reforms that
were remarkable both for their scope and the speed with which they were implemented. Over
the following 2-3 years, the public admistation was stramlined by reducing the total number
of federal employees by over 103,000 (about 15 percent of total), and transferring another
284,000 positions (40 percent of total) to the provinces; legislation suspending costly subsidies



2
was enacted; and nearly all public enerprises at the natuonal level were privatized. The base
of the value added tax was expanded and inefficient taxes on exports and fmancial inediaton
were removed; tax administation was modernized. To stengthen incentives for private
investment, trade liberalization and deregulation of market for goods and services were
accelerated. Primary responsibility for future price stabilt  was shifted to the monetary
authority. At end-1989, the Central BWnk's quasi-fiscal deficit was eliminated through the forced
conversion of short-term, high-interest deposits into long-term dollar bonds. The April 1991
Convertibility LaW fixed the exchange rate at the equivalent of one peso to the U.S. dollar,
formally deindexed contracts, facilitated a dual currency system, and required the monetary base
to be fully backed by intemational reserves.
Receut Economic Developments
4.    The curmnt macroeconomic program has brought to Argentina price stability and
economic growth unknown for several decades. Following growth rates of 8.9 and 8.7 percent
in 1991 and 1992, respectively, GDP is esfimated to have grown at about 6 percent in 1993.
Stability and decining interest rates have cnntibuted to the recovery of investme, albeit from
a low base. Inflation has decelerated from a monthly 200 percent in July 1989, to an anmal rate
of 7.5 percent in 1993. The Argentine peso has appreciated by about 30 percent since the
begining of the C^avertibility Law regime, but adjusting for tax riductions, efficiency gins
and productivity improvements Jp the economy, losses to expi competitiveness may be less
than half that
.5.    Fical performance at the-level of the
national  governmnt  continued  being                   _         d
satisfactory into the third year of the
adjustment program.   EFF targets were     40 0
exceeded in 1992 and privatizations pusbed
the primary surplus to .2.2 percent of GDP;  .0
performance under the EFF agreement has
remained broadly satisfactory in the first
three quarters of 1993.   However, the
allocative efficiency of provincial finances  E w
remains poor; addressing this isspe is now  -to
one of the national Government's top .              1    10  180  13  1803
priorities. In August 1993 a new two-year.          - -l
revenue sharing agreement was announced, as    r__ _ __-_ _
a fis  step  towards stengthening  the
adjus,tment process at the provincial level. Finally, in September 1993 social Lewrity reform
was approved, introducing an optional capitalized private pension system.
6.    The external debt agreement with, commercial creditors, consummated in April 1993,
ended the accumulatiofi of arrears, regularized existing arrears, reduced interest obligations from
a projected US$2-3 billion to US$1.4-1.6 billion in the initial years, and wiUl sharply limit
international interest obligations if international rates rebound from their present low levels.
Debt-equity conversions in 1990-92 reduced debt by about US$14 billion. The successful
privatization of the state-owned oil company (YPF) in July 1993 also enabled the Government
..           .~~~~~~~'



3
to cancel domestic obligations to pensioners (about US$2.7 billion) and to oil producing
provinces (about US$1.2 billion).
7.    Continued  capital  inflows  have
sustained the growth in aggregate demand.                  LMOf .. R
Gross intervational reserves at mid-December  ,7
stood at US$15.4 billion, a US$2.9 billion net
increase since the end of 1992. With the
increase in reserves, and the reduction in O 
bank reserve requirements earlier in the year,
monetay aggregates have been expanding at
a fast pace. Bank credit has grown at an
even faster rate, reflecting the sub-par, but
fast ioving, monettionof the economy.   ..          E E
Interest rates on peso deposits declined to 8.9
percent by end-1993 (Amex E). Interest rate  |*W*_"           za,of       St]
sreads, although also declining, remained
high, reaching 12 percent, indicative of the
segmentation and contnued shallowness of the finanil systm.
8.   In the first nine months of 1993, the trade deficit reached US$1.9 billion, about 20
percent higher than one year earlier. However, the rate of increase in imports decelerated vis-a-
vis the prvious two years, and exports grew
at 6.3 percent, after a slight decline in 1992.
Low  international  interest  rates  have
contributed to improvement in net factor
-wO    I,^ / \        200           .    payments. The current account deficit this
year is rnning below last year's rat, at
low                           Te bono ,    . .approximately  3.3  percet  of  GDP.
,eoo    1  1,   l     ~ --at,*w    Fina g this deficit has not been difficult,
° -^>1                L    ..*.i   in light of Argentina's impved access to
interuation&I financial markets.
..~ O9.    Concern about alleged unfair trade
I     hI       h | § § § § i i g g §practices has contributed  to  temporary
.-- .  .  , . ,,                    increases in trade bafriers over the past year.
These included a July 1993 reintroduction of
limited quantitative restrictions on paper imorts for one year, and taiff surcharges on textiles,
sport shoes, sweets, and tariff-quotas on refigerators. The majority of these measures have
been aimed at Brazil and are generally consistent with remedies afforded under the MERCOSUR
agreement (para. II). Continuation or expansion of such meas   could undermine the
tranparency of the trade regime, although the Government has repeatedly emphasized its firm
commi:ment to the trade liberalization process initiated in 1988.



4
B. External Enironment
10.  Three interlated aspects of the external environment affect Argentina's macroeconomic
prospects: (i) the growth of the world economy; (ii) developments under international and
regional trade agreements, and Argentina's terms of trade; and (iii) the cost of international
capital. Following the stagnation of 1991-93, world economic growth is expected to recover
at the moderate pace of 2.5 percent in 1994, and average 3 percent for the 1993-2002 period
(IEC projections, Fall 1993). Consequently, the demand for Argentina's exports should
stngthen,¢ facilitating the fmaning of sustainable economic growth.
11.  Wit repect to intenational and regional trade agreements, prospects for higher
global economic growth have been strengthened with the conclusion of the Umguay round of
GAIT negotiations. As a major agricultural exporter, Argentina should achieve some moderate
benefits from the inclusion of agriculbtual tade irn the GATT, particulaly from the grad
reduct-4 of European aind North American grain export subsidies. Argentina's efforts to
establish a regional common market with Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay-the MERCOSUR
area-would also provide an impetus for growth, althdugh varying degrs of macroeconomic
stability among members and difficulties in harmonizing tax and regulatory polcies m the
short-ru, are complicaing the adoption )f a common extal uariff. Since-Argentina's trade
in MERCOSUR is primarily with Brazil, its best prospects in the region are closely tied to the
stabilization of the Brazilian economy and remption of sustaimble economic growth. Finally,
the recent al)roval of NAPTA by Canada, Mexico and the U.S. also creates new challenges and
opportunities. The overall short-term tade diversion impact is likely to be smal because only
12.5 percent of Argerdne -exports go to NAFTA countries. Over the longer-term, the benefits
that Argentina might enjoy from evenatual accession to NAFrA relate more to improved
investment prospects and the likelihood that membership in NAFTA could stengten incentives
to continue the pursit of stable domestic economic policies.
12.   Argent's term-of-trade are near their lowest level m this ceary, having declined
by approximately 30 percent since 1970. Bank commodity price forecasts suggest that e price
index of Argentna's main exports is expected to improve through the year 2002 at a slightly
faser rate than the increase in its import price index (32.7% vs. 28.1%). This is because the
prices of cereals, other agriculturaigoods and livestock, which weigh heavily in exports, are
expected to have reached a trough and outerform dte price of manu s, which weigh
heavily in imports. Overall terms-of-trade are thus expected to improve gradually over the
forecast period, by 3.6 percent.
13.  Slow global economic growth, although contributing to the softening of Argentina's
export prices, has had the beneficial impact of sharply reducing the cost of it
capita. The UIBOR in 1993 was 3.4 percent, less than half the 8.4 percent rate prevailing in
1990. LIow international interest rates, compounding the hiproved domestic economic policy
environment, contributed to significant capital inflows to Argentina. . At the same time,
Argentina's rapidly improved access to the -iternational capital markets has been impressive.
Following the consmmation of the debt reduction agrement earlier in the year (para. 6), terms
have improved rapidly. Repeated bond issues abroad, by both the state and private corporations,
have been madewith expanding maturities at declining spreads.



14.   Total public and private foreign debt in 1993 is estimated at 29.8 percent of GDP.
Wbile this ratio is not particularly high, the narrow base of Argentine exports brings foreign
debt service to 46 percent of goods and services exports, and makes Argentina quite susceptible
to international interest rate gyrations. Private debt service requirements, however, may be
somewhat overestimated since at least some part of recent significant capital inflows is
repatriated Argendne capital -for which no accurate data are available-that would not have the
debt serviting charactristics of other forms of capial inflows. Each percentage point change
in international interest rates would produce approximately a US$830 million annual change in
interntional interest payments (average for the 1994-97 period), the equivalent of 4.1 percent
of the period's average estimated exports of goods and services, or S.5 percent of interational
reserves. While higher than anticipated international interest rates are a risk, they are likelier
in the near future to be associated with stronger world economic growth and trade. The DDSR
agreement wbich limits interest rate increass on a substantial (UTS$13.6 billion) portion of
Argentina's exenal debt, softens the direct impact of higher inational interest rates. The
indiect impact of higher internationa interest rates on capital inflows r- ' be mitigated through
the automatic adjustment features of the Convertibility Plan, and by d,mestic economic policies.
C.                                     .               .
15.   President Menem has made it a national goal to return Argentina to the ranks of the
world's more developed economies by the earl; 21st ceury. He recognized at the start of his
administration tt this required a fumdamental redrawing of the boundares between the public
and ptivate sectors, elimination of the chronic imbalances within the public sector to end
inflation, and acceleration of Argentina's intation into the world economy. The first years
of the Menem adminisation witnessed a massive reform of the federal public sector to lay the
basis for price stability, coupled with an ambitious privatization program. With the mainpolicy
actions now in place, the Government has charted an agenda with the following objectives:
*     the consolidation of stability mrough strict compliance with the Convertibility Law, the
preservation of fiscal effibrium, and the operation of a market economy with
deregulated and unrestricted competitive markets, and regulation by the state of
non-competitive markets;
*     the strengthening of economic growti through inceased levels of savings, investment and
exports, and an intensification of trade, fimancial and technological integration of the
Argentine economy into world markets; and
o     the achievement of higher levels, of employment and a more equitable distribution of
income, both at a personal and regional basis, through consolidation of economic stability
and growth, substantially increased public investment ink .Anan resource development and
social services, and measures to promote regional development.



6
Macioeconomic Prospects
16.   The Government's central macroeconomic objective is to achieve robust long-tenn
growth, with exandig employment and inflaton held to  tenatonal levels. The Atgentine
economy could grow at a medium-term rate of about 4-4.5 percent anmually, assmmg that
domestic inflation con.erges in 1994 to international inflation, private capital inflows provide
a smooth transition to a sustainable balance of payments, and efforts to expand the country's
export base are successful. Impoved competitiveness through economic restructuring, growing
investment and slowing domestic consumption would facilitate switching of resources from
nontaeables to tradeables.  Investment, already on the rise, will benefit from growing
confidence in the sustainabitity of the adjustment program. Deceleration in the growth of
domestic consumption will reflect both the slowdown in exogenous capital inflows associated
with the privatization program, and the atent of a new, and higher, permanent level of
income resulting from strudtural adjustment, which in the past three years favored consumption
over savings. Slower growth in the domestic market would shift more production towards
exports, aided by deregulation and other measures enhancing productivity in the tradeables
sector, and cnges in relative prices. The privat sector would be the leading expansionary
force; public investment would grow from its depressed levels, but be concentrated in fewer
activities within the now smaller public domAin.
17.   The savings perforance tht emerges fom the maro-consistey projections largely
reflects inreases in domestic private savings. Gross. natonal savin3s would increase from 13
percent of GDP in 1992 to 16.4 percent in the 1994-97 period. Public savings have led the
recovery of savings in the miitial phase of recovery, but private national savings should increase
from 1994 as condnued macroeconomic stabilit encourages residen to hold domestic financial
assets rater than foreign assets. Contbutions to the new capitalized pension funds are unlikely
to be offset one-to-one by reduced savings in otber intuments. In addition, the low savings
rates in the 1991-93 period accommodated a once-and-for-all adjustment of consumption to a
higher level of income.
18. The consolidated pubLic sector accounts are projected to be basically balanced during the
1994-97 period. This is consistent with macreconomic objectives and projected net financing,
on the assumption that the Government adheres to its present policy framework and the economy
experiences no unforeseen shocks. The overall 1.7 percent to GDP surplus anticipated for 1993
ib expected to decline in 1994-97 due to: (i) the substantial achievement of the privatization
program by end-1994; (ii) the fiscal costs of the transition to a capitalized pension system; and
(iii) higher capital expenditmes by both' federal and provincial governments. Moreover,
increasing transfers to the provinces, and the elimination of several distortionary taxes as well
as tariffs within MERCOSUR, are expected to reduce federal government revenues. In conrast,
provincial fimances are expected to improve progressively over the 1994-97 period, due both to
the new revenue sharing agreement (para. 5) and much needed civil service reforms that would
reduce or stabilize personnel expenditures.



-      7
Table 1: Argentlna - Key Macroeconomic Indcators
(Percent f GDP) 
1992  1993  Average   Average
(est.)  1994-97  1998-2002
NatiorAl Accounte
GDP Average Aunual Growth            8.7   6.0       4.0       4.7
Total Investment                    16.7  18.0      19.5       20.6
National Savings                    13.0  14.8      16.4       18.2
Foreign Savings                      3.7   3.3       3.2       2.4
PubBc Sector              ' 
Pdrmay SWuplus                       2.2   2.7       1.5        1.3
Iuerepayments                        1.6   1.0       1.0       0.9
Domatic                             0.3   0.1       0.1        0.3
Foreign                             1.3   0.9       0.9        0.6
Balance (- deficit)                  0.6   1.7       0.5       0.4
Bale of Paymets
Trade Rance                         (1.2)  (1.2)    (0.8)      0.2
Cuarrt Account Balance              (3.X)  (3.3)    (3.2)      (2.4)
Capital Accoumt                      5.4   4.6       3.4       2.6
Publi Sector                        (0.2)  (0.0)    (0.1)      0.0
Private Sector                      5.6   4.6       3,S        2.6
Liquid IMt. Reserves in months of imports    6.4   7.9  7.7    6.7
Memo:
GDP (US$ billion)                  228.8  2S7.6    309.0      421.4
a/ Udess ot ie stated, all figues for public finances and bahace of payments are net
bI Natn Adminisation.
e/ Includes quas-fiscalbalance of Cental Rank.
d Includes reserve fnancing of ThtF.
e/ Im-ports of goods and nofcor services. -      
19.    The adjustment process has progressively shited the needs of external fmncg from the
public to the private sector. Therefore, financing in the balance of payments will be mainly a
funtn of the desired savings-investmet in the private sector. ]mprwed internaional financing
of private mvetment, the renewed ability to roll-over maturing international obligains, and
growing foreign direct investment, should modeate the expected slowdown in    ceptional
privatization proceeds from  abroad oberved in the last th     years. Investment opportnies
created by the privatizaton program, and potential repatriation of earnings of foreign-held
private assets, will       contribute to the changing nature of capital inflows to Argentina.
20.    The World Bank and IIDB will increase their exposure in Argenia, but not substnlly
so after the mid-1990s. The IS's expoure will likely decline after the expiration of the EFF.
Foreign direct investme   should remain relatively stable in the 1994.97 period, with the share
deriving from privatizations declining significantly. Private short-term capital inflows, including
trade credits, would average about US$5.1 billion-about 1.7 percent of GDP-to finmc. Fie
projected current account deficit of 3.2 percent over the 1994-97 period. With consil .nt
macroeconomic policies, a stable internaional envroment, and the condnuous finaial
assistance  of multilatal organizations, Argentina's external financing               emen    for
sustainable growth are likely to be met.



8
Risks
21.   Several risks, both external and domestic, could alter Argentina's economic horizon.
On the external front, higher than expected international interest rates could slow down the
inflow of foreign capital, causing a rise in domestic interest rates and moderating economic
growth. While a moderate slowdown in capital inflows would not pose a serious threat, a
reversal in capital inflows could induce a sharp economic contraction, straining a still weak
fiancial system and public finances. Secondly, the pace of economic adjustment, and more
specifically expected increases in productivity, are crucial factors for the long-term- success of
the current economic program. Future financing needs have to be met in large measure through
growing exports. The narrowness of Argentina's export base makes this challenge a}l the
greater. Gains in productivity, therefore, are a prerequisite for improving the competitiveness
of Argentine exports, in the context of a fixed exchange rate regime. Should productivity gains,
lower domestic taxes, and factor market improvements fail to raise exports sufficiently, then
improved longer-term economic growth prospects may require an effective realignment of prices
between tradeables and non-tradeables. That in itself would, however, carry its own inflationary
risks, in the context of a highly dolarized economy. Finally, unforeseen political developments
could tbreaten sustainabilty of the current fiscal equilibrium. In such an event, high capital
mobility could produce a sharp decline in international reserves, severely testng the
convertibility program, as the temptation to engage in a more expansionary monetary policy
would be stong. However, memories of the 1989-90 hyperinflation and economic chaos of the
preceding years also make it unlikely that populist policies would undermne the hard-won gains
in fiscal discipline. Impressive mid-term election results in October 1993. even in areas of
traditional opposition to the ruling party, suggest a widespread acceptance of the basic tenets of
the Government's economic program, which bodes well for its future sustainability.
D. The Bank's Country AAec Ste
Stte
22.   The Bank has been, and will remain, a strong supporter of the ambitious Argentine
reform program. Consistent with last year's CAS, our strategy focuses on: (i) efforts to
consolidate macroeconomic reforms; (ii) strengthening greatly weakened public institutons, with
increasing attention to those responsible for social service delivery; (iii) rebuilding Argentina's
greatly deteriorated infrastructure base; and (iv) fostering private sector development, in
particular, fiancial intermdiation and capital market development.
23.   Consolidatng Economic Reform. Although the speed of fiscal, monetary and public
enterprise reforms has been impressive, the adjustment process requie contued very close
attention to the fiscal fundamentals. In addition, the Government needs to deal with pending
issues of extending the adjustment process from the national to the provincial level, and of
improving the overall compettiveness of the Argentine economy. Besides our normal
macroeconomic work program and related dialogue with economic authorities, a proposed final
Bank adjustment operation would support fiscal reform efforts at the provincial level; ESW
would address labor market policy and related compeWtveness issues; and a technical assistance
loan would support the implementation of social security reform.



9
24.   Provincial governments account for almost 40 percent of total public expenditure and
are now responsible for many core public services. Tnroughout the 1980s, provincial deficits
contributed to the chronic instability of the Argentine public sector because of perverse
incentives to spend, financed by discretionary grants from the federal government and
rediscounts from the Central Bank. Since 1991, the recovery of national tax collection has
increased the revenue shared with the provinces, while discrttiona  transfers have been largely
eliminated, and fianing from provincial banks has been cut. Nevertheless, local revenue
collections have lagged, and the number of employees and wages and pensions have been
increasing at a fast pace. With additional responsibilities, particularly in the provision of social
services, transferred to the provinces, most of them have accumulated arrears with suppliers and
employees. Overall capital outlays have decreased by about 50 percent since the early eighties,
resulting in a severe deterioration in public infrastrucure. The solutions lie, as they did at the
national level over the past few years, both in reforming provincial public finances to ;reate the
fiscal space to address essential social and infrastructure needs, and in upgrading institutional
capacities to manage priority development activities. An ongoing Povincial Development Loan
is improving financial planning and inwestment programming in the provinces, and provides
support for some infrastructure investments. Most future Bank sector projects will also include
bpo t instituidonal development components to assist the provinces in modermizing their
administtive apparatus (paras. 27-32). Finally, a proposed Provincial Adjustment Loan would
support structh  reforns in provincial public fmances, reductions in staffing, deregulation, and
privatization of provincial enterprises and banks.
25.   Enhanci  the competitiveness of the Argee economy is being pursued, inter alia,
through labor market reforms and implementation of a recently approved reform of the national
social security system. Other efforts include reform of the health financing system and
reductions in inefficient taxes-all designed to reduce production costs and improve incentives
for new productive investment. With regard to labor market issues, Argentine law accords
industry-specific collective bargaining at the national level the dominant role in determining
wages and work conditions. The Ministry of Labor (MoL) may arbitrate and evenally impose
a settlement, but must enforce agreements industry-wide, an arrangement which has severely
limited aggregate and relative wage flexibility, mobility, labor demand and total factor
productivity. The Government is attempting reform of labor legislation, which would enhance
relative wage flexibility by allowing firm-level agremnts, improve the flexibility of work
organization through less restrictive work-time rules and clear expiration dates for all collective
agreements, and reduce turnover costs. The wedge between labor costs and the take-home pay
of workers is also being reduced by reductions in payroll taxes. Bank ESW is assessing labor
market and related competitiveness issues in more detail, through a review of relevant
international experiences, as an input to Government analytical efforts in this area.
26.   Finally, a major reform of the national social security system will establish a combination
of public schemes on a pay-as-you-go basis with private or public pension funds in an integrated
system of mandatory pension insurance. The new system is expected to lower evasion by
linking expected benefits to contributions. Further measures to reduce the dependency ratio
include a gradual increase in the retirement age by 5 years, an increase in the minimum years
of contributions to 30, and stricter requirements for disability claims. Pension fund savings are
expected to accumulate at a rate of about. 1.4 percent of GDP annually. Congress will also
consider supplemental legislation which wou' d remove certain problematic provisions of the



10
recent reform law, including a guarantee of returs in dollars in the pension fund of Banco de
la Nacion. The Government is targeting July 1, 1994 to begin implementation of the new
system, but must first issue detailed regulations and establish an effective superintendency for
the pension fund management insitutions. The proposed Capital Market Development Technical
Assistance Project wifl assist this process.
27.   Sfrengthening of Public Instions.  After years of neglect and politicization,
Argendna's pubiic institutions remain weak. The social services have been particularly affected.
For example, service delivery capacity in the health sector is seriously eroded. Per capita
outlays on health are well above those of odter middle income countries in the region, yet
maternal and infant mortality rates and mlutition remain unacceptably high, and many chronic
diseases are still prevalent. The provinces, which now bear the major responsibility for health
service delivery, require assistance in the organization and management of services-particularly
of public hospitals. Improvements in sector financing are also necessarily linked to the reform
of the mandatory, and in many cases virtually bankrupt, health insurance institutions controlled
by the labor unions.
28. In a first stage, Bank assistance for the health sector is targeting vulnerable groups in the
urban poverty belts and the underdeveloped northern provinces. The new ongoing Maternal and
Child Health and Nut,ition Project will help selected provinces provide better services to
mothers and young children, and a follow-up operation will provide similar support to another
group of provinces. In a second stage, a more comprehensive Provinci Health Project wil
address wider sector efficiency issues involving health fiancing reform, the definition of a basic
package of health services and the design of a health insurance system for public sector
benefic.aries, the establishment of public hospitals as independent trust, the development of
hospitai accreditation systems, and the development of new hospital reimbursement systems.
29.   The quality of public education in Argentina has deteriorated due both to a decline in
real public spending and weak sector management. The Federal Education Law of 1993
devolved the administrative responsibility for delivering secondary educational services to the
provinces, which were already responsible for pre-school and primary education. The Bank is
preparing a proposed Secondar, Education Project to support decentralization of the system in
seven provinces and strengthen their capacity to deliver cost efficient education. A follow-up
loan would assist an additional set of provinces. The IDB is supporting primary education. At
the level of higher educaton, state funding of the national universities has declined in real terms
while enrollments have mushroomed, leading to very low efficiency (the annmal number of
graduates is only 4 percent of total enrollment), undermining Argentina's productivity and
international competitiveness. The authorities have proposed a major higher education reform,
including increased financial autonomy of universities, the introduction of tuition for public
universities, accreditation of new private institutions of higher learning, and the establishment
of a more transparent mechanism for allocating resources to universities. The Bank has initiated
a Higher Fx!ativn Sector Study and the preparation of a proposed Higher Education Reform
Project, wnich will help to strengthen institutional capacity at the national level and develop
plans to restore quality and efficiency in selected universities.



11
30.   Rcbuidng Deteriorated Infaructure.  For decades, fiscal crises have led to
underfumding and deterioration of Argentina's infrastrucure.   Public investment in
transportation and water has been too low, so that public assets and the quality of services
have eroded. There is a need for a massive effort in physical reconditioning and expansion of
infrastructure, in tandem with rebuilding the institutional capacity to handle such expansion,
particularly at the provincial level. Institutional responsibilities for these sectors have been
completely reorganized through privatization--railways, airlines, Buenos Aires' water and
sewerage, ports, and selected road concessions--and decentralization of most remaining public
sector responsibilities to the provinces. Although provinces have important responsibilities in
road transport, port operations, and water supply and sewerage, the entities concerned normally
lack financial and administrative autonomy, have weak accounting and auditing systems, are
overstaffed, and have deficient management and technical staff.
31.  With regard to energy, Argentina has undertaken major changes in its sector institutions
since 1989, and is now among the most advanced of developing countries in privatizing energy
suppliers. New legislation has been passed for electricity, gas and petroleum, promoting
competition among producers. In electricity and gas, the transmission systems have been sold
to owners with limited links to production firms; the distribution systems for gas and pardy for
electicity have been sold subject to public oversight of prices and quality. The international and
domestic sale of petroleum and petroleum products was liberalized. The state oil company,
YPF, was restuctured and substantally privatized.  For the new systems to work, the
Government must rapidly develop and strengthen the new regulatory institutions, and substal
private financing must be mobilized for expansion of estng capacity.
32.   As part of a major new initiative to assist in infrastuc   rehabilitation and development
in Latin America, the Bank would seek to assist Argentina through a series of loans to enable
the cental and provincial governments to cope with their infrstur responsibilities. An
ongoing Road Maintenance Project and Water Supply Project would be followed by new projects
in both sectors. To facilitate the rationalization of the water supply sector, the Bank is curently
completing a Water Supply Sector Study with a focus on institutional and financil issues. We
would also continue to support completion of the ongoing Yacyreta I Hydroelectric Project.
Concernmg private in         development, we recently completed, jointly with a major
research institution in Argentina, an ESW task on Financing Newly Privazed Inftraxtur.
We are also working on the development of a proposed Regulatory Reform Techical Assitance
Project for newly privatized infrastrc, and facilitatng their financing through capital
markets development (para. 33). Over the medium-term, it is possible that other instruments
may need to be considered as well, if the fmancing for essential infrasuctur investments is not
forthcoming on the scale necessary.
33.   Fostering Private Sector Growth.  Argeina's future growth will depend on an
expanding and dynamic pnvate sector to lead the country's economic recovery. The
Govermnent has begun a process to end the ny distortions that repressed and misguided past
private economic activity. But the key to successful recovery will be the capacity of private
investors to marsball unprecedentd sums from Argentina's still weak capital markets. The Bank
is stongly supportng efforts that strenghen the mobilization of domestic savings and their
efficient intermediation to investment. The reform program embodied in the ongoing Financial



12
Sector Adjustment Loan, encompassing the reduction in the role of the state in the financial
sector and strengthening the banking sector and its supervisory framework, is central to that
strategy. The proposed Capital Market Development Loan and its companion Capital Market
Technical Assistance Project would support efforts to extend the maturites of fmancial
instruments and improve the regulatory framework of capital markets.
34. Delays in the judicial process also pose enormous transaction costs for the parties
involved. The Bank has thus identified judicial reform as an essential complement to its private
sector development efforts. An IDF Judicial Sector Review will examine four main areas:
operations of the courts, the Procedural Codes, alternative dispute resolution methods, and legal
education. The study will provide an upstream diagnostic review of the judicial sector and may
lead to a future judicial reform project.
35.   With regard to specific productive sector activities and services, there are several areas
in which the government still has an important role to play. Besides the problems of expensive
long-term investment credit, poor transport facilities, adverse movements in relative prices, the
agriculture sector has an important number of smallholders who either lack the technical skills
or face special agro-ecological problems in remote areas, and therefore face serious difficulties
in adjusting to the new economic environment. A proposed Provcial Agricultural Sector
Development Project would support the strengthening of provincial institutions to provide basic
services, with particular attention to the commercial smalholder clientele. A proposed Rural
Poverty Alleiaon Project is being prepared to address the needs of low-income small farmers
in depressed areas. Under a proposed Forestry Project, we would support sustainable use of
natural resources by promotng environmentally sound investments. To help restore the supply
of research, technology transfer, and quality control, the Bank is preparing a Technology
Development Report. Finally, we are also helping prepare a Mining Project to improve national
and provincial mining legislation and institutions, so as to better promote the development of the
mining sector in an environmentally sound context.
36.   Poverty Alleviion. The proportion of Argentines living in poverty doubled from 1980
to 1989,,' as formal sector employment stagnated and high inflation eroded the real wag ss of
the poor. Inflation also had a disproportionate effect on savings, as the poor were not able to
shift out of pesos as rapidly as wealthier Argendnes. At the same time, social services failed
to cushion the fall of many Argenines into poverty-because few programs were targeted to the
poor, and fiscal austerity and inadequate budgetary programming contributed to their
deterioration throughout the 1980s. Evidence points to some recent improvement in the poverty
situation as a result of price stability and growth brought about by the structual reforms: the
share of households below the poverty line in the Greater Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area
declined from 29 percent in October 1990, to 19 percent in October 1992, although less densely
populated provinces still exhibit higher poverty rates. The inflation tax has been replaced by
a more efficient form of taxation. New mvestment also increased demand for low-skldled labor
11    World Bank Poverty and Income Distribution in Lain America: The Stoyy of dte 1980s, based on UN
ECLA and Govemment household survey. Information on incidence of poverty is bemg updated in the
ongoing Povert Asessment Study on Argentina.



13
in construction in some urban areas. However, recent data also show that, while income
distribution may have improved since 1989, it is still more skewed than in 1980. Low income
groups ae lagging behind in recuperating their pre-crisis living standards, and the unmet basic
needs of the poor, especially in areas outside of the Federal Capital, are substantial.
37.   As the macroeconomic fumdamentals improve, the Bank is devoting substantially more
resources to assist in social policy and program formulation, and social service delivery. The
ongoing Provincial Development Project is fmancing rehabilitation of primary health facilites
and primary and secondary education sub-projects; the ongoing Municipal Development Project
is financing basic service levels of water supply; and the Maternal and Child Health and
Ntrition Project is assisting mothers and children in six provinces. A better understanding of
the poverty siution in Argentina will emerge from the ongoing Poveny Assessment Study.
Other operations now under preparation will assist improvements in human capital development
(educ,tion and health projects), quality of life (water supply and sewerage, directed manly
towards the poor), and nul poverty alleviation in needy provinces.
38. Environment. Argentina has overexploited some natural resources and environmental
conditions are seriously affecting health standards and constraining futur growth. The inventory
of problems includes water pollution, soil losses, deforestation, severe flooding and biodiversity
losses. Little has been done so far to address these issues. Past govermnents had little incentive
to police the industies and service activities generating these problems, which were largely in
the public sector. In more recent years the focus has mainly been on macroeconomic issues.
Although stronger Government environmental management is now emerging, the problems of
weak institutional capacity and the limited jurisdiction of the national govermnent under
Argentne federalism pose obstacles to rapid progress. With IDB help, a national Environment
Secretariat (SRNAH) is beginning to craft more functional sector organizational arrangements.
It recently won approval of an Environmental Pact, a Federal-provincial framework agreement
aimed at eliciting greater policy and enforcement collaboration. The IDB project wfll also
strengthen the legal framework and monitoring systems, and should ultimately enable the
SRNAH to exercise greater oversight over national policy and activities in this field.
39.   Following an initial review of Argentina's requirements in 1989, the Bank strategy has
been to encourage definition of suitable environmental standards for specific sector operations,
while strengthening those entities responsible for overseeing their compliance. Agricultural and
water and sewerage projects have already included such provisions. Past energy loans first
helped develop better regulation of hydroelectric facilities' compliance with international norms;
the Government later extended these to thermal and nuclear plants. Similar initiatives were
undertaken more recently concerning oil and gas operations, and a full hydrocarbon sector
environmental assessment will shortly be undertaken. Environmental problems in Government
industrial plants are being overcome under public enterprise reform operations. The Yacyreta
II Project addressed resettlement and ecological activity related to the hydroplant's construction,
in collaboration with IDB. Future Bank assistance would include enhanced flood control
measures in the Parana River Basin, incentives to industries to phase out the use of
ozone-depleting substances, and health and transport projects with environmental elements.
These and other lending prospects will be guided' v the conclusions of an upcoming Country
Environment Strategy document.



14
Bank Lending  vels and ESW
40. Although an early member of the Bretton Woods institutions, Argendtia borrowed
relatively litde from the Bank until the mid-1980s, at which time total lending net of
cancelations was only about US$1.6 billion. Lending picked up during 1986-88, with the
approval of some adjustment operations, contnued heavy support for energy, and a few projects
distbuted among other sectors (totalling US$2.4 billion net of cancellations). The early
adjusutent loans, in particular those for trade policy reform, yielded some usefil reforms but
their overall hipact was constained by the Government's inability to stabilize the economy and
control mountng hyperinflation. During 1989-90, a period of hypeilation, new lending was
restricted. It was during that period, however, that the Bank developed a very close relationship
with the Menem Government, based on an intensive ESW program and active dialogue on
macroeconomic issues. Since 1991, the Bank has stepped up lending to Argentina, for a total
of about US$3.6 billion for the FY91-94 period, about half of which has been for adjustment
support (including debt and debt service reduction) and related technical assistance operations.
Assuming strong macroeonomic and policy performance, and continued improvements in
project implementation, Bank lending to Argentina for FY95-97 could reach a maximum of
about US$2.5 billion. Adjustment lending would be phased out in FY95, and is being rapidly
replaced by investment operations.
41.   The Argentina program is underpinnd by a strong ESW agenda, closely integrated with
the lending program. In that context, we are working to improve our knowledge base in key
strategic areas of health, education, environmental policy, provincial public finance, and
regulatory issues. Other ESW tasks are nearing completion in the areas of capital markets,
water, poverty and technology development. These efforts will be complemented by regular
macroecononic monitoring and analytical work on Argentine competitiveness and export
prospects. Amnex A.1 provides a matrix of the policy issues which are being, or would be,
addressed in the Bank's FY95-97 country assistance program and Annex A.2 provides the likely
sectoral distrbution of the lending program.
Portfolio Implem
42. The implementation of investment and technical assistance loans approved prior to 1989
suffered from macroeconomic instability, counterpart funding constraints, poor management and
frequent changes in personnel. As the economy stabilized, these difficulties have abated, though
the Government still lacks an investment process on a par with those of other hemispheric
leaders in adjustment. On the positive side, savings mobilization has improved, relieving the
constraints on counterpart fiunding. Second, the Government has steadily improved its
investment programming through preparation of an investmnent program tightly linked to the
budget. Third, through the civil service reform and associated salary increases, management
in the national public sector has been gradually improved, although much remains to be done;
and those issues have yet to be seriously addressed at the provincial level. The Government and
Bank have held three Country Portfolio Performance/Programming Missions since 1990; this
year's exercise is scheduled for late March 1994.
43.   The successes achieved on the macro front have been the main determinants of the
performance of the ongoing portfolio. Improvements were also evident in investment operations,



15
following another year of greater managerial stability and a slowdown of the high turnover rate
of project implementing staff.  Although there were several high-level changes in various
ministies, most core staff were not affected. As a result, the average project rating for overall
status in Argentina has shown steady improvement over the past three years from 2.2 to 1.6.
The country rating would have been better, but Government required actions for
restucturng/cancellations initiated in FY92 for three projects rated "3" or woe were not
resolved in a timely manner. With most of these matters now resolved, we expect ratings for
overall status and development objectives to continue improving in FY94. Of the ongoing
portfolio, only one project, Water Supply 11, is rated as a problem, mainly dua to institutional
issues emerging from the decentralization process. Efforts to restructure/cancel this operation
are underway, both through supervision and ESW on water sector issues (para. 32).
Table 2: Argentlna
Sdected Ictors of Bank Portfolio Performae and Managmen
IY2_ U-L EY2 FM~
Portfolio Performane
No. of Projects undr Ilemenion                            20      21     26       20
Avg. Implemention Period (years)                         3.1    3.2    3.3        3.3
Percent of Projects Rated 3 or 4
Devdopmen Objectes                                    20%    14%    15%        5%
overall Stats                                         30%    24%    15%        5%
Avere Radtgs
Development Objectives                                 1.9    1.7    1.5       1.3
Overa  status                                          2.2    1.9    1.6       1.3
Canceled during FY (US$ Million)                        10.3   39.5  357.9        3.0
Disbursement Ratio (%)                                   39%    21%    100%       33%
Portfolio Managnemet
Suervision Resoures (total staff-weeks)                 285.5  395.5  410.6    375.4
Average Suprision (staff-weeks/project)                   14.3   18.8   15.8      18.7
Supervison Resources at Headgut     (in %)               160.0  100.0  100.0    100.0
Supervision Resources by Rating Category (staff-wee/project)
Projects rated 1 or 2                                  14.5   0.0   16.9       19.0
Projects rated 3 or 4                                  13.7   15.3    9.5       14.0
Memorandum item: date of lastnext CPPR                        3-93                3/94
44.   Almost one-third of the curren  portfolio volume is associated with adjustment operations
Launched within the past three years, and more than 80 percent of FY93 disbursemens of
US$1.4 billion were from these loans, including the DDSR loan and set-asides for debt redction
from PERAL H and the FSAL. Disbursements for most investennt operations contied to lag,
but both Provvwl and Muncipdp  Development Projects committed significant amounts for
sub-projects that will begin disbursing in FY94.



16
45.   Although the quality and pace of implementation has quickened, many tasks still lie
ahead, such as improving the speed of loan acfivation and initiation, and the monitoring by
federal authorities of large projects and those with external financing to ensure timely
implementation. Through the Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan, the Bank is
providing support at the federal level for improving procurement, budgeting, and monitoring.
At the provincial level, efforts to strengthen public sector management are being pursued through
the Provincial and Municipal Development Projects, the proposed provincial adjustment
operation, a follow up municipal development loan, and provincial education, health and road
transport projects. While supervision at 15.8 sw/project in FY93 represented a decline of almost
one-fifth from the FY 92 effort, due largely to the successful cancellations and restucturing of
problem projects, supervision coefficients will rise in FY94 and thereafter, as new operations
are launched with the provinces.
Cooperation with Other Multlateral Instituions
46.  IMF and IDB. The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in the design and supervision
of adjustment operations, in formulating country strategy, and in ESW. The IDB and the Bank
continue cofiancing and operating closely in a variety of fields (e.g., provincial development,
social sectors, environmental rehabilitation, completion of the Yacyreta hydroelectric plant and
its resettlement activity) with good results. Annual lending by the IDB over the next few years
is expected to be in the $700-800 million range.
47.   ICand MiGA Actiies. IFC's objective in Argentn is to support the private scr
in its efforts to adapt and develop under the new open market policies. To achieve this, IFC
will continue to implement a broad strategy which calls for: (i) improving the competitiveness
of the private sector through implementaton of industrial reconversion programs, upgrading of
local infrastuc , developing high value-added exports and fostering regional corporate
integration; (ii) broadening Argentine entewrprises' access to the international fiancial markets,
through both traditional financial investments (such as syndications and straightforward securities
issues) and non-traditional financial instruments (such as convertible, warrants and financial
derivatives); and (iii) developing domestic capital markets through establishment of new products
and financial institutions. As of December 31, 1993, IFC's held portfolio (loans and equity) in
Argentina was US$567.7 million, with 36 active clients (see Schedule B and Annex A2). PY94
approvals are expected to be about US$300 million.
48.   Argentina became a member of MCGA in February 1993. As of December 1993, the
MIGA portfolio of operations included five guarantees in the areas of residential mortgages,
banking and privatization for a total of US$135 million.
E. Agda for Board Considerion
49.   Progress toward ataining ountry asitance objectives would be judged in several
areas:  (i) macroeconomic management, as measured by the maintenance of an adequate
operational primary fiscal surplus and low inflation; (ii) provincial adjustment, as measured by
continued improvement in provincial fiscal balances; (iii) improvement in the competitiveness
of the Argentine economy, as measured by successful implementation of the new social secarity
reform and proposed labor market and health financing reforms; and (iv) project implementaton



17
performance, as measured by continued improvement in ratings for overall status and
development objectives. These criteria would govern the Bank's willingness to proceed with the
proposed US$2.5 billion three-year lending program for FY95-97 (para 40).
50.   The post-adjustment phase in Argentina, with more emphasis on investment lending and
the decentralization of most public services to the provinces, will place greater demands on the
institutional capacity of the Govenmient, and coordination problems in project design and
implementation will expand with the number of independent actors. They will also pose higher
costs for the Bank, both in preparing and supervising projects. Experience with the provinces
under a few ongoing operations suggests that many have only a weak capacity. This puts a
premium on designing projects with simple procedures and strong government ownership.
Effective Bank assistance may require focusing efforts on selected provinces, with due
consideration for implementation capacity.
51. Nearly all of Argentina's national power, telecommunications, gas, water, steel,
chemicals, and petroleum industries are now in private hands. So are many infrastructure and
transport activities-ports, airlines, and railways.  This places a major burden on the
still-developing Argentine capital markets, while limiting the scope for direct Bank lending. The
Bank will be strongly supportng the Government's efforts to reinvigorate the capital markets
through the proposed Capital Market Development Loan and its companion technical assistance
operation. It is possible that other Instrumeots may need to be considered as well, if the
resources required for essential private infatucture I nts are not forthcoming.
52.   Following the recent publication of a new set of nadonal accounts for Argentina, and
based on standard Bank methodology, the country's per capita income for 1992 has been
calculated at US$6,052, and Argentina has therefore been re-classified as a Category V
Borrower. Two considerations are relevant. First, although Argenfina has begun to process of
recovering its relative rankng among the world's more affluent countries, the adjustment process
is still relatively young and fragile. The fixed exchange rate regime and contnued differentials
between domestc and international inflation, are at least partally responsible for the dramatic
increase since 1991 of Argentina's nominal GDP in US dollars. A second consideration has to
do with the nature of the new national accounts. These incorporate comprehensive estimates of
the infonnal economy, which the national account of most comparators do not. Given these
considerations, caution is necessary in drawing comparisons with other countries. Nonetheless.
if Argetina continues to expenence success on the macroeconomic front and improved access
to international capital markets over the next few years, it would be appropriate to initiate
discussions concening the phasing down of Bank assistance.



18
Part Il: THE PROJECT
Background
53.   The present Argentine government has been redressing a legacy of poor policies that
undermined financial and capital market development over the previous four decades. Argentina
achieved credible stabilizaton as a result of the Convertibility Law - which restcted base
money to the level of international reserves and legally made the peso and the US dollar
interchangeable - and of a strucural reduction of the public sector deficit. Transactions, with
the exception of tax and salary payments, can be and are frequently made in dollars.
Stabilization has increased resource mobilizaton and maturity terms of fnacial insuuents, and
decreased interest rates. With an improved economic framework, growth has futer increased
the demand for fimancial assets. Reduced public sector borrowing through finacial institutions
has relieved pressure on real interest rates, inueased credit to the private sector, and increased
portfolio quality. Improved economic incentives are contributing to a better allocation of
fnancial resources and portfolio quality. Promulgation of the new Central Bank Charter, which
removed the Central Bank's deposit insurance program and bankruptcy protection through
Central Bank rediscounts, has encouraged banks to operate more soundly. Stabilization has also
discouraged the inordiate physical expansion of private banks aimed at capturing the inflation
tax for their owners. Finally, regulation and enforcement of capital adequacy and provisioning
requirements are undergoing improvements that wili contribute to a healtier bankig system.
54. Improved policies have also increased the growth in demand for investment finance.
With the public sector reduced, foreign and domestic trade liberalized, and tax and subsidy
distortions drastically curtiled, private investment demand is growing rapidly from the low
levels of recent years. Virtually aDl of Argentina's national power, telecommunications, gas,
water, steel, chemicals, and petroleum industies are now in private hands. So are many
iasucture and transport activities-ports, airlines, railways, and highways. Many firms are
now eager to take advantage of the strengthened macroeconomic framework and expand their
activities.
55. In an effort to lower interest rates and spreads, the Government introduced a ceiling on
the rates charged by public banks on domestic currency loans (public banks account for about
61 percent of the total commercial bank credit market) and an interest rate subsidy on a program
of small commercial bank loans to businesses. These policies do not address the underlying
causes of high interest rates and spreads. (Although interest rates and spreads have declined,
dollar rates charged by private banks remain far above international rates, peso rates remain
twice as high as rates charged by public banks, and spreads remain above 10 percent per year).
They compromise profitability and the transparency of loan pncing m public banks and
discourage banks from tapping the capital market to provide long term loans. The Government
has agreed that it will not renew the major fiscally-subsidized interest rate subsidy programs,
which will be filly committed by mid-1994, before the proposed loan becomes operational.
High interest rates will decline furter as continued stability further reduces maining
perceptions of country rsk and expectations of currency depreciation, and increases mobilization
of deposits and bonds.



19
Objective
56.    The proposed operation aims to accelerate capital market development to help Argentina
meet growing investment demand. Continued stability will improve the volume and terms of
bonds and loans, but faster growth of long term fiance is still inhibited. Reasons include (a)
insufficient development of capital market regulation and supervision and (b) remaining fears of
unpredictable reversals of the fundamentals supporting stability. The operation would not
address all capital market issues. The objective is to encourage the holding of medium and long
term securities by investors and bankers and longer term lending by prime-rated commercial
banks. This objective would be achieved by improving market confidence and ensuring liquidity
to creditworthy banks in the event of market developments that raise or cause spikes in domestic
interest rates. The operation would assist small-and medium-size businesses, which traditionally
have had little access to term lending from the banking system.
57.   The project is designed to introduce and consolidate the necessary capital markets
infrastructure which, along with developing indigenous skills, can produce a sustinable and
orderly national market. This includes the development of standardized debt securities, which
help meet the growing needs of issuers and investors for liquid trading markets, and the fiuther
development of existing national credit rating agencies that would enhance the market's abilt
to price and trade debt instruments with confidence. Furthermore, the proposed backstop facility
(BE) is designed to inject confidence and provide leadership for the development of a longer
term debenture market - without detacting from the natural growth of local and related
international markets and without masking the market's pricing signals. The BF's assurance of
future liquidity will assist banks to issue debenures in local or international markets, and to
offer loans with even longer maturities with the assurance that debentures can be sold in the
&ture.
Project Description
58.   The proposed loan amount is US$500 million. The loan would support a Backstop
Facility (BF) that would offer prime-rated commercial banks the option to sell to the facility US-
dollar-denominated ecurities issued to refinance specifically identuied US-dollar-denominated
bank debentures that banks had issued to support their longer term loans, should banks be unable
to rollover or extend such debentures in the market. This facility would be implemented through
a corporation (the Fund) established and owned by the Government. The reforms supported by
the 1991 Public Sector Reform Loan and the 1993 Financial Sector Adjusment Loan (FSAL)
are expected to improve the banking policy framework for the proposed project. An agreed
policy and institutional development program (Annex A6), including macroeconomic stability,
freely determined interest rates, the removal of existing interest rate subsidies, and strengthened
capital market regulation, supervision and enforcement, would help to increase market
confidence. A complementary Capital Market Development Technical Assistance loan
(CMTAL) would be proposed concurrently to help finance improvements in capital market
supervision and regulation; to train commercial bans' staff in undertaking project financing; and
implement the new, reformed pension system.



20
Investment Demand and Long-Term Funding
59.     Participating banks (PBs) would use the proposed facility to increase their portfolio of
long-term fnance for productive purposes. The IDB has approved a wholesale credit line
through B3anco de InversiIn  Comercio Exterior (BICE), a Government-owned wholesale bank,
for US$300 million that commercial banks would use to fund private investment projects. The
Export-Import Bank of Japan will cofnance the IDB loan with a siriilar amountY The total
of US$1. 1 billion is only a small part of expected investment demand, and is consistent with the
domestic resources tat commercial banks and final borrowers are expected to provide, as well
as with the intermediating capacity of eligible banks. A recent study estimates that the newly
privatized public enterprises (PEs) alone will need over US$3 billion yearly in long-term funds
if their investment requirements are to be met. These are being met from internal cash and
foreign borrowing. A survey of 250 well-known enterprises estimated that investment by these
enterprises would grow by 19 percent from 1992 to 1997. In fact, total private investment
increased by about 32 percent and 37 percent in 1991 and 1992 respectively. Furthermore, the
appraisal mission estimated that 15-20 banks could be eligible. The eighteen top commercial
banks, which had a portfolio of US$7.6 billion in 1992, have been increasing their long-term
operations, including bond issues of more than US$500 million in 1993 alone.
Project implementation
60.    The borrower would be the Argentine Republic. The project is being submitted as a
Single Currency Loan (SCL) in dollars, as it complies with the eligibility criteria for the SCL
loan program: (a) the project entity (the Fund) will earn its revenues in dollars; (b) the project
entity is designed to be and is intended to remain, financially autonomous of the Government.
The Government expects the Fund to maAage its financial affairs without reliance on the public
budget; (c) under the financial management &4 administration agreements, the Financial
Manager will manage the Fund's commitments with a view to ensuring that its cashflows are
swfficient to meet its debt service obligations on the Bank loan; and (d) the project entity's assets
and liabilities will both be exclusively in US dollars. The Argentine Republic would onlend the
proceeds of the Bank loan to the Fund on the same terms as those of the Bank loan to the
Argentine Republic. The Fund would be the executing agency. The Bank would enter into a
Project Agreement with the Fund, setting forth the obligations of the Fund in carrying out the
project. The financial manager of the Fund would be an international financial institution with
a proven successful record. Banco de Inversion y Comercio Exterior (BICE) would perform
administrative and oversight functons, including the hiring and supervision of the Fund's
financial manager.
61.   Under the BF, a participating bank would make long term US$ investment loans ("Term
Eligible Loans" or TELs) funded by its deposit base, its equity, and shorter term US$
denominated debenures. These debentures could be bullet bonds or extendable bonds (i.e.,
bonds that give the holder the option to extend the maturity thereof). To match the maturities.
of its assets and liabilities, the PB could purchase a backstop option from the Fund. If the PB
2/BICE's activities will include foreign trade and investment fiancing. Other sources of
BICE funds will include foreign banks, foreign export credits and the capital market.



21
purchased a backstop contract and maintained a good credit rating but the bonds were not
refinanced in the market in part or in whole, the PB could issue to the Fund within a specified
period of time bonds to replace those bonds that were not refmanced, at a spread over LIBOR
(agreed beforehand) above the spread of the initial bonds. For the Fund's commitment, the PB
would pay an annual fee which would cover the Government's commitment fee to the Bank
(para. 62). Given the strong market premia on long-term funding, banks would be likely to
agree on the higher spread and the commitment fee. The Fund would either keep the bonds in
its portfolio until the next maturity date, or it could sell them in the market if and when
conditions warrant. The Fund would not leverage the loan (i.e., its backstop commitments
would not exceed the size of the loan).
62.   Part of the Bank loan (US$3 million) would be used, through disbursements into a special
account, to provide resources to fmance the Fund's expenses during the initial years.
Furthermore, development of the management capacity of the Fund will be financed with the
assistance of a Grant from Japan's Policy and Human Rebources Development Fund, in the
amount of Y20.6 million (approximately US$190,000). The Govenment could draw on the
remainig Bank commitment through a second special account if and as required to honor its
commitments to purchase bonds from PBs. This latter disbursement would be made against
evidence of the Fund's backstop commitments shortly before the Fund is required to purchase
bonds from PBs pursuant to backstop options. The undisbursed amount of the Bank loan would
be subject to the Bank's standard commitment fee (now, by Board decision, 0.25 percent p.a.),
except for funds already committed under backstop contracts, which would eam an additional
0.15 percent p.a.. An extended 7-year grace period would both increase the impact of the
operation over the life of the loan and not penalize the Government for using the loan as
designed. A deadline of commitments at the end of the seventh year would minimize bunching
of amorization toward the end of the life of the loan.
63.   The operation would ultimately support the medium and small corporate clients and
mortgage borrowers (for the acquisition of new commercial or residential buildings) of PBs,
which have not had direct access to the capital market or to long-term lending by commercial
banks. To assist the needs of medim and small firms for term loans, the maximum size of a
term eligible loan (CEL) would be US$10 million, the minimum term of a TEL would be six
years and the maximum pemissible share of loans for acquisition of new commercial and
residental buildings in a PB portfolio of TELs would be 20 percent. The BF would not
backstop bonds issued by non-bank corporations, including the large privatized utilties.
Corporations issuing bonds have a greater capacity to finance investment than the small and
medium-sized enterprises targeted by the small sizes of the TELs. Furthermore, the large
privatized utilities will benefit from internal funds and important long term funding from their
new owners as part of the privatization agreemenb and commitments. In contrast, the growth
of medium enterprises has not benefitted from long term finance from banks or the capital
market. Private banks have focused on short term credit and only recently on mortgage lending.
Only now are banks indicating some willingness to extend the terms of their corporate portfolio,
provided they can obtain matching funding. The proposed operation would support this new
trend at a time that the capital market has not yet developed to provide the required funding.



22
64.   PB eligibility would be determined by BICE, in accordance with strong minimum
performance criteria which was set forth in the Project Agreement. These criteria will focus on
the financial soundness of the PB and include specific financial indicators as well as single A
minimum PB bond ratings by at least two domestic rating agencies. A minimum triple B rating
would be allowed only for drawdowns and not for new commitnents. This condition would
ailow drawdowns during market disruptions that provoked a slippage of all bank ratings. The
criteria are described in the SAR (paras. 4.524.61).
65. The Ba-nk would not require that proceeds from the BF be used for specific projects, but
rather that a PB increase its portfolio of long term loans for productive purposes commensurate
with its use of the BF. Therefore, the Bank's approval of the use of the proceeds by PBs from
the bonds purchased by the Fund would not be required and the Bank's procurement guidelines
would not apply to the loan. A drawdown by a PB pursuant to a backstop commitment will be
conditioned on the PB's extnding term eligible loans (TELs) in an amount at least equivalent
to the amount the PB seeks to draw down. The Fund would maintain a negative list of ineligible
industries or activities. The project agreement would provide for appropriate reportng to the
Bank on the TEL portfolios of PBs and for Bank monitoring thereof. PBs would provide
inwpection rights to the Fund and its designees with respect to TEL documents. The Fund could
withdraw eligibility from a PB that included ineligible loans in a TEL .
66.  Progress in the agreed policy and institutional development program (para. 58) would be
reviewed during two pauses in commitments. The two reviews would be implemented after 30
percent and 60 percent of the loan has been committed or after 18 and 36 months of
effectiveness, whichever comes first. At these times, commitments would be balted until the
reviews were completed. Loan performance would also be reviewed through frequent
supervision by both Regional and FSD staff.
67. AuditiDg of the project would cover BICE's financial statements, dhe Fund's accounts,
and the two special acouns. The Fund and its designees would be entitled to audit the records
of PBs to ascertain compliance with the requirement that they increase their portfolio of long-
term loans for productive purposes. BICE and the Fund would be audited by auditing firms
satisfactory to the Bank.
68.    The project is designed to help prime-rated banks fumd long term loans from the capital
market (para. 56). Given that PBs would be prime-rated, it is expected that PBs will be
financially sound. Sustained macroeconomic stability, the expected portfolo investments of the
private pension administration fimds under the recently approved Pension Reform Law,
implementation of the accompanying CMTAL and the related policies (Annex A6 of MOP), and
implementation of the FSAL (with one trance outstanding) will help expand and strengthen the
capital market and the banking system which the project calls upon to expand long term lending.
Furthermore, conditions to be imposed on the Fund's management would support the project's



23
imstitutional sustainabiity. BICE's sustainability would be achieved with a profit oriented
management, including independent lending procedures and a lean organization.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
69.   Given Argentina's increasing private investment demand as well as its limited
intermediation of long term savings, the Country Assistance Strategy calls for stong support of
the Government's efforts to reinvigorate the capital market. Given the incipient nature of the
domestic bond market and the improved policy conditions, the proposed amount would provide
significant support to accelerate market development.  The project would promote the
development of an orderly and efficient market for debt securites of Argentine commetcial
banks and would thus help accelerate capital market development. Policy conditionality (i.e.,
macroeconomic stability, stronger final and capital market regulation and supervision, and
supportive interest rate policies) would help strengthen investor confidence. No issues of
conflict of the proposed operation with IFC's operations have been identified. In fact, the
operation complements IFC's assistance to private companies and financial intermediaries in
mobilizing resources from the capital market.
Loan Conditions
70.    The Government would create the Fund prior to loan signing. Actions required prior
to effectiveness, and renewed commitments following the two formal reviews are summazed
in Annex A6.  Conditions of effectiveness include compliance with the three-year
macroeconomic program and signature or finalization (as appropriate) of all subsidiary
agreements and documents. Conditions to be reviewed during the two pauses in commitments
would include compliance with the macroeconomic program, absence of fiscally subsidized
interest rate programs, improved banking and capital market supervision, regulation, and
enforcement, satisfactory BICE perfomance, and satisfactory PB eligibility criteria.
Benefits and Risks
71.    The main benefit would be an increased level of capital market development and the
provision of longer term funds for small and medium sized enterprise investments and mortgage
loans for acquisition of new commercial buildings and residential housing. The main risks are
resumption of macroeconomic instability, including further strain on the banking system;
extended government interventions to lower interest rates; and weak progress in bank
supervision. If these events led to appreciable interest rate increases, PBs would exercise their
option to sell their bonds to the Fund. While the risk of default on these bonds would be minor
(given the requirement that a PB have a minimum triple "B" credit rating at the time of drawing
down a backstop commitment), these events would undermine the capacity to mobilize long term
resources and thus detract from the capital market improvement objective of the operation.
72.  Improved public finance, which has mustered considerable public support, will reduce
the risk of macroeconomic instability. Furthermore Government commitment to policies that



24
preempt other risks is strong, including the commitment to phase out interest rate interventions
and actions to improve the Central Bank's bank supervision.
73.   The SCL feature greatly reduces the risks of the operation. It eliminates the task of
managing a multicurrency risk in a dollar-based economy; and helps match the Fund's revenues
and costs as well as its assets and liabilities. All of these reduce risks of cashflow problems for
the Fund and increase its autonomy.
Lesons Learned
74. The proposal embodies several lessons from prior operations. Up-front conditionality
and the two pauses in commitments would guard against policy reversals and encourage good
loan performance. Stronger regulation and supervision and reduced state protection of PBs
would encourage sound and prudental banking. Improved economic performance supported by
the operation would catalyze other sources of lending. Market driven pricing of BICE's loans
and the removal of credit subsidies would also help avoid the displacement effects that have been
noted with regard to prior operations. Finally, the Govermment's strong commitment to a capital
market policy program will improve the contribution of the operation to develop the bond market
and extend lending maturities.
Recommendadon
75.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
February 4, 1994
Washington, D.C.



25
Schedule A
ARGENTINA
CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Timetable of Processing Dates
(a) Time Taken to Prepare               36 months
(b) Prepared by                         Ministry of Finance, BICE, CNV/ World Bank
(c) First Bank Mission                  November, 1991
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure         August, 1993
(e) Date of Negotiations                December, 1993
(f) Loan Signing                        March, 1994
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness       April, 1994



- 26 -                                Schedule B
Page 1 of 3
The Status of Bank Operatios in Argetina
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(as of Dwamber 31, 1993)
Undisbused
relative to    Last ARPP
Amount in US$ million  amsal                  sumisi o
Loan or                                          LI  amg1Icjgi)   projction  Deelopmeat  Ov=Hli
Creditno. FY  Borrw       Purpose               IBRD  Undbued (US$ Million) objectivs    sab
Fuly disb&ued Loans (40)                       4,625.0
2641     1986 Arntina    Water Supply             44.8       12.6       12.1         2        2
2854     1987 Arg_tina    Power Ditbution        276.0      158.3      139.0         1        1
2920     1988 Aretina    Municipal Development   120.0       49.3       38.4         1        1
2984     1989 Argenta    Social Sector            28.0        3.0        1.3         1        1
3280     1991 Argetina    Pwvincl Development   200.0        171.4      95.4         1        2
3281     1991 Argentia    Water Supply           100.0       98.8       14.4         3        3
3292     1991 Aentina    PEREL                    23.0        4.6       -5.6         1        1
3297     1991 Argntina    Agitui  Services        33.5       22.2        1.4         2        2
3362     1991 Awetina    PNblicSectorelblmT.A.  23.0         16.1       10.1         1        2
3416     1992 YPF             ocrbn Engieering    28.0        18.S       4.5         1        1
3460     1992 A    ina    Mm Admin. 11            20.0        11.9       0.9         1        1
3520     1993 Argenia    Ywyreta                 300.0       115.1      50.1         I        1
3521     1993 Argetina    Flood Rehabilitation   170.0      154.3       92.3         1        2
3556     1993 Argetn    Public Entepis Reform 11 300.0       100.0       0.0         1        2
3558     1993 Argeia    Fnacial Sector Adjustment400.0      100.0      -47.5         1        1
3611 bl  1993 Argntina    Road Mantance          340.0      340.0        0.0         1        1
3643     1994 Arnia    Maerl & Child Heat   100.0            97.0        2.0         1        I
Total                                          7,131.2
Of which has been repaid                    2,071.4
Total Now Outsading                            5,059.8
Amount sold                                       12.8
Of which repaid                                12.8
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                 5,047.0
Total undisbured                                           1,473.3
a/  ating of 1-4; see OD 13.05, Annm D2, Pre _rtio of Implenat Suy (Patn 590).
b/ Not yet effective.



a       aa               .. - -- -- - --          - -- .. .        - - - --         .4 -4 a a                         
g >Uh                                            ~ ~~~~/        I  *11   I 
tt c c S t~1 ~tett te
4.       -    i          i   IuIn1 1, fil.uit 
*   C$ il1l [                                   ! 1    1                    !l   WX{I[   il
|       :    8°N S      all        g        @8glESlS 2   lil  5;9.sX;o                                 l
I|S 4l Fl1                                              U    'II',       li{      ,0  ;E,l       EWEEE     { g.s s 
9~Eo^gggiigll9*"'8888@|@flZ;|@t 
a  | F $8 88 8 |8 8  8 5  s s8 W  8 s P 4 5  8 |8 0gg gggg||>Y~ur a- A >" E  " S S 1 
| ~ ~ ~~~   a   aaao                                                                      .4eU ; " l , ; B g g l G B " l ' t ' ' ' ' ' : X
;    g    1lilE   PoBg   |    {  1                                              i10   wic~~~~~~~~~~~
1llo | {i ii  1; 2 w | S | $ |   Y 11 i; S                                        rh|>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~~ 



- 28 -
ARIEMENTOF INC INVESIM              Schedule B
STATEMCNTOFIFCINVESTMENTSPae3o3
C_   _    ohqprd Hamd by ld _        
pij Yew                                                                     bY -uI -  4i4is
Yaw"                1am -
fAe. Imung          F_RaniihuWdu        -   4,00    -    4JO
Eomema. Ia.u        Mkmem sUwIS               - am =
Edaw                tX_.              Om0  ism  130f0  1600
n "_ S~~~~~~~~~30                    - 80QO0  100
nbama               h*                   -  20      -   0A.
-Undwe                                   -   0      -   3m
ub-ftW                                1.  74.60 3UO  SU6
.....' X \.. =
bl .iCsa  mutdapeumdipedp_eb
dI Hed Cii.   __b_mbid ad idawedbwsar_
el       _ d niEm I             .
sI n2 m  dlb st4 m   _* _l dplliU;ndnGf  MOFSI



29
Annex Al
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA: Polcy Objectives of Bank Assistance Progra
Area/Sector                                       Objectives
Consolidatng Macroeconomk Reforn
Provincial adjustment                      * Reform of provincial finances
* Downsizing of provincial governments
* Transfer of public service responsibilities to provinces
* Privatizion of provincial enterprises and banks
Privatization                              0 Divestiture of PEs owned by Ministry of Defense
* Improved anti-trust legislation
* Strengthen Reguatory Agencies
Enhancing Competitveness                   * Support for labor narket reforms
* Reduce taxation on labor
* Implementation of social securty reform
Insdagtonal Stretheng in the Social Secto
Health                                     0 Facility transfer of public services to provinces
* Refocusing on basic health care
* Reforming national health insurance program
Education                                  * Facility transfer of secondary education-to provinces
* Financial and adminishtative reforms
* Quality improvements at secondary and higher education
levels
Rebudn  Inftwtnre
Energy and Power                           * Privatization/concessioning of electricity transmission and
disibution
* Restructuring of National Nuclear Commission;
privatization of unfinished nuclear power project
* Completion and privatzation of Yacyreta
* Establishment of regulatory fraeworks and agencies
Transport                                  * Road concessioning/transfer to provinces
* Privatization of ports
* Removal of bottlenecks in export corridors
* Consolidation of infrastce  management capacity
* Rehabilitation of national and provincial road networks



30
Annex Al
Page 2 of 2
Area/Sector                                       Objectives
Water supply and sewerage                 * Improved rural infrastructure (irrigation, drainage and flood
control)
* Improved water management
* Improved sanitation in urban and rural poverty areas and
strengthened institutions
* Promote private sector participation
Fostering Private Sector Development
Financial sector adjustment               * Liquidation, privatization or downsizing of federal and
provincial commercial banks
* Enforcement of minimm capital and provisioning
requirements
* Improved disclosure of bank financial statements
* Implementation of Cental Bank reform
Capital markets development               * Improvement in term intermediation performance
* Secondary market development
* Improved regulatory management and enforcement
* Implementation of social security reform
Agricultural, industrial services         0 Strengthen regulatory framework for privatized systems
* Restoration and reform of applied research, extesion,
vocational training and quality control
* Restructuring of agricultural services involving participation
of private sector and including partial user fee financing
* Liberalization of trade in consultant services
* Development of improved national and provincial m
legislation and institutions
Povefly Alleviaion   -                       Targeting of social assistance towards vulnerable groups
* Improved delivery of social assistance
* Reduction of matemal and infant morta'Ity and
malnutrition
* Poverty alleviation in rural areas
Environmenl Management and Protection    * Sustainable use of natural resources
* Pricing and regulatory framework in forestry
* Management of native forests
* Soil conservation and chemical use
* Property issues
* Expanded access to rural credit
* Market-based solution to water pollution problem



- 31 -
Oo. 1S
Anam At
Pnge I ot 2
Argfta - Bank Group Fact 8heete FY91 -97
IBeD Lending Progam, FY91 -97
Past                     Co-       .              Plaed
Fun      .    FM2             FM          FN          FM            FM
Oo w _nggnena (USa.)                    070.5          373.0          1060.       610.0      705.0         8W5.0        II0
AgiLaU                                    4.0              ..             ..         _           ..         20.0
bus" end F                                  ..             ..          20.4       8...
Ene _rJ,                                   ..              ..183.
Powe                                        ..            7.              .,         ,.
Publ S        Maaeme                     80.4                          38.3                    0.0            ..         20.0
b*auwr& Un Oe.                           14.7                          20.0          ..         *-          40.0         $0.0
Human R                                     ..             ..             ..       16.4       40.0          40.0         40.0
Envonment                                  ..                              ..        ..         ..            ..         10.0
MbN  & OerEa                                ..             ..             ..         ..          .            .             .
u Iiu ~ ~                     _                  ..             ..          ..         ..__ _        .._ _..
TOW                                    100.0          100.           100.0      100.0       100.0         100.0        10A0
Audmusnt Loan aO.4                                      92.5            58.7         ..       56.0
Spefalltw.  ans&O s                      10.0            7.8            41MA       100        450          1000          100t
Tw                                     100.0          1000           100.0        100       100.0         10.0         100.0
blws.ntmnu (USa.)                       480.0           255.8        1M27.        4t0.0      S20.0         700.0         750
Adjusent Loansal                          2W5           169.1         1165.1      200.0      100.0         1sn           1S0.0
speaft kw. Loans& Oft"                  161.0           116.8          261.2      250.0      420.0         5o0          600
In s(48m)                               109.6           216.7          207.3      2S2        285           3t8          330.7
af Progran ana StrtalAd sunstLans. Secr Ajusbont Loans. andS        O mst MLans.



- 32 -
Dec. lo=
Anumx A2
Page 2 of 2
Argentina - IFC and MIGA Progam, FY81 -94
Past                                      Curoat
FY91                  FY92                  FYS93                 FY94
IFC Approvas (US$m)               622                  174.2                 155.6                500.0
Sector)
Agri-buinoss                     ..                  26.0                    ..                  10.0
Cap. Makets                    10.                   12.0                   3.0                  2.0
Chem-Ferilhzr                  26.0                    ..                                        3.0
flf-tructur.                                          7.0                  67.0!                50.0
Matung                         22.0                                        17,0                 22:0
Oil-minn                       42.0                  51.0                  t3.0                 13.0
Tota                          100.0                 100.0                 100.0                 100.0
lavoetumt Instumen (I
Loins                          S3.0                  69.0                  53.0                   75
quIty                          14.0                  13.0                   9.0                   10
Quasi-equity al                30.0                  13.0                  35.0                   15
Oter                            3.0                     .                   3.0                    ,._
Toti                          100.0                 100.0                 100.0                 100.0
MIGA Guantes (US$m)                 ..                  50.0                  96.0                U3S.0
MIJGA Comuutmeame (USm)             ..
a/ Includes both qua-equity an and qu-equity equWtypes



- 33                                      Annex A3
Page 1 of 2
A'gd  Prior*it Porty milcat
31S0   t_k u_
ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                   w~go
Utpow#                                                          .mt        - _I  _  _
oJwpseuia                           1a.IuuN.2-410-                                      -
so=   ihim W.4M                                          a         -          a         -         a
t%"                                 Ioba.                -         _          _         _          _         a
31s   -hS                           -PX                           a ..       .                    a _
11937-10SS         10       3,830      710       430
Rua
U 1sedb,b                            hmI.                          - a        -         -          -         -
C         m                          v 0                0          0    923,10          _          .         -
Feo                                                    - .a    311,44                  .         _          -
b         _PiU0  *S6 Zi.i           %dGDP                .         _          _         _          _         _
.                  ~~~~%~dagspp          101        106        111       107        107       305
M*                                     *              101        tOS       10?         _          a        103
?am&                                                  102        106       114              -              103
km bI                             _ bw                 So        44         2          43        33         3
ws_9ft                            '                _          _        30          3        40
mm"                                %      I                      a_         7_          _         _
Orr                                                               a         8          77                  StU
TOWl                                                             St 6       71        48         a         7n
F-ImoaI                              s3b Lt0                     10        1i10  t 0         t            LOs
To<l btE    bl,w                            _          31         3.3       2.3        a           6 
=UmIU-     *                     10n,000 UObtUa                    _'       140         _ 
hPuPOdou gmowt  Auto                   .faut mrtaly raftoPiay.u e,
6+                                  250                                   120
S                                                                         100
4                                                                          80
130~ ~~1
3                                                                          G0
2                                                                          40
1I5                                                                        20
00                                                                          0
roMEO.    *dd7O.     .me              oMEb   inM7Os        -                add~   .1650.       -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



Annex A3
Page 2 of 2
A ~Rusmrr And Expnd~Wu
UM  £1v                        No
Inodkxw                              -&NO               d*e"ws                                 b w         c
HUMAN REPsUo
Pop.bdkft(auhII5)                                     2 .242    2652          U     445        02M0       CW,
AVqud-yflo                             "de i           07         0n                   an7        oa4        A4
Urban                                %of               7AU          .        17*       7.3        72.       77.A
PopUltion powtkh rds,                                   iS         1.7       la         L7         Li         W.
Urbn                                   *                1t        2.3        2*        19        21          0.7
To tote.144)                                              9        1o         12       1i2        20         313
Auinwe                             %fikm                 13       1i s _
-                                       am               34.-      34
Fea.                                                     13        26         23         27        30         3$
Fauo pat 100 anus
Urban                                                    -         -        104        106         . o
Rural                                           -         so~~~~~~~~~--           
NATURALRBSOURC:
An.                                 6msc.qkm           2.767     2767      2%767     2W7        3944       3W
Donaty ~ ~     ~      ~     qF*                 t0        2. 2,                .0        168"
.1"1                        V ef am                      65.        OA3       40.3       43        44.
CmarpimkmuIleak                       _tl               Q1         OA        41         02         0.1       43
A.lmUa lu d wiaied                                      0. Q0.3               LO        32         3.3      #L
?.weaaamdwod4h~                     tI6~km              09        403        593     9X333       7.70
D    _ma(n5                                             41        42         *IU2        _          _          _
INCME
HtomebMoim
SbinoftWW20%d_b                     %a                                                   a _                  -mo_
Shwaofba%0dbwmm f                                        _         _
e 2-3$s 6-7 --
"~~~~~~~~g    on   to _    W                       3f
-L        20          4        L 23    320         2.70
SsofauiaaIblresOOP                                      112                  I 12."     9.4        U         2.
:2_in                                %otOD                -         _          _          _         _      
Avugbom.cis                     pmab.nl                   ---                               
Fudai pow                            %ofODP               _      -
!mpo.anFm paou                     lkg of Oilp          975      1.316      1.01      1.061      1,701      ,322
Fll oad        da 
TeA__                              %aoum"fGDP            .         _          _          _          -         -
To  lroadudib                          k                                  211.30          _         _ 
DrVZSrMINT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
He"
Aoomg   _ehag                     %ofpop.              *          *         _                 
'oulsoaepb,ui                         p       e         (00       53         355     _      _ 
?apulatiemparmm                         f610                      ffO         1           _         _          _
Poaazomebaq'                                              _         _        216        510         _        144
a X ~ ~       ~      ~~~~        ~~~~              76 -<p  _             42_7.4       _         _
OISIhdedShIYOdW        )            %Od                   a         - _0 _1                         a          aI_
Otamguo~~~~~~~~~Ot%g"O"
Sr  %OfSdWppUF.         23        $4         74        43          _        92
F_                                     *                31        $7         78          3         _         94
PuaplLtadwr.pdauagi p                                    29SZs 1                         VU
t'9ll4Cinx_idatin@gidty                 w6                          7          7          _         _
PU9IhI¶W,nsVi4                     %afcc-                         73                    4 n                  96
1%qCI. S                    12         9          a14 _ 
%d*(Sp W)               -          -                   is                     _
A Ndxt  pq(.  -_      to           a        112               .             3
Sowes Would DmR Igam_uwi EU     D      _stmmt, ApI 199  1
13



-35 -                                                     A
Patol2et
Aradn    toKy S_MOmi _udIiat
>_^_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO
AV*Uk"                                                                  0.       0.1      6.7      6O        6.0          t60       o0       .0
b _emu                                                                 414      360      37       36.7      3Qr           30.T      17T     3L?
Se0ife                                                                 460      6L       u. as    Su        6"            63.      6.       6
Co_iut   m                                                              70         .      6"       64.5      3.            6te      61.       1.8
ate,                                                                    1        1        14.6      t.7      1.            109.     10.4     tat
PtIlwowe" t                                                           12.2      II      1Z4       4.S      1.,          1ts       17*      17.4
GooMflIMIfit,VOIW11                                                    is       to6      Zs3      Is        as            12       Zs       2.
3e0Fo amps                                                              1        10.4      7.7      t.        6.1           0         .       0#A
ItPu    ampS                                                             6.6      46       61       6.1       7.            7.8      7.6      7.
are" "Wosoo   I 0                                                                154      16       1.Q       14.3          1"       16.      1ts
Sf0.0 domosU.0.g .S od0 1".7                                                              16..     16.1      16.I          17.6     1        16.7
ago" Og,oum frmood 0~Una          Pon*m                               740.    141.306   MUG73   62%        WOO*6        276*2    2o66.1    316.34
GromObPoaepwauea(UO                                                    0.465   t4t,      6.6660    6*      7.711          0*4      6.71     0*10
PUUIJC 01MAR03 1042. SOE4  w4 ". 30kAA)
cw    tIS                                                                       14 16S  14  1"     17.1     17            17.0     17*      17.4
cii      uwUlog                                                        10.0     I"       I"        16       16.4          IM       1ol1      1"
OuwpbIg(4) 6    ()                                                     (LI)      2        j6                 1.7           OJ       0.4       Q
ComMapsm                                                                3*    1.4         1.         0       1.0                    I 1 .0   1.
F_       _ a m                                                                            tJ 29 0.4  1.5e0                          (.4)    W0
Gaoso _a_W oll   U                                                               Qtc 01   6T                 60            4.0      4.0      10
aeoOmsU    ,                                                           (60                                   604                    4.0      to
GrowOmCSgiW                                                            (74)    (1.1)      7.0       7.4      60                      .       10
T       C _aiomiI                                                      (.q4)     (1t     11.0       1.       2.0            e       1.       1.S
Poll  c e_ umptm                                                       44        61      t1.       103       2.5           1.1      1.7      1.5
MOP                                                                     64 7a             6.1      7.7      10.0          113      12.4     1a
d,00,0 of   1)                                                       1.01     t.0Qt      10a"      6LJ7      46J          3"        1"       1&S
PWVb    area$, No"  womsqbfs" M                                        (464      6.7      46.T    f14        t6s           6.        4         S
~~~~~~~~~~~~ .           . 9.        .   ,   ,.



- 36 -                                                             AauM
Areea --Ky EoMiO Indbcoo,
-  A_ t
*060     1060      tggj      160o      IsSe         t9S4      12S       16S
UAL t4Ep M UNSMasu
E i  (dopdo a"                                                           11.MOM    14,2     1M        15.046    1.            17.44     19.      21,6
OftmOW: UWmIdIft..b.                                                     0.573    ILt=     12.107      t=      1t2.          14*274    16.7t    17.711
Iv'pmb       a" MO                                                        6.064     to"4   itt.SE    10           .t2         21t76     2315   24
Of WhiLwI d u an ."                                                      &864     4.100     6,100    14.72    18.66          17*66    164466   10.
Reswo" 0m.M                                                                         t.m      3.000    (3.71     (4.654         (4.340)    (4.Gt01 (
Not Pase P mata                                                           561       5.0      5.        4,574     %W            4.M  S 6.1    5T7
°1t,                                                                   7.101 tt4t   3     kg"       6,M3      4,336          Mo1       40f     7.77
tG thumovawea                                                                           f 71    a0       (         (3            (3t   O 3          0
Ounestr amun bs                                                           136       1*641    (2.664    (6.361    (6.471        (560     (S.72    (10.16)
P'sAft . - . h,,4st,,we                              I~~~~m    to=      2.461     4.170     3.001         I.On       .405    2.=6
ULT toom (MO                                                              (t,%    .411( 1) 341          PR       2.M666                  2        3
a0m"g ht,7t"e1                                                                    R4e1)       S41    (3.6        . (04            s      (4       (615)
a    -  ( -  9  -    _ 1                                (^         ZJ      asEs     ?,~~~~~~~~~~o  n  &  745t  cm  4,m  S         S35
ftsumW1w. (MOn                                                                                        1 U2 506    566          17.0t     17.672   t10*
Grame Rm      _moalhds  posts                                                 *      10.7       Mt       7.3        .4     as               *
m4apusl.u%osop                                                             15.       10.A       7.3       .6       IL1            6.3      6         6A
IWmp6s aS dfGOP                                                               *       40        6*       &2        7,0            7.       7         7.A
Ustowe, 0du~~~~~~~~..a. 5. oGOP ~~~~~~7.2                          6.5      1.8      t1.       n.             gap      (.        f.1
Mba._musein      l                                                         6        26. as    (.4       p.4       6.4            7.5      7.6      W.
Abmaip                                                                     24       4*       12.7       65         *            7.0       71.3     7.5
--*g,"                                                                  6.       14.      (Its         4   tJ2          t      *.S              6.7
a?    4"    1Z"              3 f        2            at    US 
Umombatindi  uspoON                                                        =11              O14         au         72            4.1       4        3.t
£xpehp                                                                    111.2    112       11        116.3    1144           116.      I2O      1t
im_ p:hN                                                                  106       t17    1  t2 110.  111.6    111*S 11.                116*     16
Tomettrad ra                                                              1l06      ll0l3    10.       101       1022          1.4    104         10u
.1d_ Pm.Rft                                                                404       7S    10tt0       1t6S     121.4        1"L.       11       t"at
COMm. EN "l'(ropeaf                                                     4,.    1to            6O        17.6       to0           4         2. Lt     7
Rem' _      s t5                                                                    163.2     4t.S      14.0      1              064       Li       tU
G0P0data(%_goomote                                                      3.0t145    2         141.0      168        7*            40        2        &
a,unwe                                                                                                          .,



- 37 -
ism 1994
Anmax AS
Pae I otf 
Argetina -- Key Exposure rdioatots
1000sx          1001       10992   1003 a          1004     lOGS      m99e
ToW DebtOubq M M O M"  bi                           a"         62.10      as,"       67.610    MM             4w       02aim    10O.7
No obbuwae      eJ n" hi                            o(.5        (2.46)       240)     8.4      MAS            8.175     7.035    7.
TOW Dbt 6         am   JSOM   11                     8,053      80         e.1##      OA0       7.16          8.126     0.118 t
0d.tand 0.6Smile bWumn (S)
T00g208                                             664.7      462.3      440.3      440.0 440.4             41.       41t 42
TOI¢OP                                               81         44.0       5S         MS        26*            Q0*     31.1    351
TO                                                   7GU1 .8               41         4S2       4.8           46        47.2     50.
C5on04sianmWFO                                        0.0        1.0        Oa         0.0      (L8             7       0O        0.6
IURDSO.ibQ
P uWI dCfeol       aS                                21.1       2Q8        41.1       30O       26*           27A3     26.1      S6.1
NsD 06CSSS 3.                                                    &4         1.         4.1       SA             4       2.        a.3
lORD         w.                                       9          27         24         26        57 &30                 4A4       4.
IFC (USa)
Lwau       M-0*4                                    3*                     M         us2S    47.057 0                  4M.      40
Eqldty                                               211           4       Su          6.      tODJ            0.       no       2
MIQA
aI E30nWm.
el A1u/1m p       Sbuwdp   i    a db p      nr                  ladd                 t-
d AaumishsMlteUU1UWuuS



ANNEX A6
A. Condlons f Effeclives and Review Pass
Fmhe*$ Atm          Acd|a Take  | Du                           |                                                                    Forma Review                                          (Sc       al      Roview
Mhato..             Agreed to aggtegate 3-yea fisca progrm  and asern! Anmcb  whit           Cunplc  WhIt 31-ya                Ceomminc  Wmi 3-ya .acmecmean* pIga  (if it tot               CazpUtie whit 3-yea macetecnuesc pro rm (if e t
-           J~~~B IMP s Bank to can=  of EFF nogeetoba ki*dg oparadwAl                 maractni   eorcespd. "aiolkasd smreiancsftablt)                                                 CXpireMd, causmiOd maCcacominc sabilty).
8am             jphuasa  rs.                                                               _________ _ _ _ _ __    ____________________
Muk4
loWaved            GMbA a VAa8     d to coogess ft mak  trspnery gm Wmd                                                        cMv sW m                   of agfomma  of ft  tiws           CNV id moboa even   of  frdcn Cg           eF   f tf  aie
9yevua  of          bieltales Peoviskha     t OM          poIer to       ae n                                                  unkr Rook"  227.                                             weSer Resohnk. 227.
Mescado de         sa*er of dbe MCad do Valores   ft                       by ft CNV
Bod of   ft ).eeedao Is pesa
CNV ha Ake      c         a sbd In cooperLtis WM7 ft Sbock
to s bto   a: a t fusa aSamee af  ck ook. awd ft d*s
ftp hc. ki ba dso darled rols Impsadg hl  cqal
PA1 1OM            CNVs' piseky reguslatwY cefas  ja is   A    mAfly Bp n  daupae.                                                ed  t   p          ft CNV sld adept           l            CV isld nina          t       captai wae with risk-
Repas                    m s to,  I        embm Wi1 s       a     C_apaciy. i    at                                               ibi sde wdi fsk-weittog foulse and mg"                     WliS  fosn d am isctesy  alens And
fit sp bavnbe es, gi s oic_ariw  n            to d sWstpf                                                              ys  and meftd of capal ideqAcy                    of CAital adeSliacy npVnIL
cmv                                                                                                                            CNV WiVl bew bepn                  of t agamizational         CNV wl tow aluevcd sasctry prgess 
Dearlajana                                                                                                                     reYaw ad_ OdtVdek ta  ppnA m       b h ams ft initIal                       of ft _sgasisia  sreview _ S
ph   Of ft _W s bt           poga to he mppotd by            deco     prrm Dtch forms d    Al pha  Of Ft
WarM Roak leemca  masAce.                                     sanis hai  popa  to be ipWp              by Wad
Bank tdRhaalbaane
Tam                 No IaSS Ola WAa  tri, ad ae  atof fo       idl                                                                                                                           M " _ 
ad P               Sabaay a  hI swd                                                                                            Ma



|rW Alas  | Ark Ta f to Due                                           |f|dvn                                                         F7 Fe       RSecond Ft                             a             1         ' Rea
IBw%W*o Fhmd                                     _n _sa"Ma of __m _M __                                                             tl Goement, SICE ad   BaDk woud len    a OAd    MeGioe   IE7   eBi o   AA 
Iprw  to s*mme tsr                review of die             Pfn Fu             R      l          Daim review Of de nam    d it _ 
fmizadom (as apIate) of            M an    sd   a            Cy YInroduce * -                     osbl         e      n
.y Age.- ad                                                                                                                                              _
PBs                 P9 *suifacalina sPBsodology   oal has been omcpleed                                                           PH dtst  regairommm  aobsd.                                    Ps D et        r--Wr ap
A program to nprove bank sapesule  I underway. Ibis prog         is                                           Prp     in beok a evislns me    S&  crtra                     Pros  ir bank snpvi     me    PSAL atom
dcfined der dte apwp d FSAL.
Ps            ns are m                                                                                        M                                                             Main
IntarelA Rate       A progan of evretn  rats oibidesm for mant  buiese   a bees                                                   Plsally-swi lelle        talres rat idabby progans sixwi hav   Fisally aWpoeted wt hu rs.s   eubaid  iamn  abeom
| Reuse            isreodeessi.                                 b_ _ _ _ _ _                                                     bee aended                           bre   bes eae"
NICE                BICE bs boeee       lsed wIth 100 percet Gowetnmn   Ownershp.                                                 DICE's PB aw a and e             pe       eei  be               MCE s bantk   au          ee     poe  sdi          be
cosee  wih Rank guidlI. DICE' adid                           oinisk   wth Dank  itkies  BICE's h          BatEod
peofamo  sdI          be adsbctry to de Ban  DICE             pefonxusculd be atfactoy toe DaBut DICE
oet  excbsively an a scene-tier lstlm.                        operates exels y as a seeed-d   Ilc
Marke Pr          procedrs on DIC  operaed     hae been ac eed. Pa i,                                                of BICE oerations *mId  be markt d_esied.              Prf * of BICE  qerations axxd be  ms             ined.



IBRD 20450
X°'  i   BOLIVIA   -. !       60
I   \  LoGwcm 7N1 7S|'t_                        \/
PARAGUAY  \  /
.   R  &tJ aLTA/              ,                j  ~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L'
4    tTA~~ LTA~/      -0ROB AI
-.-t-T U C U M A N   A C \  /       S m f .de
.: ~~~~~~tUC!JMA N X
&TAMR        / S        ! R SI..N.....      .. 'IQ-
DEL ~ ~? ORRIENTES
tAUOJA~'~      I A  SANTA
FE
_       ~~r (SAN JUs                                          l.A.;
\   )MExSAN JUA    J   D   Vttb  oo\Nec _ot dle
SAN ~ ~ ~~~SNA  P*N
IOA    j   OiO           toSAI
3j                                 .   ( _C __URUGUAY
CHILE                                                               0 s  0
.    4 qMENOOZA LUIS   VflI                  : s
- -ANTA ROSA _   )E
S  |   \      -¢-    ~~.: . PAt AO PA        .  ) LT A 4R 
x,   (   s~~NE QIJEN: \             SI.ANCA C9 
0~~~~  E Z                 .{           
{    d f  {    RIO NEGRO  |                -
, ., } a W 1\ A R ' 'E '-R';G I  N                              I -"'
.U                  CHUBUT                                    m aw-. .o ..
I  D; > (0*gi  0   a~~~~~~~~~~~gve
t ,( {; ,}X*,., XB7-                         Mawr --.-  .u
ProAic bwundaries
-.-hintmffmWa boWaundr
,AlKIANi  S Ai,tAlI'5
'.'t R\,,  .':"._ ''                             '~
.~bffiak~*Iwe.  *            TlERRA 6 L
' ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ LMR t}             2r   40 'C ',- *O
16S 00' 2~0, 200  A00  560
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIS .                           9 1F1t;
-       SF< /<  U 
a,    ? t    ju    .................  ...  .  .        .    .



