Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No. 12328-AR
Report No:        12328 AR
Type: SAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTIN
CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 4, 1994
Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Tbh docment has a reshicted      end may be used by r en only In the perfomune of
their offiil dutes Its content may n otdlwise be dbulosed ihut WoId Iank attllfn



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
US$1.0 = Peso $1.0
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANADE                 Banco Nacional de Desarrollo               National Development Bank
BCRA                   Banco Central de la Republica Argentina    Central Bank of Argentina
BICE                   Banco de Inversi6n y Comercio Exterior     Investment and Trade Bank
BF                     Facilidad de Respaldo Financiero           Backstop Facility
BHN                    Banco Hipotecario Nacional                 National Mortgage Bank
BNA                    Banco de la Naci6n Argentina               Bank of the Argentine Nation
BPBA                   Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires      Bank of the Province of Buenos Aires
BON                    Bonos con Respaldo del Fondo               Bonds under Backstop Commitments
BONEX                  Bonos Externos                             External Bonds
CNAS                   Caja Nacionai de Ahorro y Seguros          National Insurance and Savings Bank
CMTAL                  Prestamo de Asistencia T6cnica al          Capital Market Technical Assistance
Desarrollo del Mercado de Capitales       Loan
CNV                    Comisi6n Nacional de Valores               National Securities Commission
CPI                    Indice de Precios al Consumidor            Consumer Price Index
FON                    Bonos Adquiridos por el Fondo              Bonds purchased by Backstop Fund
Fl                     InstitucionFinanciera                      Financial Institution
GDP                    Producto Interno Bruto                     Gross Domestic Product
FSAL                   Prestamo Sectorial Financiero              Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
INDER                  Instituto Nacional de Reaseguro            National Reinsurance Institute
LFE                    Ley de Entidades Financieras               Law of Financial Entities
ON                     Obligaci6n Negociable                      Negotiable Obligation
OTC                    Mercado Extrabursatil                      Over-the-Counter Market
PAYG                   Pago por Sistema de Reparto                Pay-as-you-go
PB                     Banco Participante                         Participating Bank
PE                     Empresa Publica                            Public Enterprise
SCL                    Prestamo en Moneda Unica                   Single Currency Loan
TEL                    Pr6stamo a Termino Elegible                Term Eligible Loan



JO! O"ITI     115 ONLY
ARGENTINA
CAPITAL MARKEr DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contnts
Loan and Proect Summary  ............................. -i-
I. INTRODUCTION              ...............................  1
II. RECFNT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  AND PROSPECTS....  2
Background (2); Macroeconomic Consodation in 1991-93 (2);
Medium Teim Oudook (4); xermnl Financing Requirements
(5); Economic Rik (6)
m. THE CAPITAL MARKET DEVEOPMENT PROGRAM ...... 7
Background(7); Ren Developmen  and Poficies (11)
IV. THEPROPOSED OPERATION ...................... 27
Bank Group Assistance an Satwy (27); Lessons Learned
(28); Project Backgroud (30); Projec Objedives (31); Projea
Summay (32); Loan AMOUnt (33); Project mplnaon
(35); Procrement (55); Envionmental Safeguards,(56);
Disbuseme   (56); Monioring, Reprt, and Auditing (57);
Loan Supervision and Evaluation (58); Benefi and Risks (59)
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOM04ENDATION ............... 60
Agreemes (60);Rw ndadon(62)
ANNEIES ............            .......................... 63
A. Key Macroeconomic Indicato   (64); B. Condidons of
Effectiveness ad Review Pauses 65); C. Capital Market
Regulatory Framework (67); D. Summary of Market
Charactrisi  (74); E. Financiaad Capi Market
Developmfnt Data (76); F. Legal Aspects of the Backstop
Facility (83); 0. Backstop Fund Projections (101); H.
Supervision Plan (108)
This veport is based on the fiding of a World Bank appraisal mission tat
visited Argentina hi August 1993. The mission consisted of Messrs.Mmes.
Maurio Camizosa (mion leader), Pa  Meo, and Yavuz Boray (LA4TF);
Gary Perlin, Diane McNaughto, and Robert Pardy (FSD); Carlos Betao
(LEGLA); David Femira (LGMN/COF); Hemant Shah (LATAD), Denis
Sullivan, Edwin Wiliamon, German Feffrzz, Caroline Ban, a
George Wilson (consultan).
This dacument ha a gesut   distibution ud may   ud by recpue nt* o     tbe    ane
of their oMcW dutes Its con_tnt my not olthwW iseb  dies without Wodd Dank athizak



-i-
ARtGENTINA
AUUL MARKE DEVINENT PROJECT
L and snf &9MU
hKrQNm::               Argenie Republic.
ERGO= MEW             The Fund, an Independent corpation to be
estblished by the Government. The financial
manager of the Fund would be an international
financial instion with a proven  ccessful
record. The Banco de Iversi6n v Comercio
Exdrll3IC), a Goverment-owned second-tier
bank, would perform adminstive and oversight
functins.
3 S:achnim             Prime-rated commercial banks, medium and sma
private entprises in all sectors, and buyers of
rew commercial or residential buildings.
US$500 minion.
Im.                    US dollar, single-currency loan, repayable over 15
years at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based variable
itoest rate for US dollar, single-currency loans.
Grace period: 7 years.
The Argentn Republic would ontend the procseed
of the Bank loan to the Fund. . The Fund would
implement a Backstop Facility (BF) that would
offer prime-rated banks the option to sell to the
Fund medium-term US dola-denominaed bonds
issued to roll over prior dollar-denominated bonds
that bans had issued to support their longer tem
loans for producdve purposes.
Olher FE_dnp          A companion Capital Market Development
Technical Assistane Loan (CMTAL) would
provide  lemey support (see D d s
below) in the amount of US$8.5 mllion
equivalent. 1DB has approved a credit line in the
amount of US$300 milLion for productive
purposes, that will be cofinanced by the Export-
Import Bank of Japan in an equivalent amouwt.



The prosed operation aims to accelerate capital
maret development to help Argentina meet
growing investment demand.
The operation includes the Backstop Facility (see
Qp.ndhing), and an agreed policy and insdtitional
develop;ent program. The Bacop Faoi
would support long-term lending for productive
purposes, by enasring liquidity to bans in the
event of bond market disruptions. An agreed
policy and institutional developmet program,
iuding macroeconomic stability, frey
determined interest rates, the removal of eisting
inerest rate subsidies, and strgened capital
market regulation, supervsion and enforcement,
would also help inrease market confidence.
Pmgress in the agreed policy-d institutional
development program would be reviewed during
tWo pauses in cmtes, to be imlemented
after 30 percent and 60 percent of the loan has
been committed or after 18 and 36 months of
effectiveness, whichever comes first. The
accompanying CMTAL would help finane
iprovements in capital mariet spervision and
relaon; training of commercial bans' staff in
project financing; and miplemention and
operation of the new, reformed pension system.
The main benefit of the project world be
develoepment of the capital mariet, including
increased availability of long term financing for
private sector investent, longer bond maturties,
developmen of rating agencies, increased liquidity
of the bond maket, and inproved quality of
commercial banks.
The main      are resumption of sustand
macroeconmic instbilitb, including further sain
on the baidg system; extended govermen
interventions to lower inrest rates; weak prgress
i bank supervision; weak demand for the
Backstop Facility; and non-development of BICE.
I    CoW    The total amount of bank bond issues that the
Backstop Faciliy would upport over the life of-



the Bank loan depends on the matuites of fte
bacdsopped bonds and the perentg of backstop
conm mtts exercised by banks. The longer the
maturities and the igher the percentage of total
bonds sold to the Fund, the lower the amount of
bond issues that the Fund would be abie to
support.
* a:        Not applicable. Financing of bond purchas
would nmteralize only in the event of a poss%ble
fiancial disruption or market developments that
undermined a PB's ability to rollover its bonds at a
rate below the backstop price.
of 1             Not Applicable.
t        Not Applicable.



ABIGE4MNA
CAEl!TA MARNEI DEVEI4Oa PRQJEC
STAFF APPRAISAL RET
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Goverment of Argentina has undeaken a major reform of
economic policy aimed at price stability and sustined eonmic growth.
Measures to fos the state on core public fucions and raisqe the efficiency
of revenue mobilization bave been essental for improving the fiscal
findamentals. Trade liberalization and the deregulation of domestic markets
have improved economic efficiency. These refoms bave been stongly
encouraged and supported by the World Bank.
1.2   Complementg earlier public sector reforms, the Bank extended two
Public Entrprise Reform Adjustment Loans and a Public Sector Reform
Lon (1991-92) along with coplemen xy tnical assistance loans (1991).
The Government is now in the process of reducig the role of public bans
and            private banks. To support these reforms the RBank
approvQ the Financial Sector Adjustent Loan (FSAL) in February 1993.
urthrmore, the Government is enoraging the growth of private scurities
markets to help muster the large amount of medium and long term financial
tesources needed to finane investnent. The timing is now propitious for
securities market development becase the economy has become more stable.
1.3 This report proposes a capital market development project that would
help provide tborm finance frm private sources. The loan, in a proposed
amount of US$500 million, would suport a bactop facility (BP) that would
offer prime-rated banks the option to seil to the BF mediun-term US dollar-
denominated bonds which would be issued for the pupose of roilig over
prior doilar-denominated bonds hat those banks had issed to support their
longer term loans for productive purposes. A policy and instional
development program agreed between the Govemment and the Bank would
help increase market confidence. A complemeay  chnical assistance loan
would finace improvements in capital maret supervision and regulation,
including enfocem; training of commercial bans to undertake project
fianing; and impleation of the new, recently approved pension system.
These would help improve the policy framework for the prposed project.



2
2.1 Upon taking office during the July 1989 hyperinflation, the Menem
Govenment cognized that reversing Argentn's long-standing economic
decline rquired structural reforms to eliminate the chronic fiscal deficits that
were driving inflation. The Goveniment launched reforms in federal tax
policy and administation, and undertook expenditure reductions that
improved the overall public sector primary budget from a deficit of 4.4
percent of GDP in 1988 to a deficit of 1.6 percent of GDP by 1990. The
Centrl Bank's large quasi-fiscal deficit was elhimnated, ending the
destabilizing practice of Cental Bank money creaton to cover its own
interest losses on massive short-term debt. Sales of public enteprise assets
and cocessions during 1990/91 produced cash rceipts of about US$600
million and lowered external debt by about-US$7 bilion, while reducing
future ubsidies and creting new tax tevenm. Major privatizations and
trade liberalization signalled a new development strategy.' With ese
reforms, the economy became fundamlly much sounder by the end of
1990, but preses on the exchange rate and a short burst of renewed
inflation led to a new stabion effort as well as a new economic team.
2.2   The new stabilization progm that began in February 1991 intrduced
tax and revenue measures tht raised the operational primary supls to a
level pemting debt service obligations to be met withut resort to inflation.
The Converibility, Law of April 1991 legally fixed the peso/dollar exchange
rat and required the Cental Bank's moety liabilities to be at least
matched by its international reserves, thereby preventig the use of monetary
emission to fmance the public sactor. Furher trade liberaliaton and-major
domestic deregulation put downward pressure on prices and costs supporting
exchange rate-based disn on. The pri    on program was both'
acceleraed and deepened. Aided by declining foreign ierest rates, tese
policies attcted massive capital inflows and resulted in strog economic
recovery and a dramatic fial in domestic iee  rates. Higher private capital-
inflows in 1991 financed a US$4 billion rise in imports and an increase of
US$2.8 billion in liquid reserves. Consumer price inflation came down to
83.9 percent in 1991 and 17.6 percent in 1992. Intrest rates on fixed-term
deposits declined similarly to 78 percent in 1991 and 11.4 percent in 1992.



3
Led by consmpdon, GDP grew by 8.9 percent In 1991 and 8.7 percent in
1992.
2.3   The strucural and stabilization policies indicated above were
undertaken by the Government under a set of Bank adjustment and technical
assistce operations. In March 1992, agreeme  was reached with the IMF
on a three-year EFF program. The Goverment complied with all
condtionality under the Bank's Public Euterprie Reform Adjustment Loan
(February 1991) and Public Sector Reform Loan (July 1991). Fis-al
performance in 1992 exceeded ErP targets, and privatizadons pushed the
pimary surplus to 2.2 percent of GDP in 1992. In the first semster of
1993, EFF conditions were met. Most targets-international reserves and
foreign debt-were met by wide margins, but the fical perform=ce was
slightly below program,- about US$34 million, as the shortfah in tax revenues
(partly :sociated with tax reductions) was not quite fully offset by cost in
expendiures on pensions and transfers, reduced hinerest outlays, and an
improved peformance of public eeprises. However, revenues have
pertformed more strongly receny and eenditues coninue to be contolled
through strict cash management.
2.4   During 1993~ the Govermment furfter enhaned confidence by
providing a longer term fiamework for public finances. The external debt
agreement with commercial crditors, signed on April 7,1993, ends the
accuulation of arrears, regularizes existng arrears, reduces interest
obligations from a projected US$2-3 billion to US$1.4-1.6 billion in the
Witial years, and sharply limits interest obligations ii intrational rates rise.
The succesfl privatizadon of the state-owned oil company (YPF) enabled
the Federal Government to exnuis  debt obligations to pensioners (about
US$2.7 billion) and to oil-producing provinces (about US$1.2 billion). The
liquidity injection from abroad (US$2 billion) was largely sterilized throgh a
3 percenage point mcrease in reserve requrements in mid-August. On
August 16, 1993, the Federal Govement, the Federl Capits1, and (16 out
of 23) provincial governments amnaed a new revenue sharing agreement
thrugh June 1995-the Pacto Fucat-aimecd at s  g   the fiscal
adjustment in provinces, and at eliminating distortionaiy provincil taxes. in
retn, the national goverment agreed to ego US$0.9 billion in provincial
debt, and to assume responsibilty for the provincial social security systems.
Fmally, on-Septembe 23, 1993, the Senate passed the pension security
reform law. The law establishes a mixed system of mandatory pension
insurac:  a public pay-s-you-go (PAYG) scheme offering a uniform basic
pension, and a private funded scheme offeing benefits in proportion to
idividual contributions and the investment performance of the respecdve
pension fund. However, workers may opt for additional PAYG insurance
intad of fund memberhp. The law also obliges the state-owned Banco de



4
la Naci6n to offer a pension fund with guaranteed remns m both pesos and
dollars and a subsidy component through prohibition of a management fee. It
is expected tht the guarante and subsidy componet-which could adversely
affect prvate fuds- wmi be dealt with saisfactorily through new conrective
legisltion.
2.5   The large capital inflows have produced a real appreciadon of the
peso of about 30 percent since the beginnin of the stabilization program, but
between a third to a half of the adverse impact on competidveness may have
been offset by the elimination of export taxes in 1991 and other meaes
described below. The curt account deficit reached US$8.3 billion in
1992, after a US$1.8 billion surplus in 1990 and a US$2.8 billion deficit in
1991. In late October 1992, the Government inreased indirect tax
imbusments for exports from an average of 8 percent to 13 percent and
raised import tarifs-incling ad valorem tariffs and a flat statstcs tax-
from an average of 14.8 percent to 19.8 percent while also reducing taiff
iseion. RDuctions im fuel taxes futhe improved the competitiveness of
domestic producers. In April and May 1993, to stimulat nveseme  the
G3overmment anounced a package of measures to reduc the costs of capital
goods (dqty free capital goods imports and tax rebates for domestic capital
goods prdues) and lower borrowing rates for small and medium industry
(paras. 3.25-3.26). During 1993, the Government reintduced for one year
limited quanttatve restrictions for paper and footwear and taiff surcharges
on wool clothing ipor. Iln mid-August 1993, stascal import duties on
agritural and indstial inputs wer reduced from 10 percent to 3 percen
Also, the Govenment announced a new set of measures designed to alleviate
pressure on the tadeable sectors from the appreciation of the real excne
rate, incluing the elimination of the gross asset tax for agriculture and
industry and of prepayments agait VAT for the agricultural sector.
M_M Term  ok
2.6   The Govemene's main macroeconomic objective is -to achieve a
long-tem anna growth inEceedg 5 percent, with epanding employment
and inion held to inteatonal rates. In the period June-September 1993,
the analzed rate of consumer prices inflation fell to less tan 5 percent,
and real GDP growth for 1993 is projected at about 6 percent. The primary
fiscal surphs before privatization is projected to increase from US$3.0
billion in 1992 to about US$4.5 billion in 1993, about 1.7 percent of GDP
(Amex A). This level wold suffice to service interest payment and to
obviate the need for a future inflation tax, given foreseeable foreig and
domestic borrowing. ITe Government anticipates that its monetary and



ce poliies Wi contiu to be disciplitod by th Convertibility
Law ad a now Centr Bank Cater. A dght fisal stance, continui
Import compediton, and product and factor market derguation would drive
domestic inflth i to tnteraonal rates.
2.7   The Governme  Is relying on private capital inflows and increased
private domestic savings to finance Invem. The autdh es view the
estimated US$50460 billion in private savis of AtgeztI reside  held
abroad as a reliable source of tWure capital ifw, altho    peraps  owing
in 1993. Futhermore, the Govermt anticipates that the trade balace w1il
improe progsvely blning in 1994, in rspoe   to condnued tight fiscal
policy and furtier actions now ulderway to mahe te economy more
compet-ve, ichxding deregultio measures, labor reform (sent to
Congress), iNestm  in umn capital, m! tax poliy measures. The
Govermnt has recenty asd itentiOn to reduce emloyer payroll
taxes, curreny equa to 33 percent of gos wages, in povinces that carry.
out tax reform. Th authorities epe  that contined p v    owth in
the domestic inusl sector and lower labor costs will improve t  trade
balane. They alo expect mproved tax collectio'to compensate for the
fisa costs of the above measures.
2.8   Ssb y of the adjustmen prom and a spportive Inteatonal
envi   n are the key variables in Argnias effort to meet its extrnl
financing requirm s During. 1993, sWt  economic perfome and the
debt reduction opeaton opened Argenta's doors to the  W I
financial marmt; however, access to 8th   mabhts nd borowing tm   stil
remain lmited.
2.9   The adjustment of the public sctor has pr vel shifed the needs
of extenal finanng from the public to the pvate sector. Therefore,
finawcing of the balace of payments prnipa  will be a function of desred
saving and investmt in the prvat secor. Improved ineatoal financing
of priv  invesmet, the remwed abt  tO rol-over mauring intnatona
obligations, and growing foreig direct invstme  are expected to moderate
the apected slowdown in the exceptional flow of  ivi a.Io proceds from
abroad observed in, te last three years, as the   progam  nears its
compledon. In tu, the investment oouni  creaed by this
prfivatiation program, as well as pottl repatiation of eaings of foreign-
hdd private assets, will be addial factors contributg to the canging
nature of capital inflows to Ageina. The Wodd Bank and IDB will be



6
Inresing their exposnre in Argentina, but not substantially so after te M-
1990s. The IDE's exposure wi likely decline after the exphation of th
2.10  It is likely that with consistent macroecoomic policies, a sable
lntenatial environment, and the continu  financial asiae of
mullaterl organizations, Argentina's extnal financing rqu   for
sustainable growth could be met.
Ea_MI RlSk
2.11 A key risk for the Argentine economy is ftat if capital flows taper
oft, output growth could decline as domestic intrest rates rise and redtions
become necesury in import volumes and prices of non-traded goods and
assets. Furthermore, a worseng macroeconomc pice or poliicl ee
ud trigge a speculafive attack on the peso. With a udden cycle of
demonetizaion, very high interest rates and deep recession, the Governmen
might be forced to choose between: (i) providing liquidt  to prvnt th
colpe of the facial systm, thereby puFtt  pressue on the exohange
rate; and (ii) leting financial institutions collapse with some depositr
sRIn losses. Slower growth would create added fiscl pressure. As
evenues fall and the interest bil rises, it would be more diffl to achiei.
the projected pardal rollover of the Government's domestic debt-rdt
bondhlders.
2.12  The probabilit of these adverse events declines as the  _ns
of publc finnce improve. The past reforms   of the public sector, which have
nmustered considerable public support, anchor stabiltio and are not likely
to be reversed. Furtemo, the fill coverage of the monety base by
reserves tends to deter specultve attacks on the peso.
2.13  The proposed Fund will benefit from reduced cuency ridsk as a remt
of borrowing on single currency loan (SCL) terms in US dollars (para. 4.21).
All of its revenues are expected to be US dollars. Thus, the Fud will be
able to match the curncy of its revenues and expenses and avoid the
curreny risk it would have faced from curnrncy pool loan terms. The
IUBOR intr  rate basis of SCLs also allows the Fund to reduce part of it
inres rate risk, since is interest ome fom ptcipatig bank bonds wil
be LIBOR-based.



7
m.   CAPfAL hUTW DOMARNM PROGRA
3.1   There is an urgent need to accelerate the development of Argenin's
secunrities markets. With the size of the public sector shatply reduced,
foreign and domestic trade liberalized, and tax and subsidy distorons abo
reduced, private invesment demand is expected to grow lapily. Viualy
all of Argentina's national power, telecommuncatons, gas, water, steel,
chemicals, and petroleum industries -- heretofore ste-owned - are now in
private bands. So are many in s          and trsport activities-por,ts
airlines, railways, and highways. Many other firms are also eager to te
advantage of the strgthened macroeconomic frmework and expand their
activities. A study by a respected Argentine research ititue  estmas that
the newly piivatized PEs alone will need over US$3 billon yeary in low
term funds if their investment reuireme  are to be met A recet survey
of 250 well-known enterprises estimates an annual growth rate of 19 percent
in private busine  investment over the nxt five years. In fact, privae
investment increased by 32 percent and 37 percet in 1991 and 1992
respectively.
3.2    andal            Argentne financial and capital madre were
undermined by the poor economic policies of the previous four decades.
High inflation and macroeconomic instabily decreased resource
mobilization, shortened terms of financial in, and incea   nominal
and real interest rates. Public sector borowing, high taxes on tading -4
prva  securities, controlled interest rates and subsidized credit, governmen
conicaton of savings accounts, government monopoly of pension insuranoe
and of all reinsrnce, and restrictions on the allocation of inves_mt fund
portfolios further discoumaged development of the capital market. Diected
and subsidized credit and distorted economic incives contriutd to
misallocation of finanial resurces, increased freely detemined real interest
rates, and decreased portfolio quality.  sIe  bfa ktcy protecdon
through Ceal Bank icJiscounts, lack of profit-making incentives, and
governmen interference in credit decisions prevented public banks (which
the banking system) from oprtg soundly and efficinty. There
was an inordine physical expansion of banks to capture the inflation tax for
ther owners. Finally, weak regulation and enforcement of capital adequacy
and provisioning requirements, parcularly with regard to public bank, also
contributed to the 4eclining health of the banking sector, leadig to diste
borrowing and le .
3.3  I)omstiMbicR q           ob  Domestic resoure mobilization
and private sector finance sffered as a result of these policies. Finani
savings in Argentina have been held primarily in forced plac_me  of



8
govenme  bonds, curreny, and bank depst. As of March 1992, there
were some US$6.3 bilion in Government bonds OU ht in the domestic
markt (2.8 percent of GDP). Currency and deposits (M2) rached its lowest
point ever, approaching 5 percen of GDP (old National Acos) in 1990
down from above 40 percent in the early 1940s and from 20 percent in the
mid-1970s (see Annex E). This decline is lnked to higher inflaton,
increased uncertint of domestic asset yields, and the desire to retain
finaial assets abroad. Nominal intrest rates on domestic currey asset
soared frequeny, reflecting the periodic syrocketing of inflatony
expeaons. For example, freely determined rates on acceptances, whicb
remaind low and fairly stable at a monthly level of aroui 2 percen or less
up to 1974, fluctuated between 2 percent and 137 percent between 1975 and
1990. Real int    rates on domestic currency asset also showed instbiW
in the wake of sccessive speculaion for and agaist the domestic curr 'y
and unexpected swigs in iaon. Ex-post monthy real rates on
accptances, hovering within -S pecen to 5 percent before 1975, fluctuated
between -27 percent and 7 pet   between 1975 and 1990.
3.4  l)winding resource mobilization reduced the amount of bank credit
from around 40 percent of GDP in the early 1940s to 10 percent of GDP in
1989. About half of this redit went to the public sector. As a result, the
role of bank in private financing has been very limited, accounting for less
than 10 percent of businss fae. Furtermore, increased unrainty of
asset yields also led to declning martuities of domestic financial inumet,
from about three months to about a week, and holdings of medium- or long-
term priae bonds were viuly nil. Long-em cororate finance relied
chiefly on shares held by controHlig shareholders.
3.5    blk aqk. Historically, commeial banking has been domiated
by pIorly performing public bak. While public commeril ban  number
only 36 (7 national, 26 provincial, and 3   ipal -22 percent of the total
of 164 bak in the coutry), they provide the major share of bank credit
(about 61 percent of total credit), raising a sipificant share of deposits
(about 55 pert), owning 45 percet  of all brancies and employing 51
percent of all bank staff. The share of dqpsits at public bans increased
from 40 percent to 60 percent during the 1988-90 period due to high iterest
rates paid to obtain resour  for the public sector.
3.6   The public banks' consistent puit of objectives ,ter than profit
maximiion, includig financig of the public sector, dictdon of cedit and
disbuion of subsidies, led to low-quality loan portfolios, dependene on
the Centmal Bank, and losses or low profitability. Non-performing loan
portfolios (carera      of naional public banks are estmated at 33
percent of the totl portfolio, even tugh lending to the public sector, which
amounts to 29 percen of the tot4, is not included in low quality portfoios.
Similarly, provincial banks have 34 percent of their portfolios in low qualit
loans and 23 percent in lending to the public sector. Cenal Bank



9
rediscunts to national and provincial public banks are 27 percent and 33
percent of deposits, rsetvely. Poor financial maagement of public bank
became a burden to the Cental Bank, which iwured subsal losses
because its Interst income was below its interest costs and portfolio losses
(the quasi-fiscal deficit). Low profitbi in public bank  sulted from
iterest rate subsidies, poor portfolio performance, and bigh operating costs.
Public bank employees compise about 51 perce of total bank employment,
and labor costs at naoal ad provincial public ban  account for 68 percent
and 66 percent of total costs, respectively. In cota, private banis have
non-perfoming portfolios of 5 pet for domestic bank in Buenos Aires,
11 percent for domestic banks outside Buenos Aires and 4 percent for foreign
banks; little funding to the public sector beyond requred reserves; Central
Bank rediscounts of only 3 percent for domesdc banks in Buenos Aires, 1
percent for domestic banks outside Buenos Aires and 2 prcet for foreign
banks; and labor costs of about 53 percent of total costs.
3.7   The nationally-owned Banco de l Naci6n Arentn (BNA) is by far
the largest bank, with assets of about US$13 billion and about 13 percent of
both domestic ledn and deposis. BNA's chief role was that of providing
liquidty and credit to the public sector (including public e iss): 70
prcent of total assets are direted to the public sector. Furtemore, BNA
bas been required to act as tax and payroll deposioy, undertak emegeny
lndig and serve as mardet leader for reducmg ierest rates. BNA had
deterioated into a vast bureaucracy with an antiquated organizaion and
systems and low proctvity in many of its branches, which has led to high
opeao  costs. As a rIet, BNA's return on capital has been low.
3.8   Banco Hipotecario Nacional (BN), an imporant pilar of the
Government's housing programs since fte 1940s, genally provided housing
and consruction credit to middle-income households. High inlation and low
deposit mobilization caused BHN to depend on Central Bank loans.
Increasing emphasis on social concet  led to portfolio yields below funding
costs, substandrd collectou performance and high opertig costs.
Insolvency set in during 1988/89.
3.9   Baco Nacionl de Desarmollo (BANADE) had been coeated in the
1940s to provide Argenine idustry with long-term loans. BANADE was
subject to growing government interferene that led to poor credit policies,
lax loan colection, corruption, and a fiancial position beyond re1tiea.
3.10 Caja Naciona de Ahorro y Seguro was created in 1915 as a postal
savinpg Insttuion, but has been providng both banking and i e
seies. Its banking opeatons have been performig poorly on account of
large lending to govertmt and public emerprises. In conast, it insurce



10
oprations were profitable, favored by a large market sbare (13 percent) and
its ability to place inswance con   directly witout brokers.
3.11  Provincial banks (30 in total) account for about 26 pern of total
assets of the banicng system. The largest provincal bank is Banco de la
Provincia de Buenos Aires (BPBA), Argentina's oldest commcial bank and
the second largest wift 330 branches and 15,000 employees. Generally, the
fincial performace of provincal banks has been poor, chiefly as a result
of their primay mandate to lend to provincial treasures and entpriws
wthout due regard for bang principles. Pessured by the need to fund
provincial finances ad low deposit mobilzation, many provicial banks
became highly dependent on Cental Bank rediscouns to continue their
operatons. Ihe Central Bank, in turn, encountered difficulties in recovering
tho  rediscounts. Provincial constitons or laws dictag the provinial
banks' lending focus, their choice or removal of management, and merger or
closure undermined the Cental Baks enforcement actions and collection
efforts.
3.12  Prhrt-        Between 1950 and 1985, private bank employment
tripled wbile real deposits s8td. Excessive physil expaon, icluding
over-branchig, was encouaged by subsidized Central Bank credit,
controled intrest rates on deposits, and profits from the iflton tax.
Furtemore, investors were attracted to the banking sector by the Cetral
Bank's 100 perent deposit guarantee regime, which encouraged a high 
degree of ierlocking ownership with non-finanial fims and banks, as well
as excessive risk-taking.
3.13 In the 1980s, -several institutions went bankrupt. Some bankuptcies
were the result of portfolio hpairmet that originated in relative pnce
changes. Several bankrupties were probably fradulent, and thus took
advantage of deposit insurance and deaulted on Cental Bank rediscounts.
During the late 1980s, hbalized inte    rates, the redction of subsidized
credits, incesed taxaon through non-remunerated reserve requirements,
and a falling demand for liquid assets, reduced the  centives for further
baking growth. The number of private band    sed from 179 to 141
during 1980"89, and employment at those bans declined slihly from
66,000 to 64,000.
3.14             Mat&  The crkical capital market issue is the limited
mobiization of long term resourc  (size and instuments) from private
imveors. The capital marikt in Argentina has been dominated by
government bonds. The chronic public sector deficits icreased the volume
of public dollar bonds ou&tng fom US$0.3 billion in 1985 to US$10
billion in 1991. Maret transactions in public bonds at the Buenos Aires



11
Stock  change amouned to US$1 bilion in 1990. The mai Instrument has
been the BONEX, a dollar demin  govnment bond that partly
stmmed from the Govemn's confiscation of saving deposits in 1990. In
contrast, equity market        and trading mounted to only US$3.3
billion and US$0.8 billion in 1990, respectvely - small measue for a
country with a GDP of US$140 billion. The amount of private coiporat
bonds issued domestically was neggble, as these were priced out of the
market by prohibitive tsaction taxes.
3.15 In addition to the legacy of macroeconomic instability, which still
feeds fears of an unexpected revesal of a thus far sueul stabili,
poor mobilizton of long term private resorces has been un ed by (a)
the lack of insttutional investors with sources of contactual savings for long
term investmet; and (b) shtings of the reglatory framework of the
capital maret. The main gap in istitutional inveting has been the
Goverment's monopoly of pension iuance. Following the extnction of
previous public pension fund savings, the public pension syem opeated on
a pay-as-you-go basis since 1968. Anther importat gap was a consaint on
non-equity invesments by investment funds.
3.16  Finally, the regulo  fmeworlk remains undeveloped.
Shortnomings include: (a) lack of enforcement capacity due to weak
legition with regad to the Stock Exches; (b) lack of capital adequacy
rues for capial markt intemediaries; and (c) lack of suervisory capaciy
due to weak developmet of the supervisoy body. These sbortcomings
undermine the degee of confidee that is required for the deveo n of
bond and equ  markets.
Recent lloDmem md 1 'i 
3.17  The present government has been  ssing the long-standing legacy
of poor policies. Moderate inflation steming from the ma - -
policies discussed earlier is rencing the unainty of real asset yields, and
treby reving the demise of resource mobiliztion. Strong icome
growh is futer icsing the demand for fncial assets. Inflation
declined frm 1,344 percent (CPI) in 1990 to about 8 percent in 1993, and
re  growth inreased from 0.4 prent in 1990 to 8.9 percent, 8.7 peen,
and 5.0 percent in 1991-93. With greater inerest rate stability, M2
increased from an average of 3 percent of GDP (new National Acus,
which raised measued GDP by 48 perce  in 1990) in 1990 to 11 percent in
1993. D)eposits with mauriies of one month or more increased from 3
percent of totaldeposits in the aftermath of the BONEX conversion (March



12
1990) to 46 percent at the end of 1992. Outstanding bank credit to the
private sector has also increased, from 5 percent of GDP in 1989 to 12
percent in 1992. Maitnance of macroeconomic stability and its policy
hmdamentals would be a condidon of effectiveness and of renwe
commitments under two formal rviews of the operation.  he Bank would
tin the   t to suspend commitments to disburse at any time if
raacroeconomic instability resumedA'
3.18 In addition, following the tax exemptions on private corporate bonds
introduced in 1989, several banks and corporations have issued corporate
bonds, chiefly US dollar denominated, increasing the outsding volume
from zero in 1989 to about US$4.1 billion by mid-1992. CNV approvals for
publicly offered bond issues amounted to US$3.8 billion and $4.6 billion in
1991 and 1992, respectively. These instruments are mainly held by
corporate and baning institutions, and by intemational investors. They are
not yet actively traded in domestic markets. Fixed annual intest rates have
been as low as 9 percent and sizes of individual issues have been as high as
US$100 million. New equity issues on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange
grew from just US$16 million in 1989 to US$116 million in 1990, and to
US$355 million in 1991. Moreover equity market capitalization, which stood
at US$2.9 billion in 1989, reached US$25 billion by June 1992. The
prvatzation process itself is also giving rise to major market offerigs; some
30 percent of equities market apialon is accounted for by the share
plcement of the northen and southen telephone companies.
3.19 In spite of these changes, financial deepening is stil much below
enational standards. With susained stability, Argetina can expect a
further increase in the ratio of M2 to GDP to around 30 percent in the
medium tum. A more difficult chaUenge is to increase the demand for
medium and long term bonds and perhaps for equity shares as well. It is
genalUy acknowledged that there is a latent supply of medium and long term
securities that has not developed due to lack of demand. The cited incrase
in private business investment plans indicates the latent supply of secuties.
Lack of demand for long term securities is tantmount to saying that the
yields required by investors are still far above the rate of return on capital.
The high reqired yields have been drven by policy-induced risks and
uncerainties, transaction costS, lack of investor proctdon, and constraints on
the developmen of insdtutional investors. The financial and capital market
I/Compliance with the 3-year fiscal and exnal financing program agreed with the IMP and
the Bank would satsfy this condition. Following expiration of the program (March 1995),
this condtion would require the prmary operational surplus to exceed the interest obligations
of the nonfinancial public sector.



13
policies will further improve market performanoe to help meet the economy's
growing term fiancing needs.
3.20  IXpros  the    b                of the lg  Sg
Banking policies have pdmarily sougtk to s btengte the financial sounll S
of the ban   system and thereby reduce the Govement's exposure to
losses stemming from bank failures. The Convertiblt  Law, te Central
Bank chartr, downsizing and cost reductions in public banks, and stronger
reguation, supervision and enforcement of capital and provisioning
requem, and improved bank disclose, will help reduce the moral
zard to the goverment smming from bank failr. Furdher protection
agaist losses from bank fiures wil result from the sale or liquidation of
some public bank. These polcies have been Supported by Bank loans,
including the Public Sector Refbtm Adjustment Lo, the Public Sectr
Reform Technical Assistance Lon, and the PSAL.
3.21  BANADE has now been closed, and BNA acts as a facial age  to
liquidat its assets. BHN bas been converted into a second-tier bank. Its
lending will be priced to cover fnding costs, the cost of operations md a
positive return on capital. Cala Naion  de MM  Y Sus is bing
privatizd  and the sale of the majority of shares  expected in early 1994.
3.22 To maintain financial flexbility and be able to meet unexpected
finial needs until the Govemment's stniura reform program is
substanally completed, the Govement wishes to retain full control over
BNA. At the same time, the Governmen is aware of BNA's inefficiencies
and is supporting its raionalizon. It has compled inial measures- most
importan y, the number of staff has been reduced from about 18,000 to
14,000 via an early retiment program, geneting operating savings of
about US$50 million per year. On-going measures ilude improved
contrting procedures, oinal rel             and, most importny,
negotiation of new incentive-based compensation sches for BNA staff. To
strengthn f er ficial discipline, BNA has (under the PSAL condions)
dind financial performance staUdards and given priority to the private
sector. Its loans to the public sector declined from 17 percent of total credit
in 1991 to 7 percent of total credit in 1993.
3.23  Laceng direct jurisdiction, the Govrmen's overall stategy in
dealing with the provincial banks has been to tighten financial sndads and
supervisory prese tough a r     izon of their relationship with the
Cental Bank and the S            of Banks and to limit their exosure to
their rective Govenms. Further, provial banks have not received
Cenral Bank rediscounts for purposes other than short-term liqidity needs.
Provincial bans are also being required by the Cental Bank to adhere



14
gradualy to the same banlking ratons as the private commercial banks.
This pressr is generating t       and privadzadon of several bank
(Cordoba, Mendoza, San Luis, Salta, Entre Rios, Ch3ibut, and Misiones). A
forthming Provincial Reform Adjustment Loan will spport a series of
provincial public sector reforms aimed at enhancing the strength of provincial
fnances and supporting fr     es   g of provicial ban.
3.24  Adjusm  in the private banking system contued during 1989-92.
rj number of private banks dclined from 141 to 128 and employment
dopped from 64,000 to 58,000. Overall, private ban  have performed
better than public banks. Non-perfomn loans amounted to about 7 peet
of the total in 1991, far less than in public banks (S0 percent). Private
commercial bans had to absorb the shock of the Jamna  1990 conversion of
savings deposits into public bonds, and hold large vohlmes of Trasury
obligations created in the wake of that conversion. More recendy, they have
had to adapt to lower inflation rats and lower spreads. Although the private
banking system does not present major risks of failure, one can anticipate
further rationalizion, including mergers and some additional closures.
Furthermore, it is expected that private banks will increasingly lend with
longer terms and with a wider client base. The proposed operation would
help accelera this trend, which would help increase the access to term
fie   by small and medim-sized bushi es.
3.25 Progress in bank regulation and supervision is also belping to icrease
t  health of the bankng system. Under the Finac  Sector Adjustment
Lon, the Ceral Bank sted a program to improve reglations and
sItregihen supervision. To stregtben the focus on capital adequacy, the
Cetal Bank issed new minimum caital rqui s that depend strongly
on the riskine  of the bank, and also iceased proisioIning ri.
To improve inspection, the Ceral Bank issed stringent replations that
increase the aoun     of indendent audtors. Fmaly, the SEF is
undertang an instuational development program to improve its own on-site
and off-site ispection practices. To undertake tis program, the SEF is
receiving assisace from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the US
Ofie of the Comptroller of Curey and working with other local
cnsultants. Improvements in supervision are being comlemented by more
open disclosure rles with regard to the financial condition of banks, which
wiUl make it more difficult for banks to conceal inadequ  levels of
capitlzain
3.26   itet Rte }'ofctes. With the Ceral Bank virtually converted
into a monetary board, the Government itself is interening to restain
interst rates. The Government's key concerns are the high spreads and the
lack of access to credit by small and medium entpriss at reasonable costs.
-                   5  .~~~~~~~.
. \ . 0~~



15
The main  ventions thus far include the following: (a) public bank are
chging a maximum monthy interest rate on V- loans which seems to be
well below rates chargd by private bank; (b) an intrest rate subsidy of four
perentage points which is being auctioned off to the banks offering to charge
the lowest rates on a total of US$1.8 billion of loans for investent (4-year
loan1s of up to US$400,000 per firm), working capita (18-month loans of up
to US$80,000 per firm and two- to fth year loans of up to US$100,000 per
firm), and texnology (three year loans of up to US$40,000 per fim)
benefLitt* from the subsidy; (c) a sbsidy of 30 percent of the interest rate
on US$100 million of BNA 7-year investment loans with an intert rate not
exeeg the pme rate by more than 6 points (individul loans of up to
US$1.0 million); (d) a subsidy of 2 p=erng points on US$150 millon of
BNA export loans with an interest rate below 12 percent; (e) negotiation of a
Saish goverm   credit facility offering subsidized rates to fial
borrowers; and (f) a program to provide ubsidizd credit through BNA to
busin s hiring staff that leave jobs in provincial goven   and thugh
MN for acquitn of housing to those staff that change residence as a
resut of their cbange in employment.
3.27 While the concern with the high level of interest rates is justified, the
recent policy chages may be misguided. With stabilization, monthly
nominal lending rates declined to 2.0 percent-3.0 percent. Tbese lending
rates awe of course much above international levels in US dollars. They are
Partially    ted for by high intrest rates (again by intermational
sandards) paid to depositors (about 0.7 percent-o.8 percent per month)-
which may include country risk and some expecn of devaluation-and
also by excessive seads. Exesve spreads (see Annex E) have been
widely ackowledged to result from high reseve requiements, a low depst
bae, a high budn of the non-performing portfolio, high regulatory costs,
and high risk prmia. None of thes problems is addressed by the policies
described in para. 3.26. In fact those policies run counter to the objective of
achieving capital market development, since the availabilty of cheap official
credit wil discourage borrowers an d banks from tapping the market. 3h
Govenmznt has agreed that it will no renv the proM s described in pars.
3.26 (b) to fd). whic w  be fl commitd by mid-1994. Therefor, the
pRams  wil bave bee fu}lv committed before the proposed loan becomes
oional. Moreover the Government has ageed to noate bilatr
export redit re   lines ( dita y negotiated trancbe wili Spain) at
mark~e rtes to the find borrowers.
3.28  Rebirth of thC  alMNke. In size and importance, the
securities markets have grown dramatically since 1991, although there have
also been dramaic rersals within the period. As an indication of the
d e  of the eesk§ materelative to the economy as a whole, its



16
capiaztion is equal to about 30 percent of GNP (down from a 1992 high of
50 percent). Thicspali   was iniially skewed toward the
telecomunIaions sect beu  of the pivatization of the telephone
company (see Table 1). Recntly, the priva&ion of XRchs
lEmma= Fiscales has added ather impont setr. Because the markt
is so volatile, market cHpitalizrtion inceased fourfold from May 1991 to
May 1992 and dropped by balf in the subequen eight months.
3.29  The seconnation is mirrored in the narrowness of secondary
ading. Daily vohwne is    ately US$8 million but 50 pemen of this
is trig  in only 15 of 170 listed stock. Howver, scondaty tading is
expected to expand with the new privatizations, inluding the sale of
remiing (minort) sbares held by the public sector.
Table 1 - Equiti Market Capitalization By Major Company and Sector
(perce  of total)
July 1993
Companis                          Sectors
YPF                  27           Petroleum        30
Telef. de Arg.       17            Commucain   29          -
Telecom.             12           Holding           9
P.Compan             8             Spare Parts      6
Sevel                3            Baing             6
Astra                2            Food              3
Cia. luter. de Autom    2         Metlic Products  3
Siderca              2            Other Sectors    14
Banco GaUlicia       3
Banco Prances        2
Otlers              22    ,   ,_                        __,
-3.30  The primy and      uay    e  in t          bo    have beee
signficant for a decade or more while te  g   bS marfet is very
small (see Table 2).
3.31  Mutual Punds have not boen a popular investt vehicle due to
deficiencs in the legal frmwork. Some growth is expected following the
passagate  last year of a mutual fuid law. At present, dtere are 40 funds
with total ve  of appoximately US$200 million (down from US$400



17
million in early 1992). They are all open-end funds (i.e., funds issuing new
shares as needed); closed-end funds (i.e., funds with a fixed number of
shares) are expected to develop under the new law.
Table 2 - Public and Private Bonds Market Capitalizaton
- ~~(US$m)
Public                               IS  l      -        -
National, US$ denominated                          26,267
National, local currency denominated                3,290
Provincial, local currency denominated                 52
Total                                              29,609
4,100
3.32  Impoi  the Lel ad Re_ry Frame            k of th CGMl
Markets The Goverment has already impl d key lega and regulatory
reforms to encourage development of the securities markeLt These cbas
are swumarized in Boxes 1 and 2. Taxes on capital market trnscons
(stamp and transfer taxes) am ting to between 3 percent and 4 percent of
the vale of the asset in a rund trip ftansaction (buying and selling) have
been eliminted and trdn fees, which had been formerly set by the stock
exchae , have been liberalized. Taxation of icome from capital gains for
foreign and domestic investors has been eqaized. Mutual funds legislation
was amended to allow for both open and closed funds, to clarify the powers
and respobnibilities of the fund management company, to allow greater
prtfolio diversity (muual funds had to allocate at least 90 pere  of their
portfolios to equity shares), and to improve mutual fimd investor ptction.
Other measures include incentives for capital repriaton; regulton by CNV
of: ftures and options markets, over-the-cmuer makets, pnce movement
limits on stock exchanges, establisnt and operation of securites clearing
and custody companies, strmlined approval processes for public offerigs,
and automatic authorizaton of additioal shar  an debt securities;
establishment of rating        on publicly offered securities; and
stonger reporting, disclosure, and auditing reirements. A summary of the
markets' charcristics to date (Annex D) iates that trading, depository,



I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T



I                   V
. 
II.           A

1K. -V.' .
1111 II''
i
i 
 *1
jUbrft
*                  I    
 '  /
a'.    
 ."
4
o                        
I          C                 I  I          I      Nj
'C.
.,                                              R



20
either contribute 11 percent of ening to an additonal public pemion on a
PAYG basis with promised beneits in strict proportion to contributions; or
save the same amount in one of the penion fiuns (Admistrador de
Pondos de Jubilaciones y Peniones) upplied by the private sector and by
DNA. The pension fund option pears to be more attractive for young and
middleaged workers. The Goverment expects that about 70 percent of
woers will initially choose tis option, with the sbare approaching 100
percen over the next generation. This would initially make some US$2
bilion amnually available for pension fund investments. The allocation of
the  investments in each fund will be subject to the maximum percentges
indicated in Table 3. A shortcoming of the reform is the establishment of a
pesion fund by BNA with highly attractive conditions for its members,
inchding guaranteed returns in both pesos and dollars and a subsidy
comonent through prohibition of a management fee. This would put
privately supplied funds at a serious disadvantage. Draft legislation on the
BNA pension fund recently submitted to Congress may leave only the
gualantee m pesos at the inest rate on BNA savings accounts. The
accompanying  CMTAL will assist in the imlemention of the reform.
3.34  The key remaing canges needed to achieve an increased demand
for long term secrities inchde the passage of legislation to bring the stock
exchange's self reguatory role within tighter bounds, isance of adequate
capital requirements for brokers, and improved regulatory aang     for
the treatment of finacil conglomates.
3.35 The Comsi6n Naciopal de Valores (CNV). The CNV is the
regulatory authority for the securities, fies and options markets. It is
reonsile for the markets, in   i   and instumn  making up the
pimayr and seondary coporate equity and debt markets, the secondary
government debt mart, and the fitures and options markets on these
intuments. It also reglts mutual fund m aagmen companies. It has no
direct  ority over the adoption and enforcement of acc#ou   and auditing
stndards; however, it exercises its authority over the public offering process
and the listing rules of stock exchanges to influence strongly finial
reotn practice.
3.36 ftion and MMervisi of tfie SW&c E&fiage. The Stock
Exchange is a long-established insttion with wide self-regulatory powers
established under Lw. Under Law 17,811 the Excbane alone has the right
to regula  its members - i.e., there is no other enty and exit reuiements
for stock exchange members such as licensing as a broker/dealer imposed by
te CNV and the CNV has no overriding power in relation to broker
disciline or penldties for breaches of the law or stock exchange rules.



21
Breaches of the law and stock exchange rbes may be investgaed by the
CNV but only the Board of the Exchange can impose penalte.
TaWe 3 - Maximum InvestmeM by Peson  A          I_  Funds
InvstmntInstrument           Maximum
a.    National Publi Bonds            50%
b.    Provincial and Municipal Public
bonds                         ,30%
c.    Corporate Bonds, Debetres,
and other Debt instrments
authorzed for public offern by
CNV with  terms t maturit of
two years or more              40%
d.    Corporate Bonds, Debentures,
and other Debt instunts
audrized for public offeing by
'NV with terms to maturi.y
below two year                 20%
e.    Convertible Bonds authrized for
publc offeing by CNV           40%
f.    Convertible bonds auorized for
public offering by CNV and
issued by privadzed enterprises    20%
g. 8   hnme Deposits                  40%
h.    Corponat equity bares           50%
i.    Eqity shares issued by privadzed
enterprises -and authorized for
public' offern                 20%
j.    Mutual Fus                      20%
k.    Seriies ibsued by forein stas
or inernationl o               20%
1.    Securities issued by foreign
corporations auorized to quote
.  mates dermine by CNV        10%                       .
m.   Futures anxd Options             10%
n. - Mortgage bonds                   40%
o.    Direct Investment Funds         10%
_________    .,______________ . __________



22
3.37  The stock exchange hould ope    as a first-line regulator of its
members and of listed companies but both should also be subject to
supervison by CNV. CNV should have a clear residual rigt of diect
supervision of both exchange member and listed companies. The most
appropriate approa  would be legal reform to brng the exchage members
unfder the supervisn of the CNV. The appraisal mission agreed with CNV
that the market transpareny law before congress would achieve a
sifl y improved degree of spervioy power for CNV and if passed
would be a satisfactoiy soution to this problem. In the interim, the CNV is
relying on Resolution 227, wbich has strengthened its band to investigate
breaches and ensure that the Board of the Excbhge imposes approprate
penamies. Application of Resolhion M27 is Dart of the nolic pr8a that
the proiosed operatio would sort  d would be reviewed duri  t  thwo
mid-Wem pause inc:ns
3.38  P.xdental           At present, the minimum capital  iremns
for brokers are inadequate for the increased volume and volaity of the
market. Because change in this area will have a substantil differeal
imact on dfferent categories of brokers, the reform could be implented
Listages over approximtly 18 months. At present, the only capiad
requrd  of stockbroks is their inesnt in at kast one share of the sock
exchange to obtain mmberhip (and some working capital). This is imposed
by rles of the exchge. There is no lgal requime  for stc   es
who are memb   of the stock exchne  to be authorized by CNV, and as a
conequen, to fulfill a legal capital adequacy requiremenL The value of a
share in the echange has fluctated betwee US$0.5 million and US$1.7
milLion; it is now about US$1 million.
3.39  A liquid capital requeim   related to risk exposure would be
intrduced. A goal for the medium nter should be to establish a flexible and
finely tued reqrement based on risk weights of categories of assts,
marking the value of assets to market and taking into account hedgfng
3.40  Te araisal mission obtained from the CNV ageement on the
establishent of a compeie scheme of prdenfal reguladon, geared to
the risk cha     s of the Argentne securities market. This scheme
would incude (a) capital adequacy rules to be itrduced in a phased
manr; and (b) regulatons and systems to supervise closely capitd adequacy
requirements The CNV bas already completed a study in cooperation with
the Stock Exchange to analyze the finial stue  of stock brokers and te
risks they face.. It has also dafted rules    liquid capital
. The proposed  chnical aance loan (TAL) will provide
furter support in these areas (see para. 3.47). A cditon of the first



23
formal rview is that fth CNV afot get liudmi)tlrles with risk-
Mig$ foaedw and Wfe KfftW UN=m and meowds to 8prvise
3.41  Enial ConQmgl        . In Argentina, scurides market
ine diares may be owned by banks and oter fia     institutions so log
as they are operated as separately incorporated  ies. Also, banks
may underwrite securites issues and trade in secuities and derivatives. The
nascent stage of pnxdental regation in the securities market and the relative
novelty and complexity of the reglaory task in supervising financial
conglomerates means that substantial market risk are at present poorly
accounted for in the regulation of the groups. Improvement in this situation
requires co-ordination between the baning, insurance and securities
regulats and an   me    n of the supervisors' capacities.
3.42  Another issue relatd to finan   conglomes is the lack of real
separation beween the various activides of the subsidiaries and heir paren
companies giving rise to conflicts of interet in relation to cLients and in
elation to imsider trading and madrt m       In Argentina there is a
need for an enforced code of ethics related to client dealings so that, for
instance, a bkera  house associated with a bank insurace company or
mutul fund does not act against its client's best intrests in order to benefit
is bank or isance compay owner. Simary, there needs to be a sict
separon between the commercial and investment banking businesses on tie
one hand and the stock bkrge busines  on the other so that the
mo unity for insider trading and market mi n  is minimized. These
ise,  along with the prudental r  on  ses mentioned above, could be
deat witi by the th  regulatory agencies through improved coodinat
between suevisoy agenies. Improved supmvision of financia
conlmeratewil result from do rgltoy and n Di   trgtening
that is part of the policy progrm  to be carried out by the CNV (par. 3.47).
3.43   Ilmfl Cgapd  Marke SperIo. CNV bas recnty
reorganied to stengthen monitorn and    en   funcdons. Under the
new orgion, CNV wi improve its control procedurs through better
coordination between the lgal e     and   ectin n fc . A
specialized area will stengte enforcement and reQlaty development.
3.44. Neverftel, CNV plans to improve further its capacity in the ars
of mauret monitng abd enfobrement of the law and reulatons. This
improvement will be spoed by the companion CMTAL, and will take
place in the areas of buma resources, organization and man , and
inforation technology. Greatest emphais wil be placed on improving the
staff capacity of CNV buildig on the oa ional            and



24
pLaniing aledy begu. Fit, exstg staff require exnsive long-term
rain  in vtaly all aspet of teik new supervisory task. The basic
biities of professional staff are genetally high and their capacity for
improved I ntion is great, but their experience in the relevat
functions is imited. Second, CNV's abiliy to recrit and reain the best
available staff must be improved. Overal public service staffing poLicies and
salaies pae an xeptonal constain on the CNV's abiWly to compete with
prte sector salaries. Consideration should be given to allowing the CNV
to chage fees for its various services and direct the fids received to
bnprovin its supervisory capacity. A way should be found to overcome
salay caps for essenal prfesinal positions, perhaps thugh substntial
perfonnane-based supp .
3.45  With regard to orgaization and          CNV wil review its
responsbIes ,  funct    and systms and develop a foural plan for, say,
the nox twelve months. This is parculaly ne y base the CNV has
auired new regulatory             and is re-o    g itself win its
estng priorities and so needs to establsh a cohesive sens of direction in
new rch- i r u aoes. Withou a conscious review and reaion, it runs
the risk of reducing its efficiency or msdIecting its efforts. This review is a
of the companion CMTAAL.
3.46 With regard to infomation technology, CNV has histalled and will
comtission new hardware and softwae. CUcial sbsequen stp required
are: (a) developmet of specific programs          through
n   nB NM of existing off--     sowe) to meet the CNV's operatioal
needs, eseialy in mart moing and io support; (b)
extensive, log-term staff tain In the use of the new systems; (c)
modiHicao and upgrang the  stem in lh  of xperience. Tbis too
would be supported by the proposed Bank CMTAL.
3.47  Pmmss in he Implm       i  of CNVs ogiao  review and
arouram would be incl     thd n the policv nrogram to be
supotI by the pposod operaion and reviewed d        the two p    in
gnmi_m. The orgnizaonal review and development program,
supparted by the CMTAL, contemplates:
(a)   Strengnng  of CNV's oraion and manag
thro: (i) evaluation of its current capabiliies and design of
a retutr   progam  fo bCNV; (i) Im leme on of such
restruturin prgm; (Iii) development and Implemention of
a training progrm for CNV's professional staff; (iv)
preparation of the first twelv-month business plan for CNV;



25
and (v) insalladon of a computerized management information
system for the new organizational structure of CNV.
(b)   Upgrading of securities market regulations through: (i)
evaluation of current securities market trends and new
regulatory    ents and preaation of proposal for capital
adequacy nrles for secrities market intediaries in
accordance with their risk profiles; (ii) design and
implementation of supervisory systems to ensure compliance
with capital adequacy rles, inclding record-keeping
specifications for securities market intermediaries, and design
and implementadon of CNV's systems for monitoring such
intermediaries' financial position; a study with
recommendations to steamline and improve coordination
among different regulatory agencies supervising financial
conglomerates, inchding specific proposals for
among CNV, BCRA, and the Supeintendency of Insce;
and Civ) installation of a computer system in CNV to enable it
to be permanently informed on securities market behavior.
3.48 Taxe. The taxation regime in the capital market, which applies to
the issuance, trading, irc value, intrest income, capital gins, and profit
remItn, has been greaty improved in recent years. Transaction taxes
have been abolished. The profits tax was equaized between domestic and
foreign investors and abolished for corporate bonds held by indiviuals. The
policy prgra  under the proosd opraio inldest the aQeMen Mgt h
rnment will not rsablis transaction taxes on financial and capital
market Mm"sa=ins Complinc with this agremen would be reviewed
ing the two amuses in comitms
3.49 Miutal Funds. The activity of mutual funds has been limited for the
very same reasons that constined the securities market and by the
resttion that these funds invest 90 percent of their portfolio in equity
shares. Legislation has been passed to free limits on investment in cotporate
bonds CMy de Fondos Cmnes de Inversion). The new law (No. 24.083)
probibits the fuids to invest (i) in securites issued by the managing
corporation or by other mutual funds; (ii) more than 2 percent of its assets in
securities issued by the managing corporatios controUling entity; (iii) in
securities accouing for more than 10 percent of the issue's liabiliies; and
(iv) more than 30 percent of the fud's asts in a given Govermment
security. With tie emergence of the corporate bond market, investent
funds provide a needed mechanism to channel savings from individual
investors. The stock exchange is now adopting a formula first used by IFC,
namely creaing diversified Argentine Country funds, with broadly diversified



26
risk bases and listing at leading foreign stok exchanges. M ahen of
gan enlabling the develoOmfe of mutual funds is also part of X
poli rorm to be    wm ith                    in



27
IV. =B PROP- OPERATIONI
Bank Grmou Asisb and Sn
4.1   The Bank's country assistance staeg since 1989 has emphasized
support for comprehensive public sector reforms, while also encouagg the
completion of trade and finana refoms srted earlier. Progress in these
reforms has created the basis for disination and a private sector-led
investmen recovery. The Bank's lending progrm included adjustm   and
techical assistance support for pubiL aI n   and civil service reform
(through the Public Sector Reform Loan-PSRL); privadzation of railways,
telecommunications, oil and gas (through the Public Enteprise Reform
Adjustment Loan - PERAL); provincial reforms; social security reforms, and
social sector improvements; public baning reform (through the FSAL);
defense-related public entrprise refom (PERAL II); completion of the large
Yacyreta hydroelectric project; and a debt and debt servie reduction (DDSR)
loan that supported the conclusion of Argentina's Brady deal in April 1993.
4.2   With adjustment nearing completion, the Bank's evolving stat   is
to support efforts to consoldate and deepen the Inpact of the
lmaoeconomic reforms - making them more permanent by str h
Argent's greatly weakened   tions, assisting in redeveloping
effective social service delivery systems, and fodering the developmet of
the priate sector, with partcular attenton to resource mobilizon and
.nter*ed-on issues. Bank operations are now shirS to the proposed
support for capital market developmnt, imwoved qwait of financial
intermediion services, and essential public and social services. Reform of
provincial finances vMWd:be -followed up by provincl investment and scial
sector lenlding, i line with he pvinces' nwly-acquired  sibiity for
infrastructure and social ectors. Anayt   work will spo  lending
related to povinial finance, private linfastructre investments, relation of
natural monopolies, price-based         policies, and delivery of social
services.
4.3  IFC is becoming increasingly active in Argentina's privation
process. Recent IPC pnvatization investments have been in sectors such -as
petrochmicals, oil and gas, a  aibusiness. IFC's inv_esents in
privatizations (especially in the infiastutu sector) are expected to increase
furtier as the privatzaton program is completed. Given the opening of
Argenna's economy and regional integation, IFC is now increasing its
focus on projects that help develop a competitive local industry. In addition,



28 
IFC will seek projects that present a viable potential fbr iegration with
other Latin American economies.
4.4   The specific sectos that IFC will targe  e: (a)  -eagtie-td
jiW. including expansion/mmodenization of agro and forestry processing
capacity, exploration/development and transpo  of hydrocarbon resources
and the transfoation of non-tadeables into tradeables, and retabilitation
and expansion of physical infrstructure; (b) domec h M, including
rructn and expansion of companes that are considered competitive,
and rehabilitation and expasion of physical infastu  for domestic use;
(c) c,jmarkets. including assistance to private companies and fmancial
intermedaries in mobilizing domestic and intentioqal resources and in their
liability management, and assistance in seg   the capital maket
regulatory framework.
4.5   Lessons learned from prior financial intermediary loans ML) in
Arentina and elsewhere point to the following key ncesary equi
for satictory project pe ane: (a) policy conditions   uing susted
nacroeconomic stability; (b) s_usid absence of major distortions in
resource allocation incentives; (c) existe    of profitable first and second-tier
fnial isitutons; (d) financial policies eoug     efficiency; and (e)
stng cm mnt   to developmen objectives.
4.6                         . Macroeconomic insabilty is one of the
key reasons why industria FLs in Argentina filed. In the first Ixhutril
Credit Line, domesdc currency appreciation-semming from the
government's attempt to cutb inflaton trough exchange rate managm
wiout resolution of the fiscal fundamentals-led to a decline of industrial
output, which undermined disIn the second credit line,
mroeconomic instbility led the Govermnt to reverse trade liberalizabon,
discouaging ivestm   in tradeables. Present government efforts to achieve
ssained stability are one key reason why a capial market operaton is being
cnsidered. In addlion, the govenment has taken actions to pct the
fiscal and quasi-fiscal budgets from fincial sector disrbas.
4.7  R£Mj         AIgcadon PIcbu  The contibution to developmet of
the first industial credit operation was undermined by the cited currecy
appreciation. The contribtion of the second industrial credit line was
undermined by Argentina's relapse into protetonism. In general, reviews of
PIL operations have steused the need for an unditortied economic



29
enviromet to ensure that FIs indeed con te to deveom.
Following the relapse into protectionism in 1981-85, the Argenin
goverment begn to take importa  measures to lbeaiz trade. Tbus far,
these meaue include a reducdon of export taxes, reetablishment of a
comprehedsive schme for  direct tax reimbu    simplian of
export procedures, reducton of the average level and disperion of ad-
valorem tariffs, and rduction of import restrictions. Nevertheless, the
Goverment has recendy established quotas on some textile and paper
products, albeit only for one year.
4.8   EL bkm    ard s ab . A key obstacle to past FIL
performance was BANADE's lack of commitment to profitability. Reviews
of past FIs unrored government itfence ito second tier bank
(BANADE) lending policies as a prime cause of the inst 's failure. The
1991 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) calls for reduoed govenmet
involvement in financil instions. To address this issue, the Goverment
has initated liqudation and privatizaion actions. Included among these
actions is the liquidatio of BANADE (completed and the privazation of
the Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguos (underway).
4.9   Song first th   institutions are al  a key rqurement stressed in
Bank reviews of past FILs. In Argenn, the capi  ion of  veral ba,
specially tose belonging to the public sector, was undermined by large
portfolio losses. In this regard, the PSAL upports the Govenment's efforts
to iquidate and privatize public bans, to e-no e efficiency in remaining
public bas  (incl g provinci baniks), and to srengtben aU banks'
commitmen to solvency tough improvement in regtin, superviion and
focemen. The operaton would encourage solvecy and profitabiity by
requng tht participating bans (PBs) be prime-rated commercial ban.
Furthermore, the a ccmpan i CMTAL would finance tinig to improve
the bank' capacity to assess long-tem corporate credit operations (pa.
4.28).
4.10     P         ldes. The major fiacial policy strsed in reviews of
FILs is the need for free interest rates and allocation of credit to encouage
resource moWbztion and efficient alocaton of credit. In the past, intrst
rte ceiling and directed credit undermind finacial sector perorme.
There an no longer ay Centra Bank directed credit lines. The Cetral
Bank provides only las resort loans to solvent commeil bans. Present
inter  rate subdies, which are inconsistent with development of the capital
maket, will be ended as part of the policy program agreed with the
Government (para. 3.26-3.27). These conditions would alo avoid articially
cheaper sources of funds und mg capital market development.



30
4.11  Com_nt tIxo*icnlQhiTciIrm. The PCRs and PPARs
of both prior FILs to Argentina indicated that the contributior of these
operations to development was undermined by weak government commiment
to policies and by lendig and disbusement pressue. Conditions in this
reprd have improved sbarply. Governmt ment to stabilization and
resource allocation policies is based on the wiely held opinion that only
those policies can help foster growth  The Bank's qualit contol procedures
have stngtned the conditions under which fial intemiariescan be
supported so as to improve the financial and capital market development
impact of its financial sector Operations.
4.12 The proposed operation is preceded by a long period of Bank
inYvlvxemt in Argentina's financial sector. Knowledge of sector issues has
be  gatered ftough com nsive economic and sector work simce the
mid-1980s. Recent efforts include Country Economic Memoranda with much
emphais on financial issues and a series of financial sector reports, the latter
completed in 1986, 1987 and 1989. A review of capital makets was
completed in 1988. The PSAL was prepared in 1992/93. Several
operational missions, inlmuding pepion work for the proposed opeaton.
have furter reviewed the capital market developmet policy issUes. Te
forts a  playing an importat role in the Govenmets actons. to bipve
the maket's regulatoy and institutional framework. Furthermore, a capital
market study under prparaion wil develop       dons to reduce
intmediation costs, epand the choice of financial iwsumentsF, furtier
encourage the growth of long-term savi, expand the access af sa an
medium   prises to credit and enbance the options for infiasatnctur
fi-.
4.13  A Banking Sector Loan approved in 1988 was usuccessful becauwse of
mNWKAJ%WX ) m   disarray, which prevented the loan from beoming efective.
The reforms sported by the Public Sector Reform Loan and Publik Sector
Techical Assistance Loam approved in 1991 were aimed' at improving the
hInItutional setu of the Central Bank and the uPerintendency of Banks.
The receny approved FSAL follows previous efforts, with a major focus on
liquidati, privazing or downsizg public and provincial bank and
improing baking r ation, sperison and enforcement. FSAM
cnd aliy inludes cmpliance with a         :       stability program;
liberalized itere rates; availability of Cetal Bank redisounts only for
short-term bank liquity pumoes; functoa            of the Cental
Bank; stronger r aon spervision and enforcement of capital adequay



31
and provisioning  l requiens; ending BANADE operations, privatizing
CNAS, converting BHN into a second tier bank, and rationalizing BNA; and
collecting redscouts to provincial bank, limiig provincial bank leding to
their provincial public sectors and equalizing provincial bank reser
equirements with those of private banks. These policies provide the bankig
sector policy famework of the proposed loarn.
4.14 This loan was conceived as part of a Bank effort to direcly address
capital market development by means other than the usual FIL, which can, in
fact, displace natural financial sector development instead of assisng it.
Originally, the concept proposed for this project was to support the purchase
of bond strips matchig the outer maturities of subloans. This concept was
nitdally rejected due to concers about essenially purcaing bonds with
Bank funds and with the likelihood that the loan would not disburse.
Thereab er, a seizaon approach was considered in which the loans to
PBs would be secuned and sold as the maturities declined to levels within
capital market horizons. Both approaches were later rejected in favor of the
proposed Backstop Facit  (BE), which not only promotes an orderly and
efficiet mart for the debt secuies of Argentine commercial ban, but at
the same time permits those banks to extend longer term loans. The concept
-4 not dissimilar to one speled out in a Memorndum of the President to the
Eacutive Directors on the Bank's Expanded Cofinancing Operations
pro_rAMI. PFuthermore, the likelihood that a part of the loan may not
disburs commtted funds is viewed as a positive feature that would idicate
achievement of the project's capitl market development objective.
4.15  The propsed option thus aims to accelerate capital market
devel    n in order to help Argentina meet growing invesment demand.
Whie maceconomic stabiliy coinues to encourage increases in the
volume and tems to maty of bonds and loans, faster growth of long term
fimce is still inhbited. Reasons include: (a) insufficient development of
capitl market reguaioni and supion, and (b) remaining fears of
unpredictable reversals of the economic fu ns suworting stability.
Te opon addrses some key capital maket isues. The objective is to
enworae  not only the holding of medium- and long-term securities by
invors and bankers but also longer term lending by prtme-rated
comercial banks. Thse objecves would be achieved by improving maret
gSo/  R89-37, March 13, 1989.



32
cnfidence and enr  liquidity to  edikworthy banks in the event of
market developmes that rise domestic iter  rates or shorten the
maturWes of available fimding. Futhermore, the operation would asist
small- and medium-size businesses and cetain mortage borrowers (prs.
4.434.44), whch traditionally have bad litde acces to tem lending from te
banking system and been unable to access domestc or intraional capital
markets directly.
4.16 The project is designed to introduce and consolidate the necessay
capital markets ifructt e which, along wifth developing Indigenous skills,
can produce a s   a    aional market. Special emphasis is placed on the
development of st-darded debt securites (with flexible pricing and
maturity p   s), which help meet the growng needs of issuers ad
investors for liquid trading makets. Given the early stage of market
development, snd on of debt securides will enbae the
I  1;- idingof issuwes and aceptan  by ivesto, and will assist other
market partcipa   such as reguato  and credit rating agenies'. In view of
the small size of  idal isses and the likelihood of thin markets at fffst,
stanrdized issues sould also  ct  trading in the domestic secondary
markt. The project also spports the further develpmet of naonal crodit
rating agences, whose role is essential to the maret's abiliy to price and
tade with confidene the crei of issues. In this case, the rating of the
banks asseses tbeir capacity to manae the financial an  redit risk
socated with lendin to smaller enses.
4.17  The loan would supp   a Backstop Facity (BF) that woud assure
pime-rated bans a source of long term funding at predetmined financial
cost by offerig them the possility to refnance medum    bonds issued
to fane   longer-term productive loans. The BF wil stand ready to
puhase securities isued to refiance specifically  entified bank deben s
sho ld           banks be unable roflover or extend such debentu   in
the        The BF is designed to inject confe  and provide ladership
for the development of a long  term debentu  markt, wiou sqtp
the natural grwth of local and related in aional madrets and witihou
masdDg the market's pricing ignals. The BF's asurance of future liq y
will assist banks to issue debentus in local or international makets &W.
and to offer loans with even longer matrities with the asrance which the
BF offers ta deues can be sold in tfe fuur. If the BF does purase
debentures in dmes of ma*et disrupton, it is epected to sell tose holdiUgs
as markets conditions normalize. This will enable the BF to issue more



33
commitments and to design its debenture sales program in such a way as to
support the development of a liquid secondary market for the paper.
4.18   The reforms supported by the 1993 Fiancial Sector Adjustue
Loan approved in February 1993, are expected to furthr the developmet of
an improved banking policy framework for the proposed project. Recent
passage of the Pension Reform Law will stimulate an increased flow of
investible funds to the Argentine capital maet. An agreed policy and
institutional development program, including macroeconomic stabiity, freely
determced interest rates, the removal of existng inrest rate subsidies, and
strengthened capital market regulation, supervision and enforcement, would
help increase market confidence. Progress in the agreed policy and
instittional development program (Annex B) would be reviewed during two
pauses in commints to disburse, which would be implemend after 30
percent and 60 percent of the loan has been committed or after 18 and 36
months of effectiveness, whichever comes first. Approval of commitments
would resume following a positive review of progrm Iplemention. An
esal companion of the project is the CMTAL, which would support the
instittional stg      of the secidtes market regulatory agency
(Comisi6n Nacional de VAIore. CNV), the implementation of the new,
reformed pension system, and the development of local skdlls in the area of
term fancing for investment projects.
Amon
4.19  The proposed size of the Bank loan is US$500 million. While loan
disbuments would finane the purh    of bonds by the Fund, the
proceeds of bonds supported (i.e., under backstop commitents) would be
used by PBs to increase eir portfolio of term eligible loam (TEEs, see
paras. 4.43-4.44). The IDB recenty approved a credit line through BICE
and commercial ban  for invesunent loans to businesses in the amount of
US$300 million, with an equivalent amount of cofinacing from the Export-
lmport Bank of Japan. The proposed operaton is only loosely hinked with
the IDB loan in that private sector businesses wiU be the end-users of the
1DB funds and of the funds obtained from bond plcments by PBs under the
Bank's opeaon. The total of US$1. 1 biion is weU within the exp d
demand for fuds, the available domestic medium-term resources that PBs
and final borrowers would provide, ar tthe intc  capacity of PBs.
Private investment is expected to increos from US$40.8 billion in 1993 to
US$46.9 billion and US$51.2 bilion in 1994 and 1995. The enal
financing euiement (the current account of the balance of payments) is
expected to increr- from US$8.5 billion in 1993 to US$9.1 billion in 1994



34
'nd US$9.9 billion in 1995. Capital repatriation, wbich will finance much of
this external fmig requiementL, will complement the expected medium-
term savings that will be generated by pension and investment funds to help
fiace private investment demand. The pension funds alone will generate
about US$2 billion annually. The proposed faciliues would help meet the
demand for long-term finance, by encouraging medium- and long-term
resource mobilization from private sources. The eighteen top commercial
banks (all of them private), with a loan portfolio of US$7.6 billion in 1992,
will be able to accommodate bond issues supported by the BF, particularly as
they grow over the next seven years as a result of stabilization, growth and
finncial deepening
4.20 While loan disbursements would be well within expected aggregate
investment (pam. 3.1), much of aggregate investment may not tanslate into
effective demand for long-term bank finance. Nevertheless, stich demand is
expected to be quite strong. Thus far, latent demand has been contained by
the long-standing reluctace of banks to assume the risks of long-term
lending. With Improved policies, these risks have declined. Pmded with
bond issues, several banks bave begun to iclude medium-term loans in their
portfoiios.
4.21  The project is proposed as a Single Cumncy Loan (SCL) in dollars,
as it meets the eligibility criteria for the SCL loan program: (a) the project
entity (the Fund) will eatn its revenues in doflars; (b) the project entity is
designed to be and is intede to remain, fianially autonomous of the
Government. The Govemment expects the Fund to manage its financial
affars without reliance on the public budget; (c) under the financil
management and adminisaion agrement, the Finaial Manager winl
manage the Fund's citments with a view to ensuring that its cashflows
are  cient to meet its debt sevice obligations on the Bank loan; and (d)
the project entity's assets and liabilities will both be exclusively in US
doll.
4.22 The undisbursed amount of the Bank loan would be subject to the
Bank's usual commitment fee (0.75 percent, but, at least up to the end of
fiscal year 1994, reued to 0.25 percent by Board decision), except for
funds already committed under backstop conacts, which would eam an
additonal 0.15 percen. This proposl is an effort to retain the Bank's long-
standing policy of simnilar pricing for all loans but to charge an additional
amount for the Bank's sevice in support of the Pund's commitmens.
i/Staff projections of the net private capital account amount to US$9.7 billion, US$ 8.9
billion, and US$10.1 billion in 1993, 1994, and 1995, respectively.



35
Projet Impmtal
4.23  The Minity of Economy and the Comis6 Ncional de ValOres
wou>ld be responsible for mpleznentg the aeed policy and institutonal
development program. The BF would be implemented through a corporadon
established and owned by the Govenmet (the Fund). Bano de lnversi6n I
Comercio Eerior (BICEM , a second-tier bank owned by the Government,
would assume most adminitraive funcions, including the hiring of the
Fund's financial manager. BICE would enter into a financial management
agreement with an internationally prestigious financial institution with respect
to many of the operations of the Fund (see paras. 4.47-4.48 and Atachments
D and E to Annex F).
4.24   olia and ona      l Desdo   Pronm. The Minisy of
Economy and the Comision Nacional-de. Vaores wil ens we fa economic
policies remain consistent with the aims of the operation. These policies
include sustained macroeconomic stability; policies permitting the fmntioning
and encouraging the growth of the securites market and central bank
policies encourging prdenl behavior and profitabity of financial
institutions. The following paragaphs spell out the specifics of the program.
The policy program is s izd in Annex B. The macroeconomic and
supervision policies are also part of the conditionality in the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan.
4.25  Macreconmi Poicies. Given the imporlance of moeconomc
stabilization for financial sector and capital market development, the
operation would be accompanied by Bank certification of maonomic
stability. A resumption of stop-and-go hyprinfladon would undemine the
aims of Bank support since: resource mobilization trends would not be
redrssed; the public sector's borrowing reqitement would conme to place
inordinate pressure on the financial system; centl and local goverments
would be encouraged to maintain public financil intutions to capture their
share of the iflation tax; and capital makt development would be stifled.
Therefore, support is ;*ontngemt on strong evidence of suaed
macroeconomic stabilit (para. 3.17).
4.26  Capital Market Policies. The Goverment wUl sustain capkal
market policies including: (a) strengtened regulaion, supervision and
enforcement by the CNV; (b) refrining from   ing financial sector and
capital market transactions; and (c) regulations enabling the development of
mutual funds. This program was discussed at length in Chapter m (pas.
3.31-3.48).



36
4.27 Bank Supervison. Under the FSAL, the ayperintia de
buIi,s EWMkm SME  has made                progress in sing
bank supervision and enforcement2. The FSAL bas performed well and
two of the three tranches have been disbursed. Conditons of renewed
commitments following loan reviews would compris key FSAL criteria with
regard to bank supervision and enforcement. Thse would include
satisfactoiy coverage of inspection of the banking system, contied
applicaton of remedies against banks which are not in complance with
minimum clapil and provisioning requiremets, enforcement of exstng
egulations with regard to external auditors, and enforcement of reguladons
batring provincial banks from BCRA loans for purposes other than meeting
their liquidity needs. The requient of general satisfactory progress for
condtied fmnd comitnes under the poposd loan will furier tegthen
government commitment to progress in bank supervision and enforcement,
pa uarly after the third FSAL tranche disburses fully.
4.28  The          l     . Long-term lending remains constained by
the lack of matching funding from deposits or bonds as well as banks'
coerns with the credit risks of a long term portfolio. These constns
severely affect small and medium scale enerprises and mortage borrowers
hat do not have direct access to the domestic or foreign capital markets.
Improved macroeconomic policies are helping to reduce banks' perceived
risks of long term lending. The proposed operation would help bans
overcome the fuxln  constrant tbrough the proposed BF. The BF would
reduce the liquidity risks of an asset-liabilty mimawh smming from a
disruion of the capital market. The proposed CMTAL would include
financin of the establisment by the private sector of a training program and
specific course modules on long-term finanial imedition for middle and
senior level man       in the banking systm.
4.29 The proposed backtop structure would evolve as follows:
2/Under PSAL condiionality, the Cental Bank should: (a) confirm full inspection of all
banks and application of penalties; (b) confirm complance with capital  i  (Basle
rules) and apply remedial actions; (c) enact regaions to stengthen external auditing,
disclosure of Fl financial smns, and provisioning; (d) achieve satisfactory disclosure of
finial _stement of all bank; and (e) comply with program to improve off-site and on-site
suevson me.tds.
#/For more detail on the structure of the BF, see Annex F, "Legal Asp"cts of the Backtop
FaciLity.'



37
a) The Argentine Governmt creates the Fund to backstop bonds
isued by PBs.
b) The Bank commits to lend US$500 million to the Atgentine
Republic to be onlent to the Fund as necessary for the purpose of
funding the B.
c) BICE is entisted with adminion of the Fund and with
carrying out other responDsibilities reated to the operation. (See paras.
4.48 and Atachment D to Annex F.)
d) BICE enters into a Financial Management Agre  with a
finial instiuion of high  ieo repute (the "Fianci.al
Manager). (See Attachment E to Annx F).
e) PBs are selected by BICE based on criea (paias. 4.524.53)
agreed with the Bank, including credit rating of single "A" or above
issued by two rting agencies (acceptable to BICE and the Bank).
The wFUd issues commitments to purchas secuities isued by PBs
to refinance specialy idetified bank debenur  shouid PBs be
unable rollover or extend such debenur  in the market. The Bank
disburses to the Fund in case PBs exercise their option to sell
securities to the Fund.
g) PBs issue bonis to find their inwestment loam.
h) PBs make loans to finance productive investme.
i) On the exercise date, the bank either rollover or extend the initial
debentures in the market or sell new secrities to the Fund.
j) The Fund would hold the bonds to matuity or it would sell them
in the market when conditions waranted.
4.30  Figre 1 represents the fiancial flows and participants in this
stnture. The details of each element itoduced in this condensed
repreAentation are described below.
4.31 The Bank's Loan to Argentina An extended grace period of seven
yeas   proposed to increase the impact of the opeation over the life of the
15-year loan. The commimentfdisb     t schedule of the Bank's loan to
Argentin wll need to meet two objectives: 1) to commit loan disbursemen
slowly enough to permit the two revws to supervise implementation of



38
Figur 1
BACKSTOP FACIL1TY
PARTICIPANTS AND FINANCIAL FLOWS
Lends to
On-lendsto
Mae bakp comimnson bod
Wm _ WitUi matrities of at least 3 years
Extend MO&= tD longtm
(1nm_m 6-year) loans for
cnditions in respect of the loan's policy aspects before all funds are
cmitted, and 2) to disburse quicldy enough after the grace period to avoid
a bunhing of mauities toward the outer yeas of the amortzaion schedule.
In the firt three years the Fund would make commitent i  ree discret
segmts of up to 40 peren, 40 percent, and 20 pewent of the Bank loan,
respectvely, each year. The Fund would make new commItments only up to
the seventh year. Commitments in the seventh year would apply to bonds
with matuities not exceeding four years. These restrctions would allow
d 1 --s    only up to the 11th year The closing date would be in year
12. Figure 2 presents an illustatve disbursement and amoriion profile
based on the assumptions that (a) the Fund commits 40 percent, 40 percen,
and 20 percent of the Bank loan respectively during    first three years; (b)
the Fund makes fter c           up to year seven in amounts equal to



39
the expired c        (from yeas 1-3) minus drawdowm plus bond
redeptionsI; (c) 50 percen of comi   are drawn down by put
bans; and (d) amortization is based on level repaymn  of disbured
principal. Disbursemen  made &ithe moe period would be amortzed
in uniform repayments of principal during years 8 to 15. Disusements
made after the gace perod (the closing date would be year 12) would be
amortized in uniform repaymen  of prnipal beginning the payment period
after di. Figure 3 portrays the resuling loan balance.
4.32  Terms of the Baukstop Facity. Terms and conditions of the BF
would be set forth in a FaciHty Agrem     between the Fumd and each
i  bak. Each Facility Agreement would be stddizd and
would be in afomapproved by the Bank. Under the BF, a PB would
request that a backsWp commitment be issed by the Fund. (For a smmry
of the proposed contents of Facilit Agreements, see Attachment C to Annex
F). All PBs would be eligible to issue dollar  mia   bonds with initial
maturties of at least 3 yearsw
Figure 2
CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT LOAN
SON" DlImmUn# MU AM NAtIATICN
70-
30
70
Yw
* Disbursement to cover initial Fund expenses



40
Figure 3
CAP I TAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT LOAN
RSuIi ULN LV=
940-
m
69
4.33  BackMopped ONs (BONs). Bonds isued in he Argee markt
ae called QbIiBcin esibm "ONs'. Backtpped ONs will
heceforth be rerred to as "BONs". Different product options could qualify
for backtop com mi. BONs can be bullet bonds. BONs could also be
bonds that can be exended at the option of the holders. Extndable BONs
would have an intal maturi date (the Initial Maurity Dat). By notice
frm a holder of an extdable EON a specfied time prior to the niial
Maturiy Date, the DON holder could elect to (a) presen such BON for full
payment on the Initial Maurity Date or (b) extend such BON for a specified
term (the Exenidon Term') less than or equal to the originl term at the
same int  rate (expressed as a spread over IBOR). If the right of
exension is not execised, then the extndable BON is due and payable on
the Initial Maurity Date. The term to maturity of a bullet EON or the term
to the Iitial Maturity Date of an extendable BON will be at least three years.
4.34  Pricing of BONs would be negoted with the underwriters eiter
directly or through an altemative distibution nechanism (e.g., an auction
managed by the Fund). Distributng BONs through periodic autons would



41
increase the aggregate size of sales (tbrough grouping of similarly rated
BONs) and facilitate pnce discovery. The it ra-st  on the BONs could
be fixed, or a spread over LIBOR or the Treasury Bill rate for selected
terms. Although it is expected that the nare and terms of BONS will be
specified by the Facility Agreem. the Facility Ageement may also
provide that, with the agreement of the Bank, the Fund may expand the types
of BONs that may be the subject of a backstop commment.
4.35  Bonds Sold to the Fund (FONs). If the backsp comitment were
exercised with respect to a BON, the PB would, concurently with its
payment to the holder of such BON, sell to the Fund one or more new ONs
at a purchase price specified at the badstop facility commitment date and a
term at most equal to expired term of the BONs they replaced. ONs sold to
the Fund pursuant to the backstop facility are hereafter referred to as
"FONs").
4.36 The principal amount of the FONs to be bought by the Fund would be
capped-at the lowest of (i) the amount of the bakstop c,  (ii) the
principa amount of the BONs originated during a specified penod after the
backstop commI    date (the Origination Period) and mating at such ime
and (iii) the princpal amount of the term adjustment loans (TEL.) originated
during the Origination Period.
4.37   Sand on of terms and conditons (other than as to rate and
term) of the FONs will be necessary to enhane their saleability (both by
adding effiiency to the process and bypromoting fibl treatmen of such
secuies). Trefore, new isues of FONs would be preferable, although
the Final Manager may have limited discretion to take an existig
extndable BON (e.g., it may have a ready local market that would not rely
on some of the terms sought by the Euro markets). A FON will have a term
equal to or less than the term of the c ng  BON (which, in the case
of an exndable BON, shall mean the term to the Initial Maurity Date),
provided that (i) the combined terms of the BON and the correspondig FON
hall equal at least six years and (ii) no FON shall have a term of less than
tbree years.
4.38  Maturies, Pridug and Alocaion of Bakstopped Bonds. The
maturities of bonds to be backstpd as well as their pricing parameters
would vary according to PB rating. In order to stimulate the development of
a liquid market for PB debt, terms and conditions of BONs and FONs should
also be standardized. The Facilit  Ageems will provide such standard
terms and conditions as well as a matrix for the permissible tenor of BONs
and FONs which may vary by ratig category of the isng PB. This may
create homogeneity within credit ratings so that similarly rated PB debt can



42
then be promoted as "fungible', enhancing lquidity. The higher rated banks
would be elible for longer matnrities and receive pricinkg terms consistent
with their market staing. The price and value of the BF will icrease with
the steepness of the yield curve that appLes to exitng bank securiis or
other sources of bank funds. The PBs will have a kaown nge of possible
fu g costs over the lfe of the bonds, which forms a secue base for their
lending operations.
4.39 The interest rate with respect to a FON wil be set to encourage
fundingdirectly in the capital markets. FONs will be priced by a spread
over LBOR. This spread would be a p-established multiple (greater than
1) of the actal or implHcit spread over LIBOR rate on the BON it replaced.
Such multiple, wlich mIt  vary dependig on the credit rating and the tenor
of the BON or FON, would be calculated by the Financial Manager by
referene to the market rates at issance of the BON for intuments with the
same term as the BON and for instrumts with a term equal to the combined
terms of the BON aud the co     ing  ON. Market data reveal long-term
rates with strong premia over short term rates, reflecting the market's
pceived risk with regard to fumre ewonmic developmes. The Financial
Maner would use an option pricing model as guidane to detrmine the
mutiple. Such calculaton would only be refereial, given that exiting
yield curves are veiy spotty in the outward matdties. ne multiple for
individual BPs should also capre the inane  hbat the BF would offer to a
highly-rated bank (e.g., AAA') that would be ,igible to exercise its option
if it were downgraded (to e.g., "A" or "BBB"' PBs would freely negotiate
the rates on term eligible loan supported by ae BP.
4.40 The Government would pay the applicable commiment fee on the
undisbursed portions of the Bank loan (para. 4.22). PBs would pay a
cmmitment fee to the Fund for use of the BF. The commiment fee on the
facty would begn to accrue on the date of the backstop commitment and
would be payable tougout the period prior to the backstop drawdown date,
provided that the PB wishes to maintain the Fund's upo.  The Fund
would pay a fee to BICE (who would pay a manageme Ifee to the Financial
Manager) and reimburse the Govemment on its commitment fee and interest
rate payment to the Bank out of the Fund's icome. The Fund would
capitlize its profits as a further source to support the BF.
4.41 The method of determining commiment fees paid by PBs would be
based on several principles related to the Fund's objectives and finances, and
to market conditions (See paragaph 1 of Attachment E to Annex F).
Puant to these prciples, fees could be deterined as the minimum
needed to cover commi=tent fees to the Bank and operatng costs of the
Fund, plus a spread to conin demand and/or capitalize profits in the Fund.



43
For the Fund's co  nt, the PB would pay an amnual fee, which would
cover the Govemmen's commitment fee to the Bank (15 basis points over
the Bank's standard commitment fee). The Faa  Manager would
d*eam     e ,most effetie prn   rorMs subject to Ie  rules agred
4.42 Maximum utilization of the BF by any one bank would not exceed 10
percent of the facility or 25 percent of the PB's paid-in capital. PB eligibty
conditions will constrai adverse selection. To ensure that PBs use the
allocated comm Di   to backp or finance long maturities, support would
cover only matuities that exceed what is available to PBs. Under curre
market conditions, the Fund would be likely to support matuties of three to
seven years.
4.43  Term Elible Loans (TEE). One objective of the backstop facility
is to promote the extsion of matuities on productive loans. The maximum
size of a TEL would be US$10 milion, the minimum term of a TEL would
be six years and the maximum permissible sbare of loans for acqion of
new commercial or residentlal buildings in a PB portfolio of TEIs would be
20 percent. Furthemore, the Fund would maintain a negadve list of
ineligible activities, conprising the following: man ed and
mnufactured tobaccu; radioacive and associatd materias; nuckar
reactors, and parts thereof, and non-irradiated fuel elements (cartridges) for
nuclear ractors; tobacco processing machney; and expitures for goods
intended for a miliary or para-military pmpose.
4.44 Loans in connection with real estate will be limited in two respects.
First, the only loans of this nature that will be permitted are those for
constrcon of new buildns or acquisition of buidings built within the
preceding two years and not previously fiaced by borrowing. Second, a
PB will be able to cou a maximum of 60 percent of the value of the asset
fhiaced by such loans as pat of its TEL portfolio. This restiction is
designed to account for the fact that a porton (etmated at around 60
percent) of such loans finances the acquisition of land. It should be noted
tiat loan-to- value ratios for this type of loan in Argentina cmrendy average
around 55 percent
4.45  PBs will seek to ascetain as soon as possible whether loan made
qual  as TEEs in order to avoid payment of commitment fees for ineligible
comItments. The Facility Ageements will outine the method and tming
of that detenon. (As a minimum, a cerdficae of the PB should be
required and ispecton rights on the part of the Fund with respect to loan
dbouments should be provided for in the Facility Agreement.)



44
4.46 Figure 4 illustrates an example of the timing in the exercise of the
bacstop facility.
Figue 4
lustrave Timiu in mhe Exercise of the Backsto Faciit
DATE                      EVENT                     AMOUNT
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ($   m i lo )
06/94           Fund Issues Commitnent to participating     20
Bank (PB)
07/94           PB Issues Bonds                             50
08/94           PB submits evidence of increase in Term     20
Eligible Loans (TELs)
04/97 to 0S/97    PB goes to market to rollover bonds       30-
05/97           PB notfies Fund that it will exercise       20
option to sell bonds to the Fund
05/97           Fund ascertains that PB complies with      N.A.
financial     s
06/97           Fund/Govenment request World Bank           20
disbursemet and Fund purchaes bonds
from PB
06/2000         PB redeems bonds from Fund                  20
4.47  The Fmd.  The Fund would have an independent legal identity.
The Government has entrsted BICE with the administration of the Fund.
BICE would engage an international   ion satisfactory to the Bank to act
as Fincial Manager of the Fund according to pre-determined nlles and
principles, including the Financl Manwer's performance crieria.
Development of the management capacity of the Fund will be finace with
the assistance of a Grant from Japan's Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund, in the amount of Y20.6 minlion (approximately
US$190,000). Rules and principles of the Fund and the BP will be covered
by the Project Agreement and subsidiary agreements, including the Charter
and By-Laws of the Fund; the on-lending Agreement between the



45
Governme  and the Fund; the Faclt  agreemn nd Annexes; the
Administation Agreement between the Fund and BICE; and the Fhancid
Magent Agreenme  betw    BICE and the Fincial Manager (see
Amex F). The key ils and pnciges of the  d  ad the BF wee
au!reed at neuptiations. The Fudwoud be estblhe prior to dlnn  ofthe
loan. lhe sixning or finalization f(   gnre} of  b      arF
and dgocmat would be A a condgtiof fcies.
4.48  M a      ennthMe Fud.
(a)   The Governmen will select the members of the Fund's Board
of Dlirect. The number of Directors will be establifd by
the By-Laws of fte Fund. Board members will be
Governmet officials.
(b)   The Fund would engage BICE to undertae minisati
responibilities with respec to the Fund under an
"Adminisaon A e t betwee the Fund and BICE,
pproved by the Bank
(c)   The Admi ton Aeemet will provide that BICE mus
hir an             recognized fbin l instid on wih a
proven success  record to act as ElPina MMal  of the
Fund. The Financial na   ad th agreeme  (t
'Finaneial Manageme  Agreement") purn to which it acs
for the Fund will be approved by the Bank.
(d)   Tbe  mjZlMa wil dami                        f    o
backstp commm ; comte comm            s avalable to be
offered at any time; ddetmine the inerest r  on FONs to be
issued pursuant to com; mak dedons b   wh  to
sell FONs; make investm  deisions with respect to funs
iuot invested in FONs; act as, or appois and supervis, a
cstodian for funds and oher amounts due to the Fund. Such
decisions will be gid   by policy guidelines, acceptable to the
Bank, seeling the saft of such investmet.
(e)   The Finania Mamager wil also monior the delopment of
the PB ON capitl m t aind of the availability of TELs.
The Finacl Manager may request that the Bak conside
amendents to improve t  BF (icluding exqing the
natue, term or ype of permissible DONs or FONs, or



46
adjusftag pricing or mauity parmtes), or additonal
facilities, which will promote the development of a liquid bond
maket and/or the availability of TELs. (For a detiled
description of the functions of the Financial Manager, see
Annex P, Attachnent B.)
(f)   The Administradon Agreement and the Financial Manag
Agreement will contain consraits on RICE and the Financial
Maagee's discretion in managing the Fund. Tlese could be
raised by the Government and Bank as the project evolved,
particularly during the two pauses in comtets. Among
the inital key constai  are the followiDg:
*     Under the administraon arragement, BICE would select PBs
pursuant to established criteria (para. 4.52). inchluding
satisfactory rating by at least two rating agencies.
*    BICE would have no power to leverage the Fund (para. 4.49).
*    The equ          with respect to the BF, including the
attributes of TELs, BONs and FONs, may not be varied by
BICE (except as age  by the Bank and the Governmeat).
3     There will be a rule for the methodology of pricng FONs
(para. 4.39).
*     The allocation of BP resurces to a PB will be limited to 10
percent of the Bank loan or 25 percet of the PB's capital,
whichever is lower (para. 4.42).
4.49  Fund Levea:g. Unless the Bank othwise agrees, the Fund's
backstop commitments at any one time will not exceed the sum of cash and
cash eqialents owned freely by the Fund and the size of the Bank loan (less
the amount allocated to the Fund's inital expenses) available at e time.
This constit wil ensure that calls on backstop commi    do not exceed
the Fund's fmianial capacity. This constaint could be reconsidered
following the actual implemention of e   fcilit and upon the establishent
of a schedle idating the exercise dates of its cs.
4.50 Hypothetical Flnandsa Projections of the Fund. The liabilities of
te Fund will include any disbursed proceeds from the Bank loan. The
Fund's assets would include bonds puchased and investments of excess
liquidty in eligible secuites. Fund income includes inuest on PB bonds



47
and lidity invesmens and commitment fees. Fund costs include ine
and commitme  fees and management fees as well as other operati
exenses. Forecasts of the Fund are subject to the uncertainties with regard
to ikWely drawings under the backstop facility. Annex 0 provides financial
frea  of the Fund under two alternative asumptions regaig the
fraction of coitments exetcised by the PBs (20 percent and 50 percent).
The forecsts assume that (a) the Fund commits 40 perce, 40 percen, and
20 percent of the Bank loan respectively during the first three years; (b) the
Fund makes further commitments only up to year seven and in amouns equal
to the expired cmits  mimns drawdowns plus bond redemptions; (c) the
Fund earns yearly spreads over LIBOR of 0.75 percent on cash inestments
and 3 percent on BON investments; (d) the Fund earns a yearly fee of 0.75
peet  on backstop co   ens (e) the Fund pays a spread of 0.5 percent
over lBOR on the Bank loan; (D) the udisbbursed amount of the Bank loan
would be subject to the Bank's usual commitment fee (0.75 percent, but, at
least up to the end of FY94, reduced to by Board decision to 0.25 percent),
except for funds already committed umder backsop contas, which would
earn an additioal 0.15 percent.
4.51 Figures 5 to 7 depict a possible time path of assets and capital;
commitments and BON holdings; and income, expenses, and profit. It is
assumed that 50 percent of baop commt         are exercised. The typial
patten for assets (Figure 5) is an inverted "U", with the rising segment due
to      ing disbuments and the decling segment due to loan
aortization. Capital generally ineases toughout, although with very low
exercise ratios there may be a decline at the end due to low earnings from
BON holdings coupled with fixed co  of operaon. Commitments (Figme
6) also follows an inverted "Un, with BON boldings miroring that behavior,
albeit at the lower level explned by the low exercise ratio. Finally, Figure
7  lustates the inverted "U"-shaped profile of income expenses and profits,
and the possibility of losses at the exteme due to low ering from nascent
or declng comm         and BON holdings.
4.52  Iil ftkt&a Cdkda fo  Part4 Ban. Banks eligible to
participte in the facility would be prime-rated commercial banks, selected by
BICE according to criteria agreed with fte Bank, including fial citeria
and a high qualit rating of its obligations by two rating agencies (banks
issuing ONs are currenty required to be rated). Compliane with the
financial criteria would be required to confirm the ratings. This confirmation
is app   ate given the short time that rating agencies have been in place in
Argeni. Should the ban cease to qualfy under the agreed criteria (as
defined in the Project Agreement) that bank would no longer be eligible to
partiipate in the program.



XF
tn               ----------p                                                                                         U                                                                        '
-W w s Ss X *<w-----l- -                                                                                                        L
L4 
~~. .. F.. .  ..
* IDJ 2z0, 
m <~~~~~~~~~~Elsa  _~                                                                                                                                                y.o <se 



49
Figure 7
BACKSTOP FACILITY
tN,M DS0,, AM APFtR TAX POFtT
7
a_
-l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
E         iL 10 I I I iLt~1042 4
Yew*
I    2  Tfl s
OATIN0 uWT  Et l   IT APTER TAX
4.53  Specific eligibility reqi   for PBs as well as te size and
conns of the drawings under t  facility will be inclded in the loan
agreemet. For inital eligibiity, PBs should have a single A ratg  at a
minimum and comply wit the following BICE credt risk acceptance creria,
as confirmed by satisfactory private extnl auditors:
(a)   capital should be at least 8 perent of risk-weighted asets and
contngencies, with core capital at least 4 percent of weighted
assets;
(b)   the PB would have t be in cormpiae wfit capital adequacy
and provisioning re       of the Su       cy  of
Financial Endtides;
(c)   the average rate of reun on equity over the last  ee years
should be positive and larger than the real rate on its
certfcates of deposit;



so
(d)   recheduled loans should not be more than 20 percent of
portfolio, with less ta 5 pen of portfolio resched
more than once;
(e)   individua exasure levels should be less than 10 percent of the
PB's capital;
(JD   at least 20 pcent of deposits should be mvested in cash,
Government bonds, or liquid finaial instments issued by
ban  with triple A ratgs;
(g) managerial effectiveness and intenmal controls should be
sadsfactoy (as discussed in the auditor's management leter);
(h)   capacity should exist to nnplement efficieny project and loan
identification, appraisal, and supervision.
4.54  Requi   (b) above comprises the Cental Bank's basic prxdential
reuation (capil and provisioning req    ). Althogh the other
ceria are consistnt whth Cental Bank regulatons, they are not requnred by
fthse regulatons. In addtion, PBs would agree to sibmit annual audits by
extrnal auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The Fund would require PBs to
retain all the relevant supporting doumentatiol for review by the auditors
and Bank staff. Further, the audits should include a loan portfolio report
indicatn the amount of I=remental TELs.
4.55  BICE will dermine compliance with the Lsted requirements from a
PB appraisal process that includes an assssment of the reliability and
accepability of PB financial statments; an analysis of those statements;
determnation of whether exterwl auditrs and external auditors' reports are
reliable; and prearation of finacial projections.
4.56  BICE's bank aasal  s   is consistnt with Bank uidelines as
laid out in O.D. 8.30. This WMonsistenv is part of the proganm to be covered
dw  roject mnews. To date 80 banks have been subjected to BICE's
evalon process, most of them during 1993. BICE first developed an
analytical system to help accomplish the task and then brought in experienced
analysts to use it. The anlyticl system was originally developed with the
spport of Price Waterhouse and then signficanty modified by BICE
managers and staff drawing on experience in Citibank's institudonal
4.57  NaItw   Adke  C      emClauM. The BF is not intended as credit
support for the BONs. Therefore, the Facility Ageement with each PB



51
would provide that, notwittanding the satisfaction of all otr conditions to
exercise of the backstop commitment, the Fund will not be required to
purchase FONs if any of the following conditions is not satisfied at such
time:
4.58 Fnancdal Requirements:
(a)   The PB cannot have been downgraded below a tnple B credit
ramting from the backstop commiment date.
(b) Capital should be at least 8 percent risk of weighted assets and
contingencies, with core capital at least 4 percent of weighted
assets.
(c) The PB would have to be in compliance with capital adequacy
and provisioning  i n     of the Supeitendency of
Financial Entities.
(d)   Rescheduled loans should not be more than 20 percent of
portfolio, with less than 5 percet of portfolio rescheduled
more than once.
(e)   Individual expose  levels should be less than 10 percent of the
PB's capital.
(f) At least 20 percent of deposits should be invested in cash,
Government bonds, or liquid financial inumens issued by
bans with triple A ratings.
4.59 No Default: The PB could not be in default on any covenants or
payment obligations under the BONs.
4.60 No Cress-Default: The PB could not be in payment default under
any of its other liabilities exceeding a threshold amount (which may vary by
rating category), with a carve-out for any liability disputed by the PB in good
faith and for which adequate reserves have been established.
4.61  No Banptc: The PB could not be in bankuptcy or receivership.
4.62  Rgn AMcIN. Eight ratmg agencies are presetly opeatI  in
Argetina, with the three major agencies accounting for over 90 percent of
2/ See pargraph 4.72 for a discussion of downgrdes in credit rating.



52
the rated values. The quality of the major rating agencies appeas to be high
and thr tngs reliable. Two of the ratn agencies are affiliated with major
international fms and one is in the process of negotiatons. One of the
agencies, PCA., is affiiated with IBCA of London, which is perhaps the
most highy respected bank rtng service in the world, and its president is a
fomer vice chaiman of the Central Bank of Arenta. Broda, another of
the agencies, is afiated with Duff and Phelps of the United States. Duff &
Phelps also is exremly well-regarded in the capital markets. In both cases,
the Argentine agency uses the methodology of the affiliate.
4.63  Local rating ran  are established with the assumption that the
obligations of the Republic are AAA; thus local ratigs do not incorporate
the sovereign risk of Argentina. As Duff & Phelps notes: "Offerins by
Argentinea compnies directly into the U.S. will be rated by Duff & Phelps
(USA) in cooperation with BDEIDuff and Phelps. These ratings will not
correWond diectly with BDFIDuff and Phelps' local currency ratings as the
US ratings will take into account Argetna's sovereign risk."
4.64 The rating medtodology of all of the agencies iterviewed is similar to
that of the US agencies. They analyze the wrien fnancial material
supplid, both audited financal satements and supple ry schedules (such
as the material provided to the central bank). They adapt the financial
account to their snUardized format and then they calculate a wide range of
ratios for te accounts. This procedure frequenty idenfies abnonnal rados
or trends which indicate areas that need partcula analysis and discussion in
the manag     meeti
4.65 The methodology of the rating agencies follows the widely used
CAMEL sysm e       passing the analysis on: Capital adequacy, Asset
quality, Managemet qualW   and ite , b   gs qualit and stabilit, and
Liquidity. Te rating agencies adapt this system to Argentine conditions.
For exmple, gtven the consta  on the Central Bank which limits the
Hquidity it is able to provide to the banking ystem, liquidity management,
asset liquidity and balane sheet matching of the banks receive particularly
close scrutin by the atdng agenies (as well as by BICE). They also pay
close attention to bank owrsi and to the composion of the board of
diectors as well as to the banks' major borowers.
4.66 Banking superision requires filing a large amount of financial and
portfolio information, all of which is made available to the ing agencies
for their analysis. This inchludes material on asset and liability matching
n      _mp  and a list of the bank's 50 largest loan recipients. All of the
agencies intrviewed pay close attention to asset quality and loan provisioning
pacies.



53
4.67  Me quanitative aessment is followed by meetings with  a
of the borrower. These meetip include discussions of issues highlid by
the ratio analysis plus discuions of business stratgy, credit poLicies and
procedures, treasmuy management, etc. which produces an overall   _
of manag    t quality.
4.68  Notice of rating assignments is requied to be published in the offcial
daily goverment record as are annouments of changes in ratigs. At
least one agency is trying to be more assertive in distributing press releases
regrding its raing decisions.
4.69 Since the rating process is new to Argentina, it remains to be seen
what kind of a job the agencies will do in conection with monitoring ranp
on oustanding bonds. Given the evident compeence of the raters
presumably they, like the US agencies, will plan to request anmual meetjg
with each rated bofrower and will then reaffirm or change the ratigs as the
circumstance merit. The focus on management qualit, busine  strategy,
etc. that the ratings process incopoates ought to lead to a reasonable levd
of rating stability as it does in the US; however, this will only become clear
as the ratins (and the agencies) become more seasoned.
4.70  Argen    regulations require that, since November 1992, all publicly-
offerd smrities be raed by at least two audt d private agies. Eadc
agency must register with the CNV and is subject to esiCtintended to
gurntee thek ie          and professional competence. The limied
number of "split ratings" (see Annex 1, Table 1-2) would indicate rasonably
broad high levels of professional competence.
4.71  Rans  have been assigned to 20 bans. Approximately another 20
bans are in the process of obtning ratings. Numerous banks are in the
pre-ating stage in which the rating agencies demterine the corrective
measures needed for a bank to obtain an acceptable raing. The most
frequent deficiencies found are: a high cost structure and te restng need
for high spreads in a market where spreads are expetd to decline; poor
asset quality; and insufficient provisions.
4.72   Mh_nIum Cn     at      Eligibility to obtain a new commiment
from the Fund would require a PB credit rating of "A" or above. The
appraial mission estimated that 15-20 bans could satisf eligibilit
reqirements, inluding the minimm single "A" nrtig, in the ear fur.
These banks issued rated bonds eeing US$500 million in 1993.
Downading to triple B would be allowed for drawdowns. This flexibUit i
based on the assumption that any market disuption provoking a drawing



54
would potntally engender a downgrading of all bank raings m Argentina.
Thus, if no downgrding were permitted, the BF could be irrelevant.
4.73  Am&ot of Support to a Prldnatlns Bank. The legal document
would establsh a maximum Fund exposure with any PB of 25 percent of the
PB's paid-in capital. In addition, to ensure fairness and to guard against
dominance of the facility by the large banks, no PB would be permitted to
absorb more that 10 percent of the faciity.
4.74      Operadon.  BICE will not only manage the Fund but also
undeke other operations supporting medium- and long-term lending. BICE
was established by the Government in 1992, with the chief aim of
wholesa   medium and long term credit that would be used by the pnvate
sector. BICE's lending will be exclusively to prime-rated participating banks
to be relent chiefly for investment, import, and export financing. Agement
was confmed during notiations that BICE will operate exclusively as a
second tier institution. This covenant would be similar to IDB's under its
credit line operation through BICE. Sources of BICE's funds include foreign
banks, multilateral instutions, foreign govemments, and the capital maket.
ht is expected that official lending institutions will be a transitory source of
funding, to be tapped while banks develop a wider and sustned access to
p=rivate sources of long term lendimg. BICE may raise additional resources
through sale of asset-backed securites. BICE's profits will include: (a) a
spread on the loans on its own account and (b) management fees (e.g., on
Government held export portfolio and on adinkisaon of the proposed
Fund). Although there is still much uncetainty on BICE's prospectiv
growth and instutional development, presenly anticipated Operations,
cluding the export portfolio, import loan from Spain, Itly and possibly
France, and the IDB loan provide the raw material for profitability, provided
the orgnztion remains lean and its pricing is market oriented. The
uncerainty with respect to BICE's development as a lending instituion is one
reason why the proposed project design envisages the Fund establisbed as an
imlependent corporation where the discre    of BICE is limited by the nrles
of the   inion and m gement agrements. BICE has already
developed the ins"tional capacity (e.g., aministaion and bank analysis
capability) to undertake its role under the proposed aminision agreem.
4.75  The Government has ageed that  rket-dermid pricing will auply
to all fute BICE  eaons (i.e.. excldini the alread negotiated tranche
of the S o export credit faciIity). including irestment i r. and
export funds and loans. The interest rate paid by BICE on loans from the
Goverment would be set equal to its market deermied lending rate minUs
an agreed fee. Interest rates charged final borrowers by PBs will be freet
determid and without Govement susidies. A free inte  regime will



55
eue that BICE's intee rates on its assets and liabilities are consiste
with financial and capital maret development.
4.76  Fr m 1oDamuloLt hof  Emna  In the inrest of suplicity and
ease of execution, the project would begin operation with one facility, the
backstop facflity and one instrument, the bullet or extendable bond.
However, Argentina's financial markets are rapidly evolving and needs are
canging. Under such condions, flexibility is desirable. In the fituxre, the
Fund's activities could be enhanced in various ways, subject to agreement
with the Bank. For example, the Fund might become a market-maker in debt
obligations ( e.g., acing on its own account, as agent, or offerig public
trading or auctioning sevices). The Fund is expected to work with
underwriter, dealers and issuers to develop new debee smrucrs which
wil appeal to the market and fit within the broad guidelines of the BF.
Backstop products could be extended to additional matuities and to cover
other new debentue stres. The Fund could be privatized or made
obsolete by the maket's growing willingness to extend bond maturities and
accept Argene bank credit. Any additional activities would be fully
appraised by the Bank during project reviews and agreed upon by the
Govemment, BICE, and the Bank. Nevertheless, any new activities would
(a) always be linked to the Fund's core business of improving the market for
bank debentes and/or medium-term lending; (b) never lead the Fund to
bear significant fmancial risks (e.g., cashflow, default, cross-currency or
interest rate risks); and (c) always be priced at market-based rates.
4.77 The Bank would not require that proceeds of the loan be used for
specific projects. The Bank's approval of the use of the proceeds by PBs
from the bonds puchsed by the Fund would not be required and normal
procurement guidelines would not apply to the loan, except for US$3 milion
assigned to cover the Fund's initial expdir  (pra. 4.81). A backstop
com nt will be condoned onthe PB exding term eligible loans
(ELs, pam. 4.43) in an amount at least equivalent to the bonds to be
supported by the commitmet. The Fund would maintain a negatdve list of
ineligible industries (pia. 4.43). The Project Agrement would provide for
appropria  reporting to the Bank on the eligible portfolios of PBs and for
Bank monitoring tbereof. Pr me  to cover the Fund's inital
ependitres would amount to about US$3 million. The major componat
would be for consulting services for the Fund's adminisat   mamet,
and legal servie, which would be subject to the Banks consltant
guidelines. Other goods an4 servk*s required for the Fund's initial



56
OPPeIons (costing less thn US$50,000 per contact), would be procured
through local shoppw   procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.78  Te proposed loan is a new Bank lending vehcle. The Bank wll be
disbuing-if at aU-against financial instumn, not specific goods and
services. As such, it does not fa automically into any of the Bank's uwal
e_vIomental cagories. Sim:e te  Is no link between the Bank's
obligation and the actual use of the bond resources by PBs, it is imposible to
t&e the Bank's fimds or commitme  to the end users of the proceeds of
the PB's bonds. The project design provides for a condition that PB's
iease their portfolio of lELs - which would be subject to ex gp   checks -
- by an amount equal to their access to fte BF. This portfolio would be
subject to a negadve list (para 4.43)
4.79   Adding to the negatie list would either end up excludig virtuay
al Argendne industry or  bject us to the risk that somth   not on the list
will become a major pollutat. Requiing that the TEL portfolio be subject
to envit n no -lassessment (EA) procedus would demand either that PBs
do EAs on virtually all of their portfolio or that they prove that some
iMe  of their portfolio that matched their access to the facilt was free
Of             y advese loan. ITe first would force the Argentine bank
zo vetting virty  aU medium term loans in the cnry-something the
Govemet r ed as not required by any country in the world-which
could lead to din    an of the bankig system, and lead to higer
slip s-exactly wbat the project is supposed to reduc. The second option
is diply an         procedue with no          al impact
4.80  It is thus proposed tdat the project be tread as a "C" loan. This
qr  CaUtion. A          bas yet to establish sound envir tli conol
polcies, but the proposd loan does not seem a useful vehicle to deal with
this isme. Neverteess, eploration of how envi l concems can be
lind to such leandg vehis   wfll cone. If more such loans are
_arud, some link may prove useffl.
4.81  A smal part of the Bank loan (US$3 million) would be eamarked to
prove resources to cover the ial Fund expendiu, including te Fund's



57
administration and management fees and other Fund operational expens
(e.g., office equipment, supplies, and services). The Fund will need working
capital while it accumulates coitments that generate its income (see paras.
4.50-4.51). A special account would be set up with an initial authorization
of US$300,000, which will be replenished within the first three and a half
years after effectveness as eligible expenditurs are incurred. The
Government could draw on the remaining balance of the Bank loan whenever
required by the Fund to honor its commitments to purchase bonds from PBs.
Disbursements for this purpose would be made into a second special account
shortly before funds are reqired by the Fund to purchase FONs, upon
certification that the PB remains eligible and in the amount neded to
purchase the FONs concerned. The Fund would provide the Bank with
evidence of all PON purchases in order to request replenishment of the
second special account. Disbursements to the second special account would
be made against evidence that a backs   option would be exercised within
35 days. To control the pace of disbu    during the first seven years,
the Fund would make co    n  in discre segments of upto 40 pe,
40 percent, and 20 percent of the Bank loan during the first three years. To
disburse quickly enough after the seventh year, the Fund would make nw
commitment only up to the seventh year. Furtermore, com nts in the
seventh year would apply to bonds with maturities not exceeding four years.
These restictions would allow disbursements only up to the 11th year. In
esseme, the success of the BF wfll be measured by the extent to which the
Fund makes bacwp conmmitments that are not drawn down. While the BF
component of the lown may well disburse slowly or (hopefuly) not at all, its
impact will be measued by the amoun of backstop c it. The
ndisbursed amount would be subject to the proposd commtment fees (para.
4.22). An extended grace period of seven years is proposed to icrea  the
impact of the operation over the life of the loan.
M itorinm Riand
4.82  The Fund would be responsible for maintaining its aCcounts, for
preparing and submitting wixdrawal applications, and for maintaining all
records pertaining to the program's execution. Auditing of the project would
include BICE's financial saemns, the Fund's fiacial statements, the two
special accounts, and PBs compliance with regard to their TEL portfolios.
4.83 The legal documents would provide for a certficate at the end of the
origination period, issued by a PB, as to its TEL portfolio. The Fund and its
designees (including the Bank) would have the right to audit the PB to
determine the accuracy of the cerdficate. Furthermore, the Fund would



58
maintain separate accounts to record and monitor BON purchass, sales, and
redemptions. The Fund would report to the Bank on the Fund's
commitments and bond purcbases and redemptions on a quarterly basis.
4.84 All records and accounts in support of bond purchases by the Fund
financed under the proposed Loan would also be audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles by independent auditors accetable to the Bank.
BICE's auditor would be entitled to spot-check these audits.
Loan Suprion and Evaluaon
4.85 Supervision would inchlde continuous off-site sureillance of the BF
and policy developments, bi-anmual on-site performance reviews by the task
manager, and the two broad on-site fomal reviews covering compliance with
the policy program. Supvision would focus iniially (probably the fst
year) on t  estblis, promotion, and be-off of the BF, and the
growth and term structure of commitments. Later, probably during the
second and third years, supervision would focus on the growth and stuture
Of commitments, the BF's refinemt of procedures, and the development of
the policy program. From about year four onwards, the focus would shift
fom the   o        of c      e   to the performane of drawdowns
under backtop contracts. All thghout, spervision would closely monitor
the financial performace of the Fund. Resources to unrk  this
spervision plan would include the task manager and support from FSD and
the Lea Department. Annex H presents the timing and resource
breakdown.
4.86 Evaluation will first focus on the performance of the BF. The main
assessment will be a compaison of the amount of BF commit   with tihe
ma,umumrl amount that the Fund could supply. In addition, the analysis will
focus on the rformance of BON puchases in protectng PBs against market
disruptions and interest rate spikes. Evaluation of the project will also focus
on (a) growth of size and terms in the bond market; (b) growth of size and
tms of commercial bank lending portfolos; (c) allocation of lending to
small and medium sized loans; (d) development of capital market
infastructure. inclding sta       of debt secities and rating
agencies; (e) development of reglation and  pervisio of the capital mafrkt.
These wil indicate the extent to which the project and the policy program
suppoted by the operation meet the unamental target of developing the
capital madret to increase the ficing of small and medium-scale
enRprises.



59
Beneli wd RU9k
4.87 The main benefit of the project would be an increased availability of
long teWm financing tbrough develpmt of the capital maret to help
fince inesed private sector investnt. The main risks are resmption
of macno    instabilit (discussed in pams. 2.11-2.12), incuding
fbrtder strai on the bankig system; extended goverment interventions to
lower intrest rates; weak progres in bank supervision; weak demand for the
Backstop Facility; and weak development of ihe new secand tier bank BICE.
Thse events would undermine the capcity of PBs to molize long term
resources from the privat sector and undermine PB perface.
4.88 The appraisal mission conchlded that the Government is committed to
policies that preempt these risk, including a comnmtment to lmit intrest
rate interventions to levels consistet with the development of the bond
market; and actions to improve the Cental Bank's bank supervision.
Furthermore, the proposed          includes satsfctory
mroeconouc and interest policy petformae, satsactory interest rate
policies; progress in bank and capitl market supervision; ad -BICE
performance as conditions of contmied    it   following the review
pause. Compliance with these conditions would also reduce the risk of weak
demand for long-tetm funding and for the Backstop Fact.



60
V.AG_%Koff=EDAIO
5.1     i =    fo Lon Sre  d                       Dming
negotations it was agreed that the Fund would be established prior to siging
of the loan and that the signing or finalizadton of all other agreemens and
documents would be conditions of effectiveness (par. 4.47);
5.2   Ote eeme^. Other agements wer reached duing
negotiations on the following:
(a)   maintenane of macroconomic stability and its policy
fundamenals would be a condition of effectiveness and of
renewed commitments following two formal reviews (pam.
3.17). Tlr. Bank would retain the right to suspend
disbursements if    economic instabiity resumes;
(b)  the Govme  will not renew the exitig interest rate
subsidy progrm, which will be fully committed by mid-1994,
before the proposed loan becomes operational. Futhemore,
mnest rates chaged final borrowers by PBs would be freely
deteined. Te two mid tezm pauses will revw compliame
withese condio  (pam. 3.27). The Bank would retain the
right to suspend disbmns at any time if eih  or both of
these conditions were reversed;
(c)   CNV would coinue strog application of resolution 227.
Such appLication would be part of the policy program to be
reviewed durng the pauses in         (pra. 3.37);
(d)   enactent of a comphensive scheme of pdenal reation,
geared to the risk h        of the Argenne securites
market. This scheme would include capital adequacy rules,
including regulations to supervise these rules, to be introduced
before the first pause in commit   (para. 3.40);
(e)   terms of reference for CNV oazational review m   nt
audit and development action plan (pam. 3.47). CNV would
make satisfactory progess in the implemenion of its
orgnizonal review and development program (pam. 3.47).



61
Progress would be reviewed during the two pauses in
(1)   the Govnment will not reestablish tansaction taxes (isue,
,t , and purchase) on fimncial and capital market
transactions (para. 3.48);
(g)  the Government will mainta  the Lay de Fondos Commes de
!xsrai*tn regulations enabig the developmet of investme
funds (pa. 3.49);
(h) BICE's PB appraisal process would be consistent with Bank
O.D. 8.30 (para. 4.56);
(i)   market-determined prcing will apply to all fue BICE
operations (exclding the already negodated tanche of the
Spanish faciliy, para. 4.75);
.3   thiere will be two pauses in   itments to review progress of
the Policy and lnsttionl Development Program (Anniex B).
These pauses would be impeented afwer 30 percent and 60
peent of the loan has been committed or after 18 and 36
months of      eness, whichel comes first. Approval of
commitments would resume following a positive review of
program 
(k)   CNV planing of prna  reg ion sem  (pra. 3.40);
(1)   subsance of draft Fund priniples and rules, inclxdig Charter
and By-Laws; On-lending Agreement between Goverment and
Fund; Master Facilty agreement and Annexes; Administrion
Agrement between the Fund and BICE; and Financial
Manageent Agreement between BICE and the Financial
Manae;
(m)  Genra phps goverg tbe   e na   by the
Fiancial'Manager of fees on backstop co      and
interest rates oan FONs (pam. 4.41);
(n)   PBs should fli conditions spelled out in pan. 4.53;
(o)   covenant that BICE will opte excsively as a second-tier
instition(pam 4.74).



62
5.3   With the foregoing agments and            the proposed
project would be suitable for a US$500 million single currency loan to the
Argeni  Republic. The loan would have a tem of 15 yea, including 7
years of grace on repayment of principal, and carry the standard Bank
LBOR baed interet rate.



ANNEXES



- 64 -
s :      _                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14*Vw
to        tos       iSo       iou       tom se  11?          oss      tos          u       as        mrS
3DP woIIh                           6.7       6.0       4.0 4                                    4.        4         4.7       4 
OW6hdfpfmpp *W. oan-wL                  as        8.          8        1.        1A4       1.0      *90                            96        IL?
(UPA StrQ                             a0       .WA         0m7        au       8A        00        80        so        410       4t0       4647
TabS    m                             tO,?      18O       10.1      104       10.        O0*       001       00.8      00        00*       01.1
Pi                                   14.B      1*        1t        17 17*    t7A        VA5       17        17.?      17.8      17*       1S
PuM  (ama 4                           1i        0.        .0        0.        0.8        4        0.         0*        0.        8.0       8.1
t_Ida    GNA                          18.0      14.8      18.       10.1      10.       16.        17        17.7      1"0       10*A      18.
P8*o                                 11*       19.1      14.1      14.       148       14.7       14.       18.1      1.4       154       15.0
PiqmaSd                               1s t       .7       1.0       1*         20 2.              0          20   .0              .        0A
FOfSW    Et                            a.7                           SA SX"               ao       2J8        2.9       28 A
105ougg                                 1*        S         GA        SA        0o        G.8        64        5*        5.1       4          *
TCWQwtfue,w                            10W       1ZO        104       1SD       15U       18*       10.0      10*       10*       10*       1
Tw mtO tum                             10.4      118        10"      1as        10        10*       1i0 10*             10.       1t7      t1
E         d                            1.5       1.0        1.0       1.1       .1        1*        t.*       12        1.1      1l0       0Q
8odat8.aAy0hlg 0.                                1.1       1.1      0Q7        0A         0.9 *      A  O*              1.0       Is        iA
FSNE    -dtP                            0.2       0         0. O4               (84       (84       (4         8                     44
PuMo0a*Enp                              0.7        .?        1.0       1.0       1.        1.        1.0       1.1        .        1.         a
Omphl 5.....                            0.8       0*         .        0                    0.0       0.0       0.0 QO              0.0 0A
MPmdlW                                 0R        1.0       *O         1.0       1.0       1.0       1.        1.        1 A*                1.0
tIiwbSujPuc Sub oda8                    0.7       1.7       0.        0.0        0.8       0.1       e.        01        0*         .        0*
am14UbW 8UPb                            (8.1)     0.0       0.1        .1        0.0       0         0.2       02        0         02        0
O    Bbies                              0.6       1.7       0.8       04         0.4      0a         0.8       0.4       04        0*        O*
P*rft-V y                                        2.7        1.7       IA        1s        14        14        1.8       1.8       1.6       11
%b my 8UO       NO                   4*J6      0.0       47=0       4.08      4X05      44^0    4,9         GA"       SAN       SA4       %;n.
optOrWNd  b         U80=14           SA        4M         O1        MO        861       480e    4,1          04       5.          40      6UN10
Bvxen           F46  )88                   2oe       2,W        ,1IR     S4A        46804     4.6       4*04      4*01      4=        4,44
CpamlaNd P. 8R W                       t.7    1is0        147.0     100.1     1004      15        105*      11Z04     114*      1t6       10
pw 1   (t  fh                           1.1)      4.4       7*         7         6.0       SD        7.2       72        7*        7.        7*
83m a                                             elP 0*  81  as      0*         OA        7.1       7.        7.A       7A        8*        Ss
_Ql WNFSO tt W .                       6U8        73        4D        4.0       9.        4.0       48        4.6       4.        4.0 
*fvNl xOufWtGWP                   as        7D       7?*        7A        78         7A        79        7t        79        7J        7*
BQJh asU                              PAM?) IP107)  '( =              .       g61)    (7)    (O                100       01;       ."       SAN
ObtAesawtllaJ8a S O t)                P881)    (SA7)    (8*0(I(t0.169                                       (10.104   (10*14     (.P       (MI11)
~b3a408hrnw(IJSM                10.8      11.47?   t 0        10.7?    11.07      11t118    11,106    11*40      11*1      11*4      11*8
PibDC                               t8          1.78       so1       650       400       (16       868         74       604       701      1.107
PIds                                 0.004    0SAW        8.07    1000       1060    11ips      10*07    11.174    10.710    1OA.        10.147
# b O W *BdwW.O OWWdWP                   87)        4       (8        p4          4         4        PA        (4        (4        (84       (U
Td.Il (UOSM)                      08.86M     4014    100*0      110,700   11t. 30        1    10.70    14487      151460   1'WO       10
Parulp 01S U                         86r       706        4.0      OA"    10760   1a4"    I16.005    1               181.702  168t,00    14%7
mOw F4"Pkb.o s-uP)    MM.70                    St01060t   17,S0    17,       1640    1006    1000          10_8    108=    to0            1oan
TdaFoPU.Sodarot     w                04,05    60111    75000 I     , 75,5     T6.87     765       7A415    78*4    75M           74*0      7SA
udgLT,PubW&PIfetbod                4010      580        80        a".1      671       6wo         01      65.O      6.700    SA0        a
ofmoom                               670                 17M00     170AS     14        10*0      1.800    100"       10,78      l0o       SAO
TaeisO aOtP                            40.       80*        687       87.1      V74        87.8     87A       8         a0        16.       6u
tn*paom                               a0        0.         60.       81.1      81.      a0         00.       81*       81*s       Su        01
Fed" PuMfiSoda                       Z6*       gm        01*       10*       100       1t.7      1SA       14.4       1a8       124       11*
PidSodar                             4.1        7         0.4      11.7      18.6      16.8      16        17*        16        10*       1m
.ao 0D4pFoo Pa40r                     11 t.6     Sa         6.        8o        LA        aS        54        S.1       4.7       4.2       87
FaiOptSold-Op I      FI              68.0      46.8       4"        472       61        S1,0      4" 6      ai        S1t        504      45*
WRDCX08P  dWi                          4.1       $A        9.4                 as sa     L8        L8        ZS                   0.1       la
350 OSfiU,TfrFf. ft8L GuomtoodOu       a 1 &     a         o0        aa         A        ao        OA        84         A1         D        7.7
Prolau. OSDLTFgiPubOum.08 V           aDD       05.       07.8      01        #0.1      08*       814        60*       00.       810       ao
0amO _b_b40uhenhid.c~suuu1 ~b) a       15D      7g         4VA         LO        aD        07        W*       0"         0*       VA        on
o5 b*iatn 1f                           17A        7*        4.0        as        ao        0.7       0*        Z*5       Z5        a s
Pod 3bSunp Sob bid. (10871t0fI (       6g        du         d.        60.       40        40        40.       4O        40        406      4-
m1BmiRU                                                                          AA 4  6.  .0  7  8G 60        6.0A
c{OOI"IN bdtodl lZ t
MTbr_bodaudd40ndOtOaoSsut_4s11         brpld       *0*1r mssd.          0 "rd k                b dbi_touizltb
O Tlbdsbo t dgmod%t  bm                           polb, _ad, 103.
P W gd LrSdadowmsq
htEnd d^t
VPuiaduiusOA.



D. C           _fdI£E of Effe1herm  jdR0kE_                                                      _           _ _
,i,..-                             .I   .                                                                   -                              F      
pFIM Alm              T*u  o Dm                                          Effscdvum                  vim _P__                                         e R  O          w R
1 er.    Apad to a  it- 3-yar tbat Imgs  sa aud   ' fliq  ogs   was 3-jus                  Icoqbmw wish 3-jut mwomaul pogisi (if it    ConvilmUsaewih3vayw  azwemuict pe- (Ir k
minkam       If sub IM   d - wk to  am otfOF upodMiei locidlss        1nmroamc wgu IatPMM          b ha qbmI coawimed mutoominic stably)           tin W*poed coauMud  uacail Oshisy).
_bby           qmw  'y o .s
kw             GOA ha sedld  O Comm die             q       law w_ b                                M s sumd itsheuaceofafommofdie                  CNV _oM _ bm  evMesCeN  of _im _ofdie
Sq5wbuol   nlim   vbuM a            die CmV powerW b     pc pen_                                    n    nder _  Re_dm  227.                        mks unde Raokdok 22?.
macal   do     mams olde d mbdeVianoow  I    ,wIs,  by da
Vim            CNO  t eaIr t dIf  is mad ar_ lo od olde dmal. In
di bem. A CNV b         e  i power =r LW 17.811
=xhm=emaby Raobhkt22t (19l miii 1m' bug-                                                                                                                                             I
bk _dksaind mditie d idie   eabay.
UV
CHYIha slenly coasadba sad 9*    camym  wke     die $to*
£~agto moblj sh-e fitnuh    acezre la bIar matdde
Pau 'I         CNVs VW*  m           ebqianIy e  h    sf         Canlse                              D   oak plumng due CMV dos ada n siuk          CNV deiuminet lipid c_pl aft wlh     d ti-
Replah          nyamb  abandwoermrsa laiyluzmhnlan nynek                                           cayiss dule wi&.sh - rhrwihng asl and Indate     we Iug faumAtse ne salfoceasy sysatWM mad
luqusar IkU steps liev bees I   Idaef olapam npan aisadiem  syaei  rAetbndod otnypisi adequac                                       suieotbd of cayisi adequac ssymvkia.
radwuunuayi iatDif pre ;d _ <te lal nbs                                             uymvkl.u
P_S~~D*r PRr                                 p "                                                            bg                                                 Zi
CNV                                                                                                 CNV w1 bane _guehla b  alta             b       CNV WM ba  aciersi sam          g   I in
Dsdqulua                                                                orpulaatlesd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ review ad devlywaopro gra whic a hI uiu  of diearuimbldomaluIa il
foud. uls rme t ie uibda tingtbdadpmetpregzm ui hi foa= die WMk pimeof
PCs= to be nyaldby WoSmki Da ce niicdl          doosie bzubalabldl   peqato be  elpaa by
Dd_m                                            WsIDI his innicl 
MS             NoU Wm .  an. w^  tf. ad         of olumu  bd_dm   eb-                                                                                  -
-                                                                      U 



I~~~~ _ _f_
1 111f ft 
_ gg _'l 



67
ANNEX!Q
C. Ca"it Mlake Vatry    ar
1.    Converfit L4. The con         ity law, in force since April 1,
1991, sets the maximum exchange rate at one peso (after exchanging $10,Q00
australes for one peso $10,000 per dollar and limits the mimm  size of the
monetary base to the level of intrnational reserves, which can include gold,
foreign exchange, forein exchange deposits and bonds, and domestic or
foreign public bonds payable in gold or hard curnies. Non-monetay asset
are valued at ther market price. The convertibility law thus itoduces a
strong safeguard against inflaton. The convertibility law also probited
indexed contract; stplated that oblgtions in a foreign currecy would be
honored  rough repayment in that cuency; and allowed contrac
siulting capitalization of interest.
2.    CeaLlak  uGbr. The recenty approved Central Bank Charter
assigns to this institution the fundament roles of price stabilit and
suervision of fiial institions. The key provisions are:
a.   the president,   sidet, and diectors of the Central Bank
of the RepubLc of Argentina (BCRA) are appointed by the
Goveanment in agreemet with Cone.
b.    Centrl Bank lending is limited to (i) secured liquidty loans
(30 day redscounts and advaunes with a mini*um period of 45
days between succeeding operons) to financial institutions
with a maxwmum  utnding loan size equal to the Fl's net
worth and (ii) purchase of treasury bonds, the holdings of
which ca  increase by more than 10 pcent per month or
exceed 1/3 of inbernational reserves;
c.   the Central Bank is not authorized to guantee obligations of
fincal instotutons, including deposits;
d.   the payment of interest on deposits at the Cental Bank,
includig the payment of interest on required reserve holdings
of financial instiutions, is prohibited;
e.    frced ivestm        by fincia instiutions in Cental Bank
bonds are probid;
f.    FIsupervision is    gd   by povWing tha the
superinendet be a Cental Bank director appointed by the
(ovenmm, with  auhor on for enforcmt of



68
banking regulations (except issuance or withrawal of baking
pems which are dedded by the Board).
3.     1Ilnfndd ELNlt   ILE .  The LFE, the efowement of
which is en:td to the Central Bank, has the following key provisions
a.    To operate, an FH or any of its bran   must be authorized by
th Central Bank;
b.    Under the LFE, a Commercial Bank can undertake any
opeats except: (i) accept shares in its own equity as
colateal; (h) grant preferentl conditons to its dircors, its
mangers, or related parties. Furthetmore, a commercial bank
requires Central Bank    tion to run non-banking
activities on its own account and to assig a lien on any of is
asse. Other restictions are imposed by Central Bank
reguaons.-n
c.    The Central Bank can revole the license of an Fl with
shortfalis in solvency, liquidity, reserves, tchnica limits or
ratios, or capital  ent, Iwhee the FH does not submit
andfor comply with remedial measues;
d.    Disclosure of PI opeations with regard to liabilies is
prhbited-
C.    Deposit guarantee, in liquidation or bankruptcy cases, is
provided by first ptiority rights of claim on the HI's required
reserves for the first US$3,000 of checking depsits per
pers, second priority rights on other deposits more than 180
days old at the time of withawal of the banking license, and
d    prit rights, with prorating, on remaiing deposits.
Other assets are to be claimd first by liabfiities with real
guantees (antfa h       bO     I        , second by
liabie to labor, third by deposits (with first claim right on
depost of US3,000 per person and second clam rigs on
depositsmore than 180 days old, if not covered by the HI's
reses), am! fourth by BCRA.
4.         ql       R     _.  BCRA classfies HI's debtors and
requires minimum provisions as follows:



= - = - = =  *  _______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.
A~~~~~ 
111111  Iii                           -



70
requiments and stiffer penalties on nonpeforming aditor; nd requlr
bank to submit to the SEF long form audito' repous.
7.    Reyerne R         _   At present, a reserve r        of 40
peret applies to checking and passbook savigs deposits.
8.    Secudtiuudni   Act 1968 1   1. Thi is lh pDctd  w
goverig the securides market. It establishes the power and i_
of the CNV and the stock exchanges, and basic reqiree   for the publc
issue and tading of securities. It also prohibit fdlent
actviies and imposes penltis.
9.             1htAct 198  ad l                                  3 The
prinia law goveing the issuance ad trading of corpoate bond
bnstruments. It proves a famework for protectn of the intets of
bon     rs and requies ratgs by at least two independent ating agencies
before public issue of debt instruments.
10.   MutDual Fundg Adt.m    It allows both open and cloeel mutu
funds, specifies the powers and mponslbiliis of the promoter ofte a nd
and the fund           company. It also establises Mportat pectin
for inlvetrs.
11. Bo_c                  Law o f  1d
kin.of November oU     . Togethr, tes  move restiom on foreg
portfolio investment, remove stamp and traner    taxes on
tranSactn, reduce stock exchne  fees and eliminate fixed brker
commissios, and equalie the tax treament of capial ga  fo forp ad
domestic investors.
12.       1Te tax on capital gains was rpealed. A
federal    b     introduced in 1976 (Law 21,280) and amended by Law
23,562, taxed the tansfer of all securities at 1.5 percent (cash value of sae
of goveent serities in the OTC maket, wihi the excepio of tades
amg financial  tuto  (PIF) unless Fs ate sellg thr own post_);
0.75 pece  (cash value of sale of corporae securities in the OTC maet,
with the exception of t    among FIs unless Fa are sellig their own
positions); 1.0 pecn (cash value of sales of govenmnt securies ,ug



71
a formal exchage); and 0.50 percent (cash vale of sales of equities twough
a formal exchange). As of 10131/90, law 23,871 As of 08115/91, a law
(23.962) exempted coate bonds from the tansfer tax; and, as of
11/01/91, the deegaon decree (22W91) abolishd the tax altogedher. A
federal tax of 1.2 percent on dk tgp=            was redcwed to 0.3
in March 1992 and elimintd in July 1992. A Federa distict and
provincl aaves baee bev ied on documents suppotig lea
tanactions. The samp tax in the Fed  Ditict d  dtaxe       loans,
bonds, commercal paper, trades of equities, options and repurchase
agreements documented off stock exchange, and other commercial
transacons involving credit at a rate of 1 percet; and equities, opdto  and
repurCe    agreements documented on stock excag at a rate of 0.4
percent. The stamp tax in the Federal,District was removed by te.
derguatondecre (2284/91). Under the rely agred,
sixteen provinces repeaed the stamp tax on fmancial anacdons ad
insuce cona    for the productve sectors.
13.     PrT       Before enactme  of the dela on decree A284191)
the prfit tax applied to income from equit shaes and bonds, exepting
bonds issued by the public sector, which were exempt.   e tax rate was 20
percet for Argentine oporations and 36 percent for branches of freig
companies. The withholing rate on dibute dividends was 10 percent for
kideied residents and 20 pet   for non-idenified iivuals, ncluding
non-residents, and for non-collected dividends. Therefore, te total tax +
withholding burden on company profits was 28 perce  (20 per     + 10
percent of the remahing 80 percent) for profits uldmately earned by
identified reside  and 36 percen (20 percen + 20 percent of the maining
80 petren) for non-identified individuals. In April 1992, new lgidslaon wa
passed that unified the corporate tax rate at 30 percet and aboHshed the
axation of dividends. Thetefore, the totl tax burden on company profits
was raised by two percentage poiuts for identified resdents and reduced by
six percentage points for nonideified inibls, includig non-eidents.
14.   Tbe profits tax also applied to income (intere or realized capital
gains) on corporate bonds (MbljguioM  HgN iiabl) held by businesses and
fo        inv , wheras dom c resident individuals were exempt. On
08/06191, Law 23,962 exempted all income on corporate and public bonds
from the profits tax. However, it was reinstd for bonds held by hold
who ae subject to in   y  adjustment nrles pusuant to Argentine icome
tax law in July 1992.
15.  TauatioL L aCaMi Gh            A splific litu  SIM bs of 1S
percest, which applid only to indviduas, was repealed on 01/01/90.
Moreover, the application of profits tax to realized capital gains (as well as
othr income) on public bonds held by busine    and foreign resident
(domesti tesidentswere exmpt), w  repeaed by the deation decree.
16.  Taxedon                   In     on savings accon  s exempt
Iest on fixed team deposit is taed at rates ranging from 3.0 percent on



72
corrate deposit over 120 days to 7.2 percen on corporate deposits unde
120 days.
17.   Pamds Peformance of the prio pension schee in
Argentina was dismal. It was exclusively a pay-as-you go system in which
high contibudon rates eourad evasion, leading to unflfilled lea
benfit commitments. Th deficits emerged in the late seventies and wre
resolved throgh reducing benefits below legal pametes, eamaing taes
to the system, and provliding treasury transfers and central bank credit. A
key development with major capital maret mpLicatons is pension refonm.
The recety approved pension reform bill will maintain universal old age,
disability and survivor irae for depedent and nepenent workers, but
will rlace the public pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system by a two-pill syste
with mdatoy membship in both pilus.  he public sector will suply
te firt pillar, on a PAYG basis; this pilar will provide a uniform basic
pension amounting to about 28 percent of average salary. Ihe second pilla
leaves the worker two options: either contbute 11 percent of earings to an
additial public penson on a PAYG basis with promised beneft in srict
proption to contributions; or save the same amount in one of the pension
funds          lo= de Eos de Jgnw              I fednal) si0d by
the prvae sector and by BNA. The pension fumd option qapars to be more
attracie for young and middle-ged wors. The Governmt expects tat
about 70 percent of woers will inially choose ftis option, with the share
appdpaebing i00 percent over the next genraon. This would- inally malk
some US$2 billion aually available for pension fund investmet. The
alloction of th   invents in each fund will be subject to the maximum
pmentgs india   in Table 3. A shrcoming of the reform is the
establishment of a peson fur4 by DNA with hgly attractve coandio  fot
its members, inchung guarnteed returns in both pesos and dollas and a
wbsidy component thuwgh prohibition of a mana t fee. This would put
privatey supplied funds at a serious  sadvantage. Drft legislation on the
BNA pension fund recently sbmtd to Cogress may leave only the
guartee in pews at the intrest rate on BNA sving account. The
accompanying CMTAL would assist in the implntion of the penion
refom.
18.     _ t    s. Th activity of ivestment funds has been lmid
by the very same reasons that constrined the securities maket and by the
rstriction that these funds invest 90 peent of teir portfolio in equity
shares. Legislation has be  passed to fee limiht on investme     corpora
bonds (aLa de Pondos   hus e rs6n,. The new law (No. 24.083)
pohiebits the fumds to invest (i) in securities issed by the nqah
cotraIton or by other iwnestmen fds; (ii) to invest more than 2 pecent
of i  assets in   uities isoued by the mnagn corporation's coollig
entity; (iii) to inve in securities acounting for more than 10 perce  of iM



73
issuer's liabilities; and (iv) to invest more than 30 percen of the fund's assets
in a given Govermen securty. With the ae sm of the corporte bond
market, investment funds provide a needed mecbanism to channel savings
ftom individual investos. The stock exange is now adoptn a formula
first used by IFC, namely creating dieified A nti  County fmds, with
broady diversifiod risk bases ad listing at ladin forig stock exchn.
19.    8 e . Argentn's reiuace bas been in deep crisis. The
publicly-owned monopoly rsane  instiion (INDER) went bankupt,
with US$12 million in liquid assets, balf a billion ars on inurance
premi and roughly US$1 to US$2 bimlon of unpaid claims. Arreas on
insuranc preia derived from the poor financial sitation of sevea
insurance firms and possibly an unwiingness to pay a non-perfomAig
insmer. There are more ta 150 isure fitms; t ial and capital
standards  e said to be uneen. Like decapiized banb, cert  ine
fkms are said to be taking heavy risks at high premia in hope of rcvi
thi capital positionl   T  industry Is regulated by an inadue   is
20.  INDERs liabilltica will necearily encumber public fiane. "fe
govanment decided to terminate mantory  insurace with INDER,
exist  sice 1946, ad authorize isuoe compaies to reinsre filly
overseas a's of Januy 1, 1992 and dissolve INDER as of March 31st,
199 (Decree 171/92). A liquidating commission was established to manae
ilDER's liabilties until thy are 'extinguise". Th exisig tax an
isuane  policies (8,5 pcent of sance preia) will be eamarkd to
repaymnt of INDER's abties of about 1 to 1.1 billion thou t a
period of six years. In addition, the govenn extnded VAT (16percent
at preset, to be raised to 18 percet) covege to isurance and e
premia as of Mach 1, 1992.W Finally, the goverment establihtd a fund
to repay INDER liabites, with the exiting 7 percent sales    on0 podicies
earmarked to that find until the laities have been fully paid.
e/Inurane companies can reinsure up to 50% in overses companies. Several con_
doubly reinsu  the remainin 50%, given INDER's inabilify to honor claims.
1/The VAT is likely to icrease premia on insuance bough by famile, such as auto
inrac, by only up to 10% because insuae compaies will now be able to use an
istg 6% tm  credit on VAT.  h_s may end up paying less prem  becuse  q ca.
dedt JVA paid on purchases.



74
INSTUtON SERVICE                 cowv    CORPw                 COMmI
l~~~~~~~"   s
PRMARY MAN   STRUMU       S
OI   ant   bm*                                YuS               ask
DIII ups to a year                           yes       Swe    cmlYwabi k uat       _
o8ahup toYthees                              yy                f oab
Dai beon .v yms.en
Op h    s                         .bmmd,yhsbno
_unt. on_sads                                           so ________s            _______
'DCNDAR  MAR                   -- UT,UM.
NOWoesad b,f                                  esye Yunor Yuar ta emag
DBsh                                         Yu         ye  s pv t.nuktmbt
Opim                                                    yes
N ow     * aft                                          yes     .___ ___
___addlia  _e _e 7_ _ __ _ __ _
SEcONDARY MARKEyeTu                                 MtNa I T    &* &*S
.- -
- .- -
Punte Ezelmags (MRRI~X)                      ye         no     mon. MOd conan
.~ ~ ycaa                                       YuY.w.i
D&oskeryIaMNm                                ye         y      sur. Dfi ..
_ _ _   _ _ _._ _            _    _ .e               y.  .sr,eft



*  -   L I I         ~~1 1'III  [   1      1 W 11     1~
.      - X,     - - -  -            - l-     ||||W
0 ; 111111                1    1 I        1111L1d
. ~ ~--      - .  .           -  



76 ,
. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
. .
2~~~-                     . F                                                -  1 l Ir ptDt
LiI.o)I



77
ARGENTINA
Finmcial Deepening Ratios
1970-1993
Year     MI/GDP       M2/GDP
1970        13.7%       20.1%
1971        12.1%        18.2%
1972        10.3%        15.9%
1973        11.0%        17.2%
1974        13.3%       21.6%
1975        9.3%         13.7%
1976        6.5%         9.3%
1977        6.1%         13.1%
1978        6.2%         173%
1979        5.7%         18.1%
1S-0S        6.5%       21.4%
1981        5.2%         19.7%
1982        5.2%         16.9%
1983        4.4%         13.4%
1984        3.7%         10.8%
1985        3.8%         11.3%
1986        5.0%         14.9%
1987        4.2%         14.5%
1988        3.2%         14.1%
1988        2.8%         8.9%
1990        3.0%         5.5%
1991        4.1%         7.3%
1992        6.4%         11.2%
1-993       7.9%         13.1%
.,    ~oiirce: Se    iftom BCRAd11
MI = Curency + Demtnd Deposit
M2 = MI + Savings, and Time Deposits



78
ARGENTINA
Shuture of Bank Assets and Liablities
1991-1992
I._    _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ __             -     .1991      1 991
Assets                                  __
Cash and Reserves                           5.9%         5.3%
Crit to Public Sect                        21.7%         16.5%
Credit to Prvt Secr                        46.4%        52.7%
Otier Net Assets                   -       26.0%        25.5%
L;~bilidie8                             ___          ___
Prvate Sector Demand Deposits               2.9%          3.5%
Private Sector Saving and Time Deposts      9.5%         12.2%
Prvate Sector Dolar D sts                  13.2%-        16.1%
Public Sector Depst                         6.9%          8.3%
Debt lo Cental Bank                        37.3%        34.6%
Net Foig Liabiles                          10.4%         9.0%
Capital, Reerves, and Profits              19.6%         16.2%
Source: Staff esdmates from BCRA data.



_ . } X T X US....      ...  .. ..   ...
_  .  S   :      . ll0tillE!It.......... .    I  I S
_   ~~ ~. . ............  .. . 11M 1            11 :
9DN IN3d33a IVI1ONVNIdA  VNIN 139dU



-80
AaGBNTDI- Aimed Depostosi sIh  huma mm and Spruds
-                                         .S                     *   _    _    _    *    _    _    _    _il:
Y_    Mmih        NMi  D_ot RIM    Re DeposR.    4. Niud I_  Roe    U  LB*g Rae   N=mid Sp% i   Red 
MD  AIpa                      114S             ._5.0               1635             -57.0           49.0    SD
_epmst.r               190.9             481                229.8            -I.9            38.9          9.6
0_t*W                  127.1             26A                168.7             49.6           41.6         232
NoDswe                  79.              16.1                128              47.6           4a7          31.5
000186W                 79.4             35D                107.1             55.8           27.7         208
19    am"                     157A             .7.                 IS.9              2A            27.6          9.9
_ eYJ                  19L3             -90.1               237A              48.6           4.1           IS
_  b M                 135.1             25.1               190.1             573            60.9         32A
Aprl                    17.2            -213                 51.               1.1           33.8         226
UN                      188              43                  562              24.6           37A          29.9
u       D               20.6             46.1                46.8             14.4           26.2         20.4
_,_  July               21.8              1.8                49.1             24.7           27.4         22.9
_ gua             1,.9                   1I0                 42.0             33.S           25.1         23.6
-                   _     _SOuW  133             -O.                433              25.6           29.9         26.2
133              416                 383              21A            25.1         22.
N=-o           1        133       _      1.1                 373              40.6           24.0         243
Doawd                   15.7             17.1                46               4&5            310          31A
2         -y                  133              4-                   373             18             24.0         193
_   mi                  12.1             -5.1                34.9             142            22.8         193
Mardi                   10.9            '10.                 325               7.0           21.6         17.4
=-          -!                                                            a!                                      -  
APe                     12.1              3.1                323L             21.9           204          18.8
mop                     10.9              $.7                313              252            20A         t193
lua            9.7             .0*3                28.9              17.2           19,2        17.5
Juy                     12.1             -5.1                33.7             13.2           21.6        I3
10.9             -1.6                313              t6$            20A         I8I
-        8_pma*w                10.9              -Q4                30.1              16.9           19.2        173
_ O t                   M10.9 '           2.0                28.9            M186            180          16.6
_ Nisr                  12.1             20.5                30.1             39.9           18.0         19.4
_   tnm*u               133              14.7                33.7             353            204          20.6
193  bJmy                      109              0.8                 30.1             18.3           192          17.
Pinuy                   12.7              3.7                29.9             IS.6           162          14.9
MaUch                   11.7             10.4                26.5             25.0           14.8         14.6
AB                      11.              0.0                25.4             16             14,0         1
K1y                     103              .0.8                24.2             11.5           13.6        12
Ja                       9.9              8.6                24.0             22.5           14.1         14.0
Ju)'ly                  10.9              9.6                243              23.0           13.6         13.4
- Ai                    10.               7.4                22.0             19_ 1          12.0         I.7
-        _              'auiw   SS               2.5                22.5              15.4           13.7        12_9
-        0_gober                 S.8              2.4                22.0              14.9           133         323
Nomes                    8.2             17.7                21 t.0 0                        128s         13.9
_   1   S   8.9  16.8                                32.2           13           t5.4
-~. -.



81
Monthly Inflation and Lending Rates
.      .   A   m    m   .   ..m.   ... .. ..
so                  .      .....
20
-0
03.5    U.S    00.      8    U.S    U.6
03.42   arne   0.12    3143t  33.4
Yewnd *mth
1'  IV loton Pa
Real Annual Lending Rate
40~~4"
I~~~l                                                 -U Au IlllIH lnMlllll-U
30
I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ As   lITiEi l[l11m nIT     I rrrnj
130         .12               ... . 
I~ ~~4                                 .. ...       .  . 6
I                                  r_
-20
I          -40                         ln
l             I Ia   --  .n  



82
Nomlinal Spread  for FIs
_M42
. .o ... ;'                  .......111  11111111
so li i i i !B  wEL1~~~~~~~~~~~4o 
.12 lU2
70- ~   ~     ~     ~     A
Yewi am Mu"
It
10-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
,~~~~~            1          1           1



83
lo
ARGENIA CArAL MARINT D :LOPMMMN PROJEC
F. LOWARM    o f tbe-d b p   Fa
1.    Glosawy of Ternn Used in fis Anex
Adinistmtion Agreement: The Ai       n  A ment betwoe the Fuid
and BICE, described in Section 10 below.
Bank. The World Bank.
BF: The Backtop Facii  descrbed in Section 4 below.
BICE: Banco de Inversi6n y Comercio Exterior.
BON: A US dollar dIbateddON, as described in Section 6
below.
CMV: COmisiM Nacional de Valores.
Diafin  Cteria: The cria   for disquHato a PB fom a
backtop exercise, as contemplatd in Section 4A though D below.
Faciit Agreement: A Master Facit  Agreement betwen the Fund  d a
PB, as descibed in Section 4 below.
Finai Managemet AgreementM i e            tbetwe  BXCE ind ti
Finacial Manager descnrbe in Section 10 below.
Fin il Manager: An   ratony rognized fianial intion
eaged by BICE to cary out the fctiom  descrbd ina         E
hereto.
FON: A US dolar             ON issued by a PB p 8u  to the BF a
purhased by the Fund.
Fund: An ipend legal entity tat wil establish and be r   konsible for
Goernment: The Argentn Republi.
ONs: ObUgciones Negocibles (bonds).
Origination Peiod: A specified period aft  a backsop
puruant to the BF is made. durin which TEA must be orliutmtml



84
Pr          g     ,  i.e., ban  eligible to use the BF.
S4: A Sociedad An6nima organized under Argentine Law.
Tm: A term eligible loan made by a PB, as descrbed in Section 5 below.
VAT: Valeadded tax.
2.    Bic Sblrure
te World Bank (the Bank") will enter into a Loan Agreement with the
Arentin Republic (the "Government"). Tbe Goverment will ear into a
subsdiary loan agmemet with the Fund described in Section 3 below,
pursuat to which it will on-lend to the Fund the proceeds of the Bank loan.
Tbe Fund will use the loan proceeds to purchase Obligacionos NegoCiables
(ONs") issued by Participating Banks ('PBs") in accordmce with the
acstop Facit  ("BF") descried in Section 4 below.
3.     egl d      de   and  s  of he Fwnd
ibe Fund will have no opertons or than as relad to the BF. The Fund
wil be a Sociedad An6nima (VSA') established under Argene law. Its
shues will be owned by the Goverment. Under Argeutine law, an SA must
have at leak two sharehds  (whether individuas or legal entities). The
Goverment will thus have to deignate two minees for that purpose.
4.   hne Bactop Paclty
The Fun will offer a BF, the terms and conditos of which will be set forth
in a Master Facility Agrement between the Fund and each PB (each, a
'Fat  Agreement")W. Each Facit  Ageeme  as executed must
comply with a stnrd  form approved by the Bank. The Facilt
Agremet wil not vary in material respects between PBs.
Under the BF, a PB may request thatbackstop          be issued by
the Fund with respect to ONs (such b pd ONs being herein refleed
to as 'BONs")1 to be issued by the PB to finance term eligible loans
(ITSUO)LY to be made by the PB within a specifed period after the
-   n  bm (the "Oigiation Period')W. A BF mmme t fee woud
W  For a dbission of subject to be covered by a Facilty Agement, see Attcment C
11 See Sect  6 below for a dismussion of BONs.
MI See Sectm 5 below for a discussion of the criteria for a M.
MI A hyodhtca  rnology of "ve    in th OF is attached hert as Attacme  B.



85
begin to accrue on the date of the backstop commitme  or at some tim
durig the Originaton Period as BONs are isud.
A backstop conmitmet would provide that the PB could, before a specified
date (e.g., 50 days) prior to the maturity of a BON, give nodte to the Fund
of a possible exercise of the bactop commment with respect to such BON.
At that time, the issuing PB could seek to refnance the mauring BON at a
cost lower than tat of the related FON (as specified in the related backstop
commitment). If such lower cost financng is not arranged, the PB could, by
irrevocable notce given by a specified date prior to the maftuity of the BON
(e.g., 28 days), exercise the backstop commitme  with respect to such BON.
If the backstop commihment were exercised with respect to a BON, the PB
would, conuntly with its repayment of the BON, sell to the Fund ONs at
a purchase price specified at the BF commitnt  date. (ONs sold to the
Fund pursuant to the BF are herin referred to as "FONs.") Except after
such inrevocable notice, exercise of the backstop commitment with respect t
BONs would be optional on the part of the PBs.
The principl amount of the PONs to be bought by the Fund upon exercis of
the backstop commitmet would be capped at the lowest of (a) te amount of
the backtop commitme, (b) the principal amount of the BONs ornated-
during the Orination Period and maturing at such time and (c) the prcipa
amount of the TELs originated during the Originadon Period (except to the
tent such TELs were counted in the purchase by the Fund of any other
FONs). The iterest ate with respect to a PON would be a pre-established
multiple (aer than 1) of the interest rate on the BON it replaced. Such
mItiple, which migh vary depeqndg on the credit ratig of the issuig PB
and the tenor of the BON or PON, would be calculaed by e  inancial
Manager (as defined in Section 10 below) by refere to the mariet ates at
issuance of the commiment for   mts with a term equal to the term of
the BON and for istuments with a term equal to the combined term of the
BON and the corresponding FONW.
The BF is not intended as credit support for the BONs. Therefor, the
Facility Ageement with each PB wil provide that,    tding the.
satisfaction of all other conditions to exercise of the bactop c t,
the Fund will not be required to purcas EONs if any of the followig
conditions is not met at such time:
A. Ekial Padwn=. Tbis comprise thre elemen":
1. The PB's senior unsecured debt obligations must have a specified
minimum credit raig. TIh usness of this covenant would deped
on the reliability of the rating agenci1.
JI/ For a dission of the ftbctions of DICE and the Ficial Manger, seeAaac_ D
and E hto.
17/ See body of SAR, par  hs 4.62 to 4.71.



86
2. The PB would have to be in complance with capial adequacy ad
loan loss provisioning r seq nts of the bank reguatoz.
3. AddIdonal fiancial requiremes: (i) Capital should be at leas 8
percent of risk-weighted assets and conti es, with core capital at
least 4 percent of weighted assets; (i) rescheduled loans should  t be
more than 20 percent of portfolio, witi less an 5 perent of
portfolio reschedud more than once; (iii) individual expose leves
should be less than 10 percent; and (iv) at la 20 percet of deposi
mst be  ves    m enpecified liquid f c  inst    . These
repquiremets may be alterd over tme if necessa, wit th conse
of the Bank.
B. No  D. The PB could not be in dalt of amy cvenas or
payment obLigations under the BONs or a Facilit Areent.
C. No             . The PB could not be in payment defult under
any of its other liabilities exceeding- a threshold amount (which may
var by ating categoy), with a   ve-out for ay liabilt  diped by
the PB in good fith and for which adequate res    have been
estabHshed.
D. No. The PB couldnot be inmbutcy or
The Facility Agreemt will provide that bactop   _        may not be
signed or rasfred by a PB except (under spwecified        s) in th
cse of a merger.
S.    Twrm  Eligib  Low
One pwpose of the BF is to promote the etnsion of T.S. Qualification as
a TEL would be measurd mainly by term (a TEL would have to exceed a
cetain tor) and sector (subject to cetain specified sectr conntrtio
limits). The Fund would maintain a negative lt" (whih would also appear
in the Bank's Lon Agreement with the Govement) of ineligible inusries.
Th  list would ihcue actvities such as those involvig rdoactve
matrials, milita_ y goods and toba.
P9s should seek to asoertn as son as posile whether loans made quaf
as TEL,in order to avoid paymen of           fees for    I
dtat do not really exist (siwe thy are conditiond  on an event - mai  a
TEL - that ner occurred). The Facili Ay        shold outline the
method aod dming of that dIion (at a               a cerficae of the
PB shold be required and inpectin rigts on the part of the Fund and its
lN See Ane C to the SAR for a descripton of these requems.
J Seo body of SAR, pgrh 4.43,.for the detaid it.



87
designees wit respect to TEL docmet shoud be provided for in the
Facility Agremet).
6.    DONs
In order to stmulat the development of a liquid market for PB debt, ms
and conditions of BONs should be stndadized. Moreover, it may be
desirable for similarly rated PB debt to be promoted as flmgible so that
liquidity can be enhanced by the creat  of a uffiieny laWe "float."
Therefore, the Facilit Agreement will ea   stalard tms and
condtions (other ta as to rate) wbkbi BONs must haveW. No DON will
have a term of less than three years. ITe Financial Manager wi  also
consider steps to pomote liquidity in the PB ON markt, inclding possible
Implemntion of periodic auctions, theby iasing the aggegat size of
sales (ftough grouping of smaly rated BONs) and falitting price
discovery.
Altwugh it is expected that ftere will be no variaton in the nature and trms
of pmissible BONs (except as speified above), the Pacility Agee
may provide tbat, upon   *n       n by the Finacial Manar and with'
the agreement of the Bank, the Fund may expand the tes of BONs which
may be the.subject of a backstop commitnent.
The Facility Agrments also should provide a manmer to ensure that
prospecses and other offeig  or dacriptiv materials rlatg to BONs do
wot contain statm      suggesting that a BON holder can rely on the BF's
being avaiable to the PB at the maturity of the BON, and that such m
adequately disclose the limitations on the BF commimnt.
7.    PONs
Upon exercise of the BF, the Fund must acquifteely rnsferable FONs
with a term equal to or ess than that of the c sng BONs, provided
that (a) no FON wil have a tem of less thant ee years and (b) ie
combined terms of a BON and th cor o        FON must be at least six
years. Sof tem  and condidons (other han as to rate and
tem) of the FONs would enbance their slebty (U? by adding efficiency
to the process and by pomotig fungible tratment of such seuiies) m the
Argentine and Euro markts. Therefore, new issues of FONs would be
prearable, although the Fund may have limited discretion to ta  an existng
BON (e.g., it may have a ready local market tIat wold not rely on some of
the tms  ught by the Euto makets).
21 It is understod tht ONs issud by PBs are currently being offered in the dometc
Argentie market and in the Euro market. The Fay Agreeme   are not inted to
restrict s    of DONs to one or the oher of such marts. Therefv, it- is possible that the
Fwit  Agre       wil pwvide two set of stndad tms and cotons for BONs, one
fr d     ic oftri  and one for Euro orns.



88
Resale of FONs by the Fund could be lim!d by Arntn law, wbich
pem   public offerings of scurities to be made only by the issuer of such
seuries or by a registred commercial bank, sockbroker or OTC agen
Because of net capital and ohr requiemet applicable to such secuities
maket participan, it is not likely that the Fund would register as such.
However, (a) the Fund woud be owned by the Govanmen and woud be
performing a Governmentsanctloned role, and (b) the use of an agency
arrangement (as contained in the AdminIstratIon Agreent) with BICE
wold in ay even probably sads the applicable rltions. (Initil
disusion with the Comisi6n Naciond de Valores ("CNV") suggest tha
such an agency aangement should avoid the need for the Fund to register.)
Theialy, no additional cost should apply since the Fund would need
such a pme 's distrition capacity in any event.
There are practal rns reg  the fom and cont  of FONs to
be saleable in the duro market (e.g., a tax gross-up, a disclosure document,
a bustee and a place of payment in a world-wide money center). In addition,
in acrdae with typical Euro market offerings, PONs will not be
preyable, other tan based o increased cost of he tax grss-up. Although
the  may prve documenty budens ad coss, intay (by prepi
forms of te reqired documen  so that the exrise of the BF does not
re undue lead dme ad negotation) and ongoing (the PBs wil have to
update disclosure douments and pay truste fees), these do not appear to be
A decision to excise te BF commiment with respect to matuming BONs
will be made very near to the maturity date of such BONs, but CNV
appro  procedus  would pmt timely issuane of FONs. For eample,
when a PB issues BONs, it could do so pursuant to a "pogr     approved by
th CNV. Upon maturiy of the BON, rollover ONs and/or FONs could be
ssed by the PB under that program, provided such issue date is within five
yeas of the date of approval of the program by the CNV. Before such
oiover ON or FON issue the PB would have to fle with the CNV an
updatd prsectu and iomation on0 fte tms and coios of hie
rolover ONs or FONs (along with certah other docum on).
Argenine law has sevea            s     yeccly applicable to bank debt
soiet's. Tbese inchde dislosc requ_emem, legnd  rI and
prins on colateralizing the securitIes (with certain ceptions not
rdevzot here). I11Fwft  Agreemen  shoud requir that FONs comply
wih th requie t- of the ON law (nludig any requiremen  needed to
obtain the benefial tax tratment described under Section 8 below) ad th
regulatns of the Cntal Bank.
&     Tar BeneftUdr On ON Law
Unte tbe ON law, qalyng ONs are eligble for te following snican
tau benis: (a) inerest paid on the ONs, althugh deductile by the issuer,
b exemipt fron Argent    om tax; (b) capital ain realized on he. sae of 



89
the ONs are exempt from Argetine income tax; and (c) certain opeatlonk
and srvices relatd to the issue, subcripton, plaoement, amorzdi,
interest and caellation of the ONs and thek guaantees (if any) are exempt
frm Argentine value-added tax ("VAT'). The bnefits under (a) and (b)
above are not applicable with respect to local ON holders who are subject to
inflationary adjusm   ntles purut to Argentine  come tax law. The
Fund will likely be subject to such rules.
To qualify for beneficial tax treatent under the ON law, the ONs must be
"publicly offered" and the proceeds of the issue must be used as provied in
the ON law. This require a pre-filing with the CNV of the tasaction
documentaon. Several Eurc ofrigs by Argentine issuers have in the past
qualified, even wit  specific makting in Argentina. However, in this
instnce there are two steps to the relevant transacdon: first a sale of the
secrity to the Fund and then a possible resale by the Fund. Conmaon
shotild be sought from the CNV that they would collapse the two transactions
for this pupose and that they would not evion a timing delay which would
interfe with the smooth exercise of the BF. (Inial discussions with the
CNV suggested that te public offein  requiement shoud not be a problem,
asuning that the Argentine tax autoriti agee with the CNV's analysis.)
Since the securities must contain a tax gross-up, the loss of tax benft
available to ONs would become a cost to the PBs. They must become
comfortabl with the analysis, and they will likely require that the secuites
conin a "burdeome buyout- provision allowing them a call if the tax
treatmn or rate chadges.
9.    Tax       w s Revnt so tie J. .d
The Fund will be an Argetine holder of the seciies to whom the tax
gr-u would nt apply. The Fund wol hower, probably be liable for
income tax with kespect to interest income from and capital gaim reaized on
the sale of FONs. The cpot inoome ta rae is curey 30 pet.
Since the income tax would be on net income, and the Fund should have
offsetting interest exps    (repaying the loan from the Gove_nm  or fees
and expenses of operatons), the Fund should be in a net neutal tax position
(ignoring the hpact of infladti  on the dffer  timing of the interes income
and the ierest expene).
There is a I percent tax on assets, which the Fund wil also be required to
pay. This is, however, treated as an advamce payment on account of income
tax. In addition, this tax will be phased out by 1995.
The City of Buenos Aires charges a turr (gpows revenues) tax on
trancons such as those to be conducted by the Fund. Dependi  on
exactly how the FnWd's actives were           the rate potenaly
applicabl thereto would be 3 percet or 4.9 perent. However, tie televat
Ordinance contains an exemption for al tsactidons relating to ONs. he
Ordina0 e specifically excludes inet income and inome obtined through



90
the sale of ONs, and the e~empton is broad enough also to exchlde inecome
eared in the form of commien foes paid to the Fund.
The VAT rate is curenty 18 pereet. It is unclear wheher the Fund would
have to charge VAT on its acWvities. If it did, suh charm  do be offset
against VAT charged to the Fund.
10.   Managment ef the Frd
(a)   The Government wil select the members of the Fund'a Board of
Directors. The umber of Directs will be estblshed by the Cat of the
Fund.
(b)   The Fund would engage BICE to cry out the robe
descied in Attbament D here. These wi be enmbodied in an
administrion agreem  to be approved by the Bank (the A   t
(c)  The Admion A e    wil provide that BICE must hh an
inentonally ircognized finanial instition to act as financial manager of
the Fund (the Financial Manager"), withtbe fuci   descied in
Atachment E hereto. The Financial  M       and the agreemt puan to
which it acts for the Fundl4the "FincaI Manament Agreement') must be
approved by the Bank.
-'     (d)   The Administration Agreement and the Financial
Agreement will contain some fairly s4ndng c  on BI(t's and the
Financial Manager's discretio, respectively. Amot tbes are the''
fldlowing:
*   IBICE would select PBs puuant to utablshed criterla.
The Fund vmay not be levereged.
The requme  with respect  toe BF, incuding th atibutes of
TELs, BONs and FONs, may not be varied (eept with the cosnt
ofthe Bank).                                           -
*     SThee will be nles for-tbe methodolo appled by the Fi'iancial
Mnager to prFONi.  ,y.
lZ/ See boIy of SARP paragraphs 4.52 and 4.53.
ZZI See body of SAR, prgmph 4.49t
/ See Atac         E hereb. 



91
* The allocation of BF resources amongst PBs wv1I be limited by
rulesW.
*    The Financial Manager's decisions about when and at what price to
sell FONs will be subject to specified considerations>.
*    The Financial Mamger will have to make investment decisions with
respect to funds not invested in FONs from a list of pennitted
investments approved by the Bank.
(e)   Certain of the above-mentioned requirements can be included in the
Charter of the Fund. The Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
Government and the Project Agreement between the Bank and the Fund
would then provide that the Charter could be altered (in specified respects)
only with the consent of the Bank. Simiarly, any alterations to the on-
lending agreement between the Govemment and the Fund, the Facility
Agreements (including Annexes thereto), the Admini ataion Areement and
the Financial Mangement Agreement will require the consent of the Bank.
11.   Governing Laws
It is anticipated that (a) the on-lending agrem    between the Government
ani the Fund, (b) the Facility Agreements, and (c) the Administration
Agreement, will all be governed by Argentine law. It is lilely that the
Financial Manager would requie that the Financial Management Agreement
be governed by the law of its principal place of business or the location of
one of its prinipal business offic es.
Given the desire to have possible resales in the Euro market and to have the
BONs and FONs qualify for the tax treatment under the ON law, the
securities should follow the recent market practice for Euro-bonds of
Argentine issuers. That is, they should be a hybrid of Argentine law and the
law of tfr US or UK. Under Argentine law, the place of payment of a
security must be outside the country in order to give effect to a contacal
choice of non-Argentine law for such security. The related documents (e.g.,
underwriting agreements and fiscal agency agreements) could be governed by
US or UK law.
24/ See body of SAR, paragraph 4.42.
25/ See Section 7 above.



92
Attachment A: DocIments Relating to theBac"kitop Facilty
Docu ent                                        it
1. Loan Agreement between Bank and       Bank
Governnent
2. Project Agreement between Baik and    Bank
Fund                                         ___
3. Charter of Fund                      Government
4. On-lending agreement between         Government
Govermnent and Fund
5. Form of Master Facility Agreemet     Govermenat
between Fund and PBs                                                   -
6. Annexes to Facility Agreement:       Govemment
*     Form of BONs
*     Form of FONs
*     Form of Fiscal Agency Agreement
7. Adminnis on Agreement between        Governent
Fund and BICE
8. Financial Management Agreement       Govemment
between BICE and Financial Manager



93
Attachment B: Hypothetical BF Time Line
Date                                    Event
Comnmitmet Date minus 30 dayb.         PB requests BF commitment, identifying
proposed BONs
Commitment Date                         Fund issues BF commitinent with respect
to BONs to be issued
Commitment Date plus Origination Period   * PB issues BONs
(e.g., 6 months)                        * PB confirms TELs made
S PB reduces over-commitnent
Mauity Date of BONs minus 50 days       PB notifies Fund of possible BF takedown
Matrity Date of BONs minus 28 days      PB irrevocably notifies Fund of BF
takedown or non-takedown
Maturity Date of BONs                  PB re-finances in capital markets or issues
FONs to Fund pursuant to BF



94
Attachment C: Facility Agreement Contents
Set forth below is a brief outline of a possible structure of the Facility
Agreement. Suggested provisions are provided for-illustrative purposes and
are not intended to be exhaustive.
Section I -- Definitions: This section will define the terms to be used in the
Agreement. BONs and FONs will be defined by reference to specific
exhibits to the Agreement, so that the terms and conditions will be
stadardized. The TEL definition will incorporate limitations on term and on
sector of loans, including any sector concentrmion limits.
Section 2- Notices of Commitment: This section will provide the mechanics
pursant to which commitments may be entered from time to time. It is
contemplated that the terms relevant to each commitment (e.g., the principal
amount and term of BONs and FONs covered, the commitment fee and dates
and payment thereof, the interest rate applicable to the FONs, and the
Origination Period) will be set forth in a "Notice of Commitment' signed by
the Fund and the PB (the terms of which sha3l be incorporated by reference
into the Agreement). This section will further provide that neither the Fund
nor the PB shall be obligated to enter into any Notice of Commitment.
Section 3- Conumitments: This section will provide that:
(a) The PB shal pay the commitment fee as and when provided in the
relevant Notice of Commitment.
(b) Subject to the conditions specified in the Agreement, and
compliane by the PB with the terms thereof, upon notice from the PB to the
Fund (the timi  and mechanics of which will be specified), the Fund will
purchase FONs from the PB at the purchase price specified in the Notice of
Commitment.
Section 4- Represenions and WarAwtues: This section will provide
representations and warranties of the PBs. These will fall into several
categories:
(a) Basic matters, such as corporate oranization and existence;
authorzation, execution and delivery of the Agreement; validity, binding
naure and enforceabflity of the Agreement; no conflicts with laws, Charter
(Estatutos) or contracts; etc. These r tions will be given on each
commitment date and on the date of each FON purchase.
(b) Matters relating to the FONs, such as authorization, execution and
delivery of docaments relating to FONs (e.g., Fiscal Agency Agreement);-
authorization, issuance and de}ivery of the FONs; validity, bindn nature
and enforceability of the FONs and the related documens; compliance with
applicable law and thie terms of the Agreement wih respect to the FONs



95
(e.g., all requirements of the ON law necessary for tax benefits and all
requirements of Central Bank regulations); no conflicts with laws, Charter,
or contracts; satisfaction of conditions applicable to purchase of the FONs;
accurnte disclosure in prospectuses and other materials relating to the
limitations on the BF commitment; etc. These representations will be given
as of each date of a FON purchase.
(c) Special matters, such as ratings needed at the time of commitment
and at the time of FON purchase. These representations will be given and
repeatei at appropriate times.
Section 5- Conditions Precedent: (a) This section will provide conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Agreement, including any certificates or
opinions required, accuracy of the representations, and execution and
delivery of related documents.
(b) This section will provide conditions precedent to the obligation to
purchase of FONs pursuant to a Notice of Commitment, inchluding the
payment of all amounts due from the PB (or a netting thereof against
payment of the purchase price of FONs); the maturity of BONs; the existence
of TELs made during the Origmation Period; the absence of any
disaiffcation contemplated in Section 4A through D of this Annex
("Disqualification Criteria"); accuracy of the representations and warranties
then applicable; and the satisfaction of typical Euro-market conditions
relating to the purchase of FONs (e.g., delivery of FONs, related document,
cerdficates and opinions).
Section 6 -- Covnans: This section will provide a number of covenants,
imcuding:
(a) The PB shall provide various reports to the Fund, including any
audited or unaudited fcial statms, any reports filed with the Cental
Bank or the CNV, any reports sent to rating agencies, and any prospecuses
or offering documents relating to securities sold by the PB.
(b) The PB shall notify the Fund of certain events, such as a rating
downgrade or credit watch, an event or condition which would constitute a
Disqualification Criterion, the issuance of any securities (and pricing
information with respect thereto).
(c) The PB shall maintain certain financial requirements.
(d) The PBs shall provide the Fund and its designees inspection and
audt rights with respect to TEL and BONs.
Section 7- Amendment: Specified sections of tbe Agreement (including the
definitions of BONs, FONs, and TELs, and conditions precedent to the
purchase of FONs) may not be amended, modified or waived except with the
consent of the Bank.



96
Section 8 - Termination: Either party may trminate the Agreement upon 30
days' notice, provided that no commitments are then outstanding or the
outsnding commtments are not affected by the termination.
Section 9 -- Miscellaneous: (a) The Agreement shall be governed by
Argentine Law.
(b) No rights or obligations under the Agreement are assignable or
transferable. Backstop commitments are ransferable by succession (e.g.,
upon a merger of PBs), provided that the related BONs become obligations
of the surviving entity.



97
Attchment D: Functi  of BICE
1.   Hire Financi Manager. BICE must hire a Financial Manager on
behalf of the Fund. The Financial Manager must be an internationally
recognized fiancial institution approved by the Bank.
2.   Allocation of Commiments: (a) BICE shall provide to the Financial
Manager general policies to be considered in the allocation of backstop
commitments. Such general policies shall give due account to the purposes
of the BP (to promote the development of an orderly and efficient capitl
market for PB ONs and the extnsion of TELs) and outtanding
commhtments, and shall be subject to the concentration guidelines specified in
the Administaton Agreement.
(b) BICE shll inform the Financial Manager of any request for a
commitment. BIE may not issue any commitment on behalf of the Fund
without the appval of the Financial Manager.
(c) BICE must notifv the Financial Manager with repect to each
commitment iss;ued or cancelled, and sball periodically inform the Financial
Manager with respect to commitments outstanding.
3.    EstabUishment of Origination Period: BICE shall establish the
Origination Period, subject to the maimum period specified in the
Administrion Agreement
4.   EigibilIty for Disbursements to Purchase FONs: (a) BONs: BICE
must, by a specified date before any date on which the Fund may be required
to purchase FONs pursuant to a backstop commitment, ascertain the principal
amount of FONs (if any) that the relevant PB expects to sell to the Fund, and
notfy the Financial Manager thereof.
(b) TELs: A specified period after expiration of the Origination
Period for a commitment, BICE must confirm that qualifying TELs have
been made by the PB during such Origination Period. BICE may rely on
certificates from external inependent auditors satisfactory to BICE as to the
amount of TELs issued during such Origination Period. BICE must notify
the Financial Manager thereof.
(c) PBs: (i) Upon issuance of a commitment, BICE shall confirm that
the PB satisfies the eligibility requirements for PBs (as specified in the
Facility Agreements). (ii) Periodically BICE must confirm that the PBs are
not then subject to any disqualification for a backstop exercise, as
contemplated by Section 4A through D of this Annex (the "Disqualification
Criteria"`, (iii) BICE must confirm thit, at the time of a purchase of FONs
by the Fund, the conditions precedent to such purchase specified in the
Facility Agrnment have been satisfied (e.g., the absence of any
Disqualification Criteria). BICE shall inform the Finanial Manager of its findings.



98
5.    FON Purchase and Sale: BICE must act as closing agent for the
Fund with respect to its purchase and sale of FONs. This includes
confmation of receipt of FONs (which should be delivered to the Custodian
identified pursuant to the Adminisation Agreement) and review and
approv al of closing documents (opinions and cetificates). BICE must
instiuct the Financial Mager and the Custodian of satisfaction of closing
conditions.
6.    Selection of PBs: BICE Will from time to time select PBs. BICE, will
select only banks which satisfy established eligibility criteria set forth in the
Administrtion Agreement. BICE shall not refuse any request by a bank to
select it as a PB if such bank satisfies such eligibility criteria. BICE shall
notify such bank, the Fund and the Bank of any such refsal, and shall
explain the basis tberefor, in writing.
21. Termination of Financial Management Agreement: BICE will notify
the Fund and the Bank of any action taken to terminate the Financial
Management Agreement within a specified period of time after any such
action.



99
Attachment E: Functions of Facial Manager
1.   Determination of Conmitment Fees: The Financial Manager must
dtermine the fee chargeable with respect to bacp commitments. The
commitment fee may vary dependn on the term of the BONs, the term and
pricing of the FONs and the credit rating of tue PB. The comrnitment fee
will be set by the Financial Manager after consideration of the following
factors: (a) the purposes of the BF (to promote the development of an orderly
and efficient capital market for PB ONs and the extension of TELs); (b) the
financial condition and payment obligations of the Fund; (c) the market value
of the option provided by the backstop commitment, if determinable
(including the pricing of the FONs subject to the cQmmiment); and (d) PB
demand for backstop coitments.
2.    Compuaion of Available Commitments: After con4idetioni of the
general policies provided by BICF, the Financial Manager must determine
the amount of commitmen available to be offered-gkt any time. Available
commitments will be sivided by rating categories and by BON and FON
tenors. Computation of avalable commitments at any time must give due
account to outstanding FNs, outstanding commitments and the amortization
of the loan from the Bank to the Govennment. The Fund may not leverage
(i.e., the aggregate amoun of cowmitments avaiable at any time shall not
exceed the resut of (i) the cash and cash equivalents,9f the Fund plus the
amount at that tihe available.pursuant to the loan agment between thei
Bank and the Governent, mnus (ii) the amount Of ommitmen
outDtandi,g)
3.    Pricng of FONs: The Financial Manager must detmine the interest
rate for PONs to be issued pursuant to tommitmeria. Such interest rate
would be expressed as a pre-established multiple (greater than 1) of the
interest rate on the related BONs. Such multiple, which would vaty
depending on thetredit rating of the issuing PB and the tenor of the BON
and FON, would be calculated by reference to the market rates at issuance of
the commitment for instuments with a term equal to the term of the BON
and for insuments with a term equal to the combined terms of the BON and
the corresponding FON.
4.    Cash Management: The Finamcial Manager must invest available
funds of the Fund in permitted investments specified in the Financial
Management Agreement. Such inyestments should consider the timing of
any cash needs of the Fund, including any commitment outstanding and the
amortization schedule of the loan from the Bank to the Government.
5.    Sale of FONs: The Financial Manager must determine the timing and
price of any sale of FONs by the Fund. The Financial Manager should
consider (in order of priority): (a) the financial condition of the Fund
(including the purchase price of the FON); (b) the establishment and



100
operation of an orderly and efficient secondary market for PB ONs; and (c)
the ability of die Fund to issue fther co .
6.    Cutodial Function: The Financial Manager must act as, or must
appoint and supervise, a custodian for funds and all other amounts due to the
Fund. The purchase price of FONs and any other amount payable by the
Fund shall be paid directy to/from the custodial account. The Financial
Manager shall confirm to BICE all amounts received, and shall review
invoices for all amounts payable by, the Fund.
7.    Conflicts of Interest: In order to avoid even the appearance of a
conflict of iterest, during the term of its service under the Financial
Management Agreement th,e Financial Manager and its affiliates will be
prohtbited from engaging in the commercial banking business in Argendna
(other than as requued to act as cutdin) or in any busines with respect to
the purchase or sale of BONs or FONs (subject to etceptions specified in the
Financial Managment Agreement). Such restriction shall apply after the
Financial Manager's term of service with respect to BONs or FONs relating
to a commitment issued during such term.
8.    Secondary Market: The Fimncial Manager shall consider procedures
which would promote the creation and liquidity of a secondary market for PB
ONs in Argentina. These procedures may include establishment of an
auction procedure for prinary offerings of PB ONs, periodic solicitation and
publication of indicative bid/ask prices f  ouning PB ONs, and
undertkngs from underwriters of PB ONs to use best efforts to make a
market in such PB ONs. The Fincial Manager must obtain the approval of
the Bank prior to tbh implementation of any such procecu  which would
involve a payment obligation of the Fund.
9.   Market Developments: The Financial Manager will keep itself
informed about the development of the market for the PB's securities and,
from time to time, exchange views on the operation of the BF with
representatives of the CNV, PBs, underwriters of PB securities and other
interested groups.
10. Fundamental Changes: The Financial Manager will monitor the'
development of the PB ON capital market., The Financial Manager may
request that the Bank consider amendments to improve the BF (including to
expand the natum, term or type of permissible BONs or FONs, or to adjust
pricing or matrity parameters), or additional facilities, which will promote
the development of a liquid PB ON market and/or the availability of TELs.



101
ANNEX Cs
G. Backstop Fund Projections
The key aspdons in the forecasts of this amnex are: (a) the Fund commits
40 pecent, 40 percent, and 20 perent of the Bank loan respectively during
the frst three years; (b) the Fund makes frther commitents only up to year
seven and in amounts equal to the expired commitments nus drawdowns
plus bond redemptions; (c) the Fund earms yearly spreads over LBOR of
0.75 percent on cash investments and 3.00 percent on BON investments; (d)
ft Fund earns a yearly fee of 0.75 percent on backstop commitmnts (e) the
Fund pays a spread of 0.50 over LIBOR on the Bank loan; (<) The
undisbursed amount of the Bank loan would be subject to the Bankis standard
commitment fee (nw, by Board decision, 0.25 percent), except for funds
under backsop contracts, which wold eam an addionJ 0.15 percen. The
forecas a  presentd for two ateative exercise iios (ratio of
commtments that are exercised by the PBs) of 20 percent' ind 50 percent.
(l ~ ~ >1   -



102
BACKSTOP FUND PROJeCTIONS (USMIIIzn)
TMA            1        2         3        4        5         6         7J       8        9        1~1      II        12       13        14       is
NW CM        200      200       100)      64       128      128       1oo        0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
34s           so       so        40       26        St       64       so         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
44.           80       so        40       26        51       64_      so         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
6.10.         40       40        20       13       26         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
SXCM      ~~0       0         0       so       160       160      106       97       128      140       s0         0        0         0        0
3-6.      ~~0       0         0       s0        g0       40        26       St        64       s0        0         0        0         0        0
44.           0         0         0        0       80        go       40        26       S1        64       s0        0         0        0         0
3-10.         0         0         0        0        0        40_      40        20)      13        26        0        0         0        0         0
CU CM        200      400       S00      484       452      420      415       318      190        so5       0        0         0        0         0
3-Es         s0       160       200      146       117      141       166      114       so        ~ (       0        0         0        0         0
44.           80       160      200      226       197      181       191      1ts       114       50        0         0        0         0        0
5-10.         40       so       100      113       13        98       s8        38       26         0        0         0        0        0         0
lYnxt         0         0       s0       160       160      106       97       12       140       s0         0        0 ~    0           0        0
34.           0         0        80D      8         40       26                          so6  0                                          0         0
48.           0         0         0A      SD        80       40       26        St       64'       50        0         0        0         0        0
3-10.          0        0         0        0        40       40       20        13       26         0        0         0        0        0         0
BCK8ST                                    16        32       32      '21.       19       26        28       10        0         0        0         0
3-6.           0        0         0       16        16        8        5        10       13        10        0        0         0        0         0
44s.           0        0                  0        16$      16        8         3        10       13       10         0        0         0        0
5-10           0        0         0        0        0         8        8         4        3         5        0         0        0        0         0
EN RD         0         0         0        0        0.        0        16       16       24        21       26i       16       24        1S       15
346.          0         0         0        0        0         0       16        16        a         53      10        13       10        0         0
44.            0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        16       16        8         s       to        13       10
5-10.          0        0         0        0.        0        0        0         0        0         0        8         8        4         3        S
amN           0         0         0       16        48       s0       IS        88       90        97       81        Ss       31        15        0
3.4.          0         0         0       16s       32       40       29        23       28        33       23        t0        0        0         0
44.            0        0         0        0        16       32       40        45       39        36       38        33       23        10        0
3.10.          0        0         0        0        0         8        16'      20       23        28       20        12        8        5         0
INYS      ~~2        1        2        3         4        5        23       28       38        40       41        39       35        22        8
1N4DB-         3        0         0       16        32       32       21'       19       26        28       10        0         0        0        0
ORSOB          3        3        3        19-       51       83       104      123      149       177      187       187'     187       187      187
LN AM         0         0        0         0        0         0        0        13       16        20       26       28        28       28        28
CU AM         0         0        0         0        0         0        0        13       29        49       74       103      131       139      187
LN BL         3         3         3        9       5         83      104       110      120       12       113       84        56       28        0



103
_ _ _- I-.-.-4 - -                                                        rI - ]. _---
Bs*M  Ratio                  02                                                          NW CMNo:C NeWvl 
- 1.0                   -       X Cm.          .B3     C_._mu                               -        -_
out SaDs (Fr Fin years)                                     CUCM_ C_raV. c_n u. lolls
34s            J             0.4   I I                       Yuis            O oYear ackto Eposur
_4s                 0.4               l8                             Nw .ac..t  ._
-           -    -            -A  _ ,    -             -CtT                                               -"    -aip       -        -  
5410=                        0.2     =N =                       W            RON RedeN3tot==
Tranrog Shar.s                                       OS. .  __ _uogStoPS-SON HOldin_l
I                    ~~~~~~~0.4                      OMV: L             MM tw                                 I            -
2                            OA_0.4                         LN Utd.         _Worm 111k Loa A,tdon
3                            0.2                                           m-
kL _' I _ _ _S _ _ ~~~~~~~~CAPIT:                          i      ,Foo=i_,l .,p
-   -   -   - -   -                          I.                                         V   -        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-   -   -        -       -        -       -        - I.  -                                                     -  
CU    I  I CumhiwAnmduadm~~~~~~~~~~.. 



104
ASSET         2         1        2       19        52       85      108       117      128      1371     12        94        66       37 
lINVS         2         1        2        3         4        5       23       28        38       40       41       39        35       22        8
StoNs         0         0        0        16       48       80       8s       88        90       91       81       SS        31       is        0
1.1A111.1     2         A        2        19      52        as      108e     11?       138      137      122       94        66       37        8
TIES
LN DL         3         3        3       19       S1        83      104       110      120      128      113       84,       56       28        0
CAPIT        -1       -2        .1        0         1        2        4        6         8        9        9        10       10        9        8
REVENUES AND COMT
lat          0.0      0.1      0.1       0.7      2.4      4.7       6.S      74       7.8      8.4       8.2      6.7      4.8       3.0      1.3
Il    0.1      0.1       0.1      0.5       1.6      3.0      4.2      4.8      5.2       5.6      5.4      4.4       3.2      1.9      0.6
lhttg        0.0     .01       0.01      0.2      0.8      1.7      2.2       2.5      2.6      2.8       2.7      2.2      1.6       1.1      016
Pec Y        0.8      2.3      3.4       3.7      3.5      3.3       3.1      2.7.     1.9      0.9       0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Pteo         1.4      1.7       1.9      2.0      2.0      1.9       1.9      1.81     1.6      1.3       1.1      1.0      1.0       0.9      0.8
Nt Pa       .0.7      0.6      1.5       1.7      1.6      1.4       1.3      1.0     0D.3     -0.4     .0.9      .1.0     -1.0      .0.9     0.08
op. Y        .07      0.5       1.4      1.9      2.4      3.0       35S      34       2.9      2.4       18s      12       06        0.2    402
blq8s        0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      01l
Oatbi        0.1      0.1      01   1        0.1a          0.1      01        0.1      01       01       0.1       0.1      01       01        0.1
OpEip        08       as8      a   I8   08$       0        08s      0   0.8            08a      0.8       0.8      0.8      08        08       0.8
Net         -14A     .03       0.6       1.1      1.6      2.3      2.8       2.7      2.2      1.6       1.0      0.5     .0?       -06      -1.0
YTax        0.04      0.01     0.2       0.3           0.5      0.1   8       0.8      0.7     0as        0.3      0.1      0.0      402      .0.3
YAffx       -4A      .0.3  I 0.4         0.8      1.1      1.4       119      1.9      *5       1.1     .07!    0.3        -01       .06      -1.0
4.00%    LIar Raft                                              hat Y.            twust Riwast
0.75%    U/  pedlt                                                                 ntalpu
3.00%    SONS Spread                                            Ilr                aeMargoi
0.750%    Fee  laj SRaea                                                          F .      L . ..               --                       
402%     Of n'ni.&  mmko                                         tPs:                  __ P
0.40%    Poa on U.ndisb. & UCoammitd                            op. Y.            Net FerWn  II-a
0500    Phncalw Mamu itm Few                                    Oalk.             odurExpai
0050    OdherExpensis1                                          OPEip             Tutd OperatIg ixpauw
j             ~~~~Not Y:          Nvtlacone efrTases
I   I          V~~~~ Yea.        haome TM
~~~~~ -a-~~~~~~~Yfk                                   lam       aTU



,55=  = - = -=-~  = _     - =  =--* - =            =   =    =  2  = SI    =  5    =   -=  * =   =  e    =   -= - =  = - -- = _  _  _    .  _-=
L      _   0  0  0 o    o0 o  o       e o  o  o           e    o 0    o    o o   --   R a   a 0  e1 el 0  0           012
I      0  0   00        0       00   000            00   00 c0  o  o  o  o  o0             1°   122
1-0                0      0      0     00        0      0     0      0 -0                     0 -°°°-0  °°°°°°°°              °-   w             
00             0      _  c         co   a   o__               F_so                                 a  *a  o  N 0  |   g  87   
-   -   -8 -   -S  o-       -R-1i-   o-  o-  -   o -                                -   e-      -    l       l
r- <8          a      8' O    00  O  _  _               8  0           00       00                00               0  0        - T          
- _                                      -  -,ac              12°°°°oOO                                       le    l°   1"
L- 'a_   88      a   000              _                    --        3 -    0   0000000,i  |5 0   00 0   N  0  B~  0  0  |



- =- =        {--S=-  - 
I~~~~ -ITZ -   
II sa   a i XXll'  3
L-_ -e--_ =-e - ---- e 



107
-- - -- - - ---                                                                                                                     -
ASSEIl        2        1        2        43      124      207     W29       263      273      283      254   198          141       e3       25
INYS          2        1        2        3         4        7       51       63       91       99       104       96       87       53       25
l0OS          0        0        0        40      120      200      208             82          184      150      102       54       30        0
- - -= -= a -== - -- a - - -=
I.ABIU        2        1        2       43                2W       259      265      273      283      254       19       141       83       25
LKlL          3        3        3       43       W        203      251      254      25?      264      234       175      117       58        0
CAP1T        -1       -2       .1        0         1        4        S       12       15       18       21        23       24       25       25
REVENUES AND COS_,
ItY         0.0       0.1      0.1      1.5      5.8     11.5      15.7     17.1     17.1     173      16.5     13.6      9.8      6.3      2.9
[B          0.1      0.1       0.1      1.0      3.7      7.3      10.2     11A      11.5     11.7     112       9.2      6.6      3.9      1.3
loMi        0.0      40.1     40.1      0.5      2.0      4.1      5.5      5.7      5.6       5.6      53       4.4      3.2      23       1.6
Pe Y        0.8       2.3      3.4      3.6      3.2      2.6      2.2       1.9      1.4      0.7      0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Pe IS        1.4      1.7      1.9      20       1.9      1.       1.7       1.6       A       1.2      0.9      0.8      0.6      0.5      0.3
MPs .       .07       0.6      15       1.6      1.3      0.8      0.       0.3       0.0     *0.5    .0.8    -0s         *0.6      01      403
op.Y         0.7    05        14       2.1      3.3      4.9      6.0      61        S.6      5.1      4.5      36       2.6       1.9     1.3
M-gP        0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      07       0.7       0.7      0J       07       0.7      0.7      0.7
O_&         01        0.1      01       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      01       0.1       0.1      01       01       0.1      0.1    '0.1
Opp         0        08        0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8       08       06       0.8      0.8      08
Net Y       -1.4     *0.3      0.6      1A       2.6      4.2      52       5.3      4.8       4.3      3.8      2.9      1.9      1.1      0.5
Y Tx         .4      .0.1      0.2      0.4      08       1.3       1.6      1.6      1A       13       1.1      0.9      0.6      0.3      02
YAfJt       -IA      .0.3      0.4      0.9      1.8      2.9      3.7      3.7       3.4      3.0      2.6      2.0      13       0.8      0.4
4.00%    lJbor Rate                                            Ju Y:             ItuuI Reu"=
0.75%    DM/S  _a                                              Jul E:             nmat t    Es
3.O%    WOMS pea                                              ir                  umtMIT&                                    _
O-Bo wi                                      = =m  Pce Y:   PM_,    ==
0.75%    P. owmgPIN                                           PNL :              P                                                        _a
025%    Pee an U_do A       eaunlud                            Nt FE:       
0.40%    P, on Undb. &                                         op. Y:            No Opaat
0.200    AMvgPa:F=                                              &W               masnoum* PF
_         _        _                                     _       _-                                               I-      -
0.500    FIaa Maemm Fe                                         OdE:              )d_P1Me
0.050    Otd. Expams                                           OpExp             Todl Operatng E
. |      |        |        |          NeLY:             No        d I.. Bi  Tes
I -          -      Y Tax:            Jun11     TA X           I             -                 -
_ _ _ _                   _     T _v_
=                           YAff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I.snieA*or Tuea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



108
ANNH
CAEU&M MAR DKCELOIZU ZPRQ
B. Suwadon
EX Perm         im       W29Objcie Xf/Wqs
1994-9S:    H/Q         Pteparaion for     Task Manager       2.0
Effectiveness
Field       Launching and     Tasc Mnager        3.0
Promotion of BF    Capital Mart Spec. 1.0
Lawyer             1.0
H/Q         Takeoff of BF     Task Manager       10.0
IAWyer             5.0
Tota  22.0
1996-97:    H/Q         Review growth     Task manager       10.0
and Stucte of
Commitments
Review of key     Task Manger        10.0
policies
Review refme-     Task Manager       8.0
ment of Fund      Lawyer             5.0
procedur
Field       Review of Policy   Task Manager      4.0
2 Missions  Program           Capital Market
Supervision Spec.  4.0
Capital Market     4.0
Baning Spec.
Lawyer             4.0
Total 49.0
1998-2009   HIQ         Performance        Task Manager      55.0
of Commitmns and
Drawdowns and of
the Fund's finan-
cial performan



109
PY Period Place        QObjectives         Staff/Consul
Field       Review progress    Task Manager      6.0
2 Missions  in achievement    Capital Market/    2.0
of capital market   Baing Spec.
development
objectives
Total 63.0



IBRD 20450
BOLIVIA       /      60/
PARAG  AY
.   |  t  &, tAs        <0W W               X  B R A ~~~~~~~~~~Z I l
.-LI~ ~ANTIAGO! M
f~~ ~~             ~~              ~~~ INT ANT
SA~~~$A1
CHILE (
.   .  .  .  c H I L~~~~~~B E        s     }3  
RIO NEGRO 
-4
.         .           .tRR OV .  . 
7~~~4 ~ ~ ~ SNT              -,Y~                4 



