Page  1
November 3, 1995
Mr. Alberto C. Carranza
President
Backstop Fund Sociedad Anonima
25 de Mayo 526
Buenos Aires, Argentina
               Re:  Loan No. 3709-AR (Capital Market Development
                    Project) Amendment to the Project Agreement
Dear Sir:
          Please refer to the Project Agreement between International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Backstop Fund Sociedad Anonima (the 
Fund) dated November 29, 1994 (the Project Agreement), as amended, entered into with 
respect to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant 
to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend 
said Project Agreement as follows:
 Schedule 1
1.
Paragraph (c) of this Schedule is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (iii) 
(C) thereof and redesignating subparagraphs (iii) (D) and (iii) (E) thereof as 
subparagraphs (iii) (C) and (iii) (D), respectively.
Schedule 2
2.
Paragraph (g) of this Schedule is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (iii) 
(B) thereof and redesignating subparagraphs (iii) (C) and (iii) (D) thereof as 
subparagraphs (iii) (B) and (iii) (C), respectively.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective upon:  (a) receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of 
this amendment letter; and (b) amendment by the parties thereto of the Administration 
Agreement and Facility Agreements (as such Agreements are defined pursuant to Section 
1.01 of the Project Agreement) so as to reflect the amendments made in this amendment 
letter.  Because of his interest in this matter, a copy of this amendment letter is 
being sent to the Argentine Republicþs Minister of Economy and Public Works and 
Services.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
BACKSTOP FUND SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
Page  2
By /s/ Alberto C. Carranza
Authorized Representative
Date: November 8, 1995
cc:  Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services
