LOAN NUMBER 3709 AR
Loan Agreement
(Capital Market Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                    F  , 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3709 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       'I   wetA .   A 9     , 1994, between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by Backstop Fund
Sociedad An6nima (the Fund) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Fund the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Fund (the Project
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
February 9, 1993 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral
part of this Agreement, except that the portion of Section 6.03
thereof starting with the words "(e) the Bank" up to end of such
Section is deleted and replaced by the following:
"(e) after the date seven years after the date of the
Loan Agreement, any amount of the Loan shall have not been
committed under a Backstop Commitment (as such term is defined
in the Loan Agreement), the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower and the Fund (as such term is defined in the Loan
Agreement), terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Administration Agreement" means the agreement referred
to in Section 2.01 (b)(i) of the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Appraisal Manual" means Manual de Calificaci6n de
Entidades Financieras, BICE's manual approved on September 16, 1993,
which contains norms and procedures to appraise financial entities;
(c)   "Backstop Commitment" means any commitment issued by the
Fund to a Participating Bank, under Part A of the Project, to
purchase FONs pursuant to the Facility Agreement with such
Participating Bank;
(d)   "Backstop Facility" means the facility referred to in
Part A of the Project;
(e)   "BCRA" means Banco Central de la Rep6blica Argentina,
the Borrower's central bank;
(f)   "BICE" means Banco de Inversi6n y Comercio Exterior, the
Borrower's Investment and Foreign Trade Bank;
(g)   "BON" means "Backstopped Obligaci6n Negociable," i.e.,
a dollar-denominated security issued by a Participating Bank under
the terms and conditions set forth in a Facility Agreement;
(h)   "Charter" means the Fund's charter (estatuto) approved
by its shareholders on November +*, 1994;
(i)   "CNV" means Comisi6n Nacional de Valores, the Borrower's
Securities Commission;
(j)   "Facility Agreement" means    any  of the   agreements
referred to in Section 2.01 (b)(ii) of the Project Agreement;
(k)   "Financial Management Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 3.02 (a)(ii) of this Agreement;
(1)   "Financial MaLager" means the Fund's financial manager
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;


﻿-3 -
(M)   "First Project Review" means the Project Review to be
held during the 30-day period following the date referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(n)   "First Special Account" means the account to be opened
and maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of, and Section I of
Schedule 4 to, this Agreement;
(0)   "FON" means "Fund-purchased Obligaci6n Negociable,"
i.e., a dollar-denominated security issued by a Participating Bank
and purchased by the Fund, to re-finance a BON, on the terms and
conditions set forth in a Facility Agreement;
(p)   "Origination Period" means the period after the issuance
of a Backstop Commitment during which the Participating Bank must
make TELs under such Backstop Commitment;
(q)   "Participating Bank" means any bank, in Argentina,
selected by BICE pursuant to paragraph (p) of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement as eligible to enter into a Facility Agreement;
(r)   "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the financial
sector of the Borrower's economy, described in the Borrower's letter
to the Bank dated December 8, 1992;
(s)   "Project Reviews" means the First and Second Project
Reviews;
(t)   "Provincial Bank" means any bank owned by a Province of
the Borrower;
(u)   "Resolution No. 1-134" means BCRA's Resolution No. 1-
134, dated October 21, 1993 (Circular de Contabilidad y Auditoria -
CONAU 1-134), as amended by BCRA's Communique "A" 2152 of
October 31, 1993;
(v)   "Second Project Review" means the Project Review to be
held during the 30-day period following the date referred to in
Section 3.03 (a)(ii) of this Agreement;
(x) "Second Special Account" means the account to be opened
and maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of, and Section II of
Schedule 4 to, this Agreement;


﻿-4-
(y)   "SEF" means Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras,
the Borrower's superintendency of financial institutions, within
BCRA;
(z)   "SITC"  means   the   Standard  International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(aa) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(ab) "TEL" means "Term Eligible Loan," i.e., any of the
investment loans made by Participating Banks that comply with the
requirements of paragraph (j) of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amcunt of five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts to be disbursed by the Fund, under
Part A of the Project, to purchase FONs pursuant to Backstop
Commitments; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (the First
Special Account and the Second Special Account) in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the First Special Account and
the Second Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
(b)   The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a usage charge at the
rate of three-twentieths of one percent (3/20 of 1%) per annum on
the amount of any Backstop Commitment entered into by the Fund, such
charge to accrue from the date of the issuance of such Backstop
Commitment to the date on which (i) the amount of the Loan required
to finance the purchase of FONs under such Backstop Commitment shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or shall be
cancelled, or (ii) such Backstop Commitment shall be terminated
without purchase of FONs.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to Single Currency
LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or minus the
Average Margin as provided in paragraph (b) (iv) below.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from
and including the date of this Agreement to but
not including the first Interest Payment Date and
thereafter the period from and including any
Interest Payment Date to but not including the
next Interest Payment Date.
(ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)   "Single  Currency   LIBOR"  means   the   London
interbank offered rate for dollars, expressed as
a percentage per annum, reasonably determined by
the Bank in accordance with Schedule 7 to this
Agreement for the January 15 or July 15 on which
an Interest Period commences (or, for the initial
Interest Period, the January 15 or July 15


﻿-6-
preceding the date of this Agreement or on which
such Interest Period commences).
(iv)   "Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period,
the weighted average margin, for the Semester
preceding the relevant January 15 or July 15,
between: (A) the cost of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank or portions thereof
allocated to the funding of single currency loans
in all currencies, and (B) the specific London
interbank offered rates or other such reference
rates attributable to such borrowings in each
such currency, all as reasonably determined by
the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
For any Interest Period in which (A) exceeds (B),
the Average Margin shall be added under paragraph
(a) above. For any Interest Period in which (B)
exceeds  (A),   the  Average  Margin   shall  be
subtracted under paragraph (a) above.
(v)   "Semester" means the first six months or second
six months of a calendar year.
(c)   After the Bank shall have determined the Single Currency
LIBOR and the Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such determination.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, provided, however, that, if as of July
15, 2001 the Borrower has not withdrawn the total amount of the
Loan, the Borrower shall repay to the Bank: (a) the amount withdrawn
from the Loan as of such date in level repayments of principal, in
accordance with a revised amortization schedule to be furnished to
the Borrower by the Bank; and (b) the amounts to be withdrawn during
each year subsequent to such date in level repayments of principal,
in accordance with revised amortization schedules to be furnished to
the Borrower by the Bank. In no event shall the final repayment date
set forth in any revised amortization schedule mentioned above be
later than the final repayment date set forth in the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.


﻿-7 -
Section 2.08. The president of the Fund, or any other person
designated  by   him/her  for   the  purpose,  is   designated  as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause
the Fund to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of the Fund therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Fund to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
the Fund under an agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Fund, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause BICE:
(i)   to enter into the Administration Agreement; and
(ii)   to  enter  into  an  agreement   (the  Financial
Management Agreement) with an internationally
recognized financial institution acceptable to
the Bank (the Financial Manager), whereby BICE
shall delegate the financial management of the
Backstop Facility to the Financial Manager, such
agreement to contain terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including (except as


﻿- 8 -
-8-
the Bank shall otherwise agree) those set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BICE to exercise its rights and
to comply with its obligations under the Administration Agreement
and the Financial Management Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, the Fund and BICE and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Fund to cease
issuing Backstop Commitments: (i) on the date falling 18 months
after the Effective Date or when Backstop Commitments issued by the
Fund shall have reached the aggregate amount of $150,000,000,
whichever occurs first; and again (ii) on the date falling three
years after the Effective Date or when Backstop Commitments issued
by the Fund shall have reached the aggregate amount of $300,000,000,
whichever occurs first.
(b)   The Borrower and the Bank, during the 30-day period
immediately following each of the dates referred to in paragraph (a)
(i) and (ii) above, shall, jointly with BICE and the Fund, undertake
a review (the Project Reviews) of the progress in the fulfillment of
the conditions specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   If, after a Project Review, the Bank is satisfied, based
on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that the conditions specified
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (as applicable) have been fulfilled,
then the Bank shall, by notice to the Borrower and the Fund,
authorize the Fund to resume the issuance of Backstop Commitments.
(d)   If, after either of the Project Reviews, the Bank shall
have given notice to the Borrower and the Fund that any of the
conditions specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (as applicable)
has not been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the Bank, and, within
90 days after such notice, any such condition has still not been
fulfilled to the satisfaction of the Bank, then the Bank may, by
further notice to the Borrower and the Fund, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan which shall exceed the aggregate amount of
Backstop Commitments issued by the Fund until the 3ate of such
Project Review.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Part
B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿-9-
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and its agencies shall be the only
shareholders of the Fund. The Borrower shall not require or permit
the Fund to declare any dividends or make any similar distributions
to any of its shareholders. If the Fund is required by law to
declare dividends to its shareholders, the Borrower shall reinvest
all amounts so distributed as equity contributions to the Fund.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts for the First
Special Account and the Second Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish  to  the Bank   such  other  information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause BICE to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BICE to:
(i)   have  its   records,   accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year   audited,  in   accordance   with


﻿- 10 -
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited;
and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors; and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank    such other   information
concerning such records, accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Fund shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Fund will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)    any provision of the Administration Agreement, the
Financial Management Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Charter, or a Facility Agreement shall have been assigned, amended,
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived without the written
consent of the Bank, except that any termination of the Management
Agreement by BICE, pursuant to the terms thereof, shall not require
the written consent of the Bank and shall only be considered as an
event of suspension under this paragraph if the Bank shall have
determined that such termination was not reasonably justified under
the circumstances;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Fund or for the suspension of its operations;


﻿- 11 -
(e)   BICE shall have not complied with any of its obligations
under the Administration Agreement or the Financial Management
Agreement;
(f)   the Financial Manager shall have not complied with any
of its obligations under the Financial Management Agreement;
(g)   BICE shall have ceased to operate exclusively as a
second tier financial institution;
(h)   the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy   framework  is
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program, or, after the
expiration of the Program, the Borrower's primary operational
surplus exceeds the interest obligations of the Borrower's non-
financial public sector;
(i)   the Borrower's budgetary funds, included in any budget
approved for any year after 1993, shall have been supporting any
interest rate subsidy program to commercial borrowers which would
adversely affect the development of the Borrower's capital market;
or
(j)   interest rates charged by Participating Banks shall have
ceased to be market determined.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e),
(f), (g), (h), (i) or (j) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Administration Agreement, the Financial Management
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed and
delivered on behalf of the respective parties thereto;
(b)   a model Facility Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
has been delivered to the Bank; and
(c)   all action has been taken by the Borrower and the Fund
in order to permit that the procurement of goods and consultants'
services for Part B of the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan be undertaken in accordance with the provisions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Fund, and is legally binding upon the Fund in
accordance with its terms;
(b)   that  the  Administration Agreement, the    Financial
Management Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been
duly authorized or ratified by the respective parties thereto, and
are legally binding upon the respective parties thereto in
accordance with their respective terms;
(c)   that  the  Facility Agreements, when   executed   and
delivered by the respective parties thereto based on the model
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, will be legally
valid and binding upon the respective parties thereto in accordance
with their respective terms; and
(d)   that the action referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement has been taken and no other action on behalf of the
Borrower or the Fund is required for the procurement of goods and


﻿- 13 -
consultants' services for Part B of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date  '44      A c/4 05o         is hereby
specified  for the purposes of Section      12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
y Servicios Pdblicos
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA             121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                       197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of
the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
VRegional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the Loan
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Goods and consultants'    3,000,000        100%
services for Part B
of the Project
(2) FONs                     497,000,000       100% of the pur-
chase price
TOTAL               500,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) under
Category (1) of the table in paragraph I of this Schedule, after the
date three and a half years after the Effective Date.
3.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods under Part B of the Project not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent each contract, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to promote the development of
an orderly and efficient market for debt securities of commercial
banks in the territories of the Borrower and to support longer term
lending by such banks for productive purposes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Backstop Facility
Establishment and operation by the Fund of a facility (the
Backstop Facility) to provide commitments (the Backstop Commitments)
to Participating Banks to purchase FONs under the terms of the
Facility Agreements.
Part B:     Initial Operation of the Fund
Assistance in the initial operation of the Fund.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 2001
through   January 15, 2009                31,250,000
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to
be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
First Special Account and Second Special Account
Section I: First Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of
$300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the First Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Section.
2.    Payments out of the First Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the First Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
First Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the First Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the First Special Account,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
for deposits into the First Special Account at
such intervals as the Bank shall specify.


﻿- 19 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
and other evidence required pursuant to para-
graph 4 of this Section for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the First
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the First Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the eligible Category, and in the equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the First Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Section,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
First Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Part B of the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and


﻿- 20 -
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the First Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the First Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Section; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the First Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the First Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the First Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the First Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Section shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Section II: Second Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
and
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures for
the purchase of FONs under Part A of the Project and to be financed


﻿- 21 -
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
2.    Payments out of the Second Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Second Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
amounts for deposit in the Second Special Account shall be made as
follows:
(a)   The Borrower, through the Fund, shall notify the Bank,
no later than 35 days before any date on which the Fund may be
required to purchase FONs pursuant to a Backstop Commitment, of the
principal amount of FONs (if any) that the Fund expects to purchase
pursuant to such Backstop Commitment.
(b)   The Borrower, through the Fund, shall furnish to the
Bank, no later than 14 days before the date scheduled for each
purchase of FONs, a request for a deposit which does not exceed the
lesser of: (i) the Backstop Commitment pursuant to which such
request is being made; and (ii) the amount required for such
purchase of FONs. On the basis of such request, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Second Special Account such amount as the Borrower, through
the Fund, shall have requested.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower, through the Fund, out
of the Second Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as
the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Section,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Second Special Account, if, at any time, the Bank shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category


﻿- 22 -
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Second Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Second Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Section; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Second Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Second Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Second
Special Account.
(d)   The Borrower shall refund to the Bank any amount
deposited in the Second Special Account which shall have not been
disbursed within 30 days after the date of the corresponding
deposit, such refund to be made on the first working day immediately
subsequent to such 30-day period.
(e)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Financial Management Agreement
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Financial
Management Agreement shall provide, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, that the Financial Manager shall have, inter alia, the
following duties and responsibilities:
(a)   to determine the fee chargeable by the Fund with respect
to Backstop Commitments;
(b)   to  determine  the  amount   of  Backstop  Commitments
available to be offered at any time;
(c)   to determine the interest rate and purchase price for
FONs;
(d)   to invest available funds of the Fund in specified
permitted investments;
(e)   to determine the timing and price of any sale of FONs by
the Fund;
(f)   to appoint and supervise a custodian for funds of, and
all other amounts due to, the Fund;
(g)   to confirm to BICE all amounts received, and to review
invoices for all amounts payable by the Fund;
(h)   during the term of its service under the Financial
Management Agreement, not to engage in the commercial banking
business in Argentina or in any business with respect to the
purchase or sale of BONs or FONs, such restriction to apply also
after the term of service of the Financial Manager to BONs or FONs
relating to any Backstop Commitment issued during the term of
service of the Financial Manager;
(i)   to consider procedures which would promote the creation
and liquidity of a secondary market in Argentina for bonds issued by
Participating Banks, and where any such procedure would involve a
payment obligation of the Fund to obtain the approval of the Bank
prior to its implementation;


﻿-24 -
(j)   to keep itself informed about the development of the
market for the Participating Banks' bonds and, from time to time, to
exchange views on the operation of the Backstop Facility with
representatives of CNV, Participating Banks, underwriters of
Participating Banks' securities and other interested groups; and
(k)   to recommend amendments to improve the Backstop Facility
(including to expand the nature, term or type of permissible BONs
and FONs, or to adjust pricing or maturity parameters) or to create
new facilities within the Fund, which will promote the development
of a liquid market for Participating Banks' bonds and/or the
availability of TELS.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Conditions Referred to in Section 3.03 (b)
of this Agreement
Section I. Conditions to be fulfilled at the time of each Project
Review:
1.    The Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is consistent
with the objectives of the Program or, after the expiration of the
Program, the Borrower's primary operational surplus exceeds the
interest obligations of the Borrower's non-financial public sector.
2.    No interest rate subsidy programs to commercial borrowers
which would adversely affect the development of the Borrower's
capital market are being supported with the Borrower's budgetary
funds.
3.    Interest rates charged by the Participating Banks are market
determined.
4.    General Resolution No. 227, dated January 21, 1993, issued by
CNV, is being enforced in accordance with its terms.
5.    CNV's organizational review and development program, described
in the letter, dated December 28, 1993, from CNV to the Bank, is
being implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.    No taxes are being imposed by the Borrower in its territories
on financial and capital market transactions.
7.    Regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, which enable the
development of mutual funds in the Borrower's territories are in
full force and effect.
8.    BICE's appraisal of banks for purposes of their selection as
Participating Banks is being made as provided in the Appraisal
Manual.
9.    Interest rates charged by BICE are market determined.
10.   The Borrower shall have confirmed that at least 97% of the
banks operating in the Borrower's territories shall have: (i) been
inspected by SEF; or (ii) received from an external auditor
acceptable to SEF an opinion on their financial statements


﻿- 26 -
consistent with the provisions set forth in Resolution No. 1-134,
such inspection or opinion to have been made or issued during the
fifteen-month period immediately preceding the month in which the
Project Review in question has been undertaken.
11.   The SEF shall have initiated proceedings for the application
of remedies against all the banks which are not in compliance with
the BCRA's regulations, including but not limited to those relating
to minimum capital and provisioning requirements.
12.   The SEF is in compliance with the provisions set forth in
Resolution No. 1-134 in connection with the carrying out of its
operations.
13.   The Borrower shall have confirmed that no rediscounts have
been provided by the BCRA to Provincial Banks other than to cover
the liquidity needs of such banks.
Section II. Additional condition to be fulfilled at the time of
the First Project Review:
CNV has adopted net liquid capital adequacy rules with risk-
weighing formulae, satisfactory to the Bank, to be applicable to
stock brokers, and has initiated the use of systems and methods,
satisfactory to the Bank, to supervise capital adequacy of stock
brokers.
Section III. Additional condition to be fulfilled at the time of
the Second Project Review:
The rules, systems and methods referred to in Section II of
this Schedule are being applied in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 7
Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.    Single Currency LIBOR for any Single Currency for any Interest
Period shall be the offered rate for deposits in dollars for a
period of six months which appears on the display designated as page
"3750" on the Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may
replace it for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered
rates of major banks for dollar deposits), as of 11.00 a.m. (London
time) on the second day on which banks and foreign exchange markets
are open for business in London prior to the relevant January 15 or
July 15 (the Interest Determination Date).
2.    If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on
such service as may replace it, the Bank shall request the London
offices of four major banks to provide the Bank with the rate at
which deposits in dollars are offered by such banks on the Interest
Determination Date to leading banks in the London interbank market
for a period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest
Period. Single Currency LIBOR for such Interest Period shall be the
arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal
place) of such offered quotations as determined by the Bank.
3.    If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such
quotations under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be
the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth
decimal place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by at
least two major banks in New York City selected by the Bank on the
Interest Determination Date for loans in dollars to leading European
banks for a period of six months ending on the last day of such
Interest Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are
quoting such rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the Single
Currency LIBOR in effect for the last preceding Interest Period.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
1OR SECREtARY


