RESTRICTED
Report No. P-498
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its offiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its: accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their, views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY
FOR T HE
SINGAPORE PORT PROJECT
Aug.ust 3j 1966



REPORT AND RECOWMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY FOR THE
SINGAPORE PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$15 million to
the Port of Singapore Authority (PSA).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        This loan was considered and approved by the Board on August 3,
1965.  Before it could be signed, however, Singapore was separated from
Malaysia and the signing could, therefore, not take place. Resubmission
of the loan to the Board has had to await Singapore's becoming a member
of the Bank in its own right. The formalities have now been completed.
3.        The original application for the proposed loan was made in
March 1964. Field appraisal required a number of visits by the Bank
staff and negotiations were held between June 18 and June 25, 1965. At
these negotiations, the borrower was represented by its Chairman, Mr. Goh
Koh Pui and the Director of Administration, IIr. K. C. Rodley. The State
of Singapore was represented by Mr. Abu Bakar bin Pawanchee, Permanent
Secretary (Economic Development) in the Ministry of Finance. As men-
tioned above, the Board approved the loan on August 3, 1965. In March
1966, a Bank mission revisited Singapore to determine the effect that
the separation of Singapore from Malaysia may have had on the trade
and prospects of the Port and to update the information contained in
the original appraisal report.
4.        The draft loan documents were revised to take account of the
new Guarantor and the higher standard rate of interest on Bank loans,
and have been accepted by Singapore.
5.        The proposed loan would be the third to be made in Singapore
and the first under the guarantee of Singapore. The first loan was
guaranteed by the United Kingdoml and the second by Malaysia. The fol-
lowing is a summary statement of Bank loans in Singapore as at May 30,
1966.



-2 -
Amount
Year  Borrower                   Purpose         (US$ Million)   Undisbursed
Bank         on June 30
1963  State of Singapore         Electric Powfer     15.0            3.5
1965  Public Utilities Board     Water Supply         6.8            5.0
Total                                         21.8
Of wrhich has been repaid                     --
Total now outstanding                         21.8
Amount sold                      1.1
Of which has been repaid         -           1.1
Total now held by Bank            -           20.7
Total undisbursed                                             8.5
6.        Execution of both the Electric Power and the Water Supply pro-
jects has been satisfactory.
7.        Another loan of approximately US$10 million for the second
stage of the Electric Power Project is now being appraised.
PART II - DiESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        The main features of the proposed loan are given below:
Borrower:                Port of Singapore Authority
Guarantor:               The Republic of Singapore
Amount:                  Equivalent in various currencies of
$15 million
Term:                    25 years
Amortization:            In 41 semi-annual installments com-
mencing on September 15, 1971, and
ending on September 15, 1991
Interest Rate:           6% per annun
Commitment Charge:       3/8 of 1% per annum



- 3 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A detailed description of the project was given in the report
"Appraisal of the Port of Singapore Expansion and Improvement Project"
(TO-483a) dated July 6, 1965, which was circulated to the Executive
Directors before the meeting at which this loan was approved. A supple-
mentary appraisal report (TO-544) dated May 25, 1966, updating the in-
formation in the previous report, is attached.
10.       PSA was created by the Port of Singapore Authority Ordinance,
1963, passed by the Singapore Legislature. It replaced the Singapore
Harbour Board, all of whose functions and responsibilities it assumed.
Certain other functions previously exercised by State C-overmnent depart-
ments (such as the Marine Department) were also assigned to PSA. It con-
sists of a Chairman and 14 members representing official, commercial and
labor interests. All members are appointed by the Government. The chief
executive officer is the General Manager. Both port administration and
cargo handling have continued to maintain a high standard.
11.      Wghile the record of operational efficiency has continued to be
satisfactory, increases in traffic have been the cause of recurring
strain. Berth occupancy averages over 90% wThich, over tije loi-ig run, is
uneconomic, causes delays in berthing of ships and hinders adequate main-
tenance. It is clear that if the improvements plamned under the present
project were not implemented at an early date, delays and higher handling
costs would have serious adverse effects on the development of the economy
of Singapore.
12.       The political separation of Singapore from Malaysia is not judged
to be likely to have an adverse effect on Singapore's port traffic in the
near future. Both the traffic and the financial projections are, therefore,
substantially unchanged. Recent indications that political relations with
Indonesia wiill again become amicable, may mean that the present traffic
forecasts will turn out to be on the lowT side.
13.       The main item in the project is the construction of four deep
water berths.  Other items are a new port engineer's plant yard and work-
shop, replacement and provision of additional floating craft and cargo
handling equipment and provision of data processing equipment.
14.       Purchase of all major items of imported equipment and the
awarding of all major construction contracts will be on the basis of
international competitive bidding. The Authority's own rules require
competitive bidding for every purchase of the value of M$5,000
(US$1,660) and above. The proposed loan will cover the foreign exchange
expenditure on the project. The total estimated cost of the project is
US$24.2 million; the local currency costs will be met from PSA's own
resources.



- 4 -
15.       The financial position of PSA is expected to remain satisfactory.
It wzas set up on April 1, 1964, with an accumulated surplus equivalent to
US,$14 million. The debt/equity ratio at December 31, 1965, was 15/85. In
1965, the rate of return on average net fixed assets was 5.4,. PSA is con-
fident that a figure of at least 6% can be attained in the current year and
maintained in the future. It has undertaken to maint-ain a minimum rate of
6%. Debt service coverage from 1965 to 1970 will vary between 5.4 times
and 7.6 times.  PSA is a financially sound organization and should have no
difficulty in servicing its debt.
16.       In addition to the project under consideration, PSA envisages
further capital investment of US$28 million between now and 1970, all of
which it hopes to finance out of its own funds.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUJMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Port of Singapore
Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement betwTeen Singapore and the Bank and
the report of the Committee provided for in Article 3, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately, together with a dra4t letter of further assurances from Singapore
and a draft Supplementary Letter from the Authority regarding finances.
18.       In general, the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are in the
usual form. In the letter of further assurances, Singapore has undertaken
to obtain the Bank's approval for the terms and conditions upon which ad-
ditional responsibilities would be vested in PSA, if the Auth-rity was
asked to talce over the proposed free trade zone and the harbor facilities
at the industrial estate of Jurong. Singapore has also agreed to consult
the Bank on the conditions under which the Telok Ayer Basin will be vested
in the Authority. The "finances" letter from PSA incorporates, inter alia,
an undertaking that it will not transfer its dockyard facilities to a wholly
owned subsidiary except on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.       An economic report on the current economic position and prospects
of Singapore dated February 10, 1966 (FE-52a) was circulated to the Execu-
tive Directors on March 3, 1966.
20.       Singapore's gross national product increased annually at a rate of
7% between 1956 and 1964. This occurred despite a decline in earnings from
entrepot trade towards the end of the period due to the effects of "confron-
tation" by Indonesia. The continued growth of GNP was due to the Government's
success in encouraging new industries and to large Government capital ex-
penditures in power, transportation, housing, education, etc., supported by
expanded investment in the private sector. Singapore's basic economic



problems are to maintain a reasonable growth in incomes, to provide job
opportunities for the rapidly grow.!ing labor force and to reduce the level
of unemployment. Singapore s departure from Malaysia means that the
prospects for the establishment of a Malaysian common market, of rlhich
Singapore would be a part, are considerably less certain.  Howrever, thle
growth of industry in Singapore is expected to continue in spite of this,
although perhaps at a slower rate than if the common market had come into
being. In addition, the lessening of political tension betweern Singapore
and Indonesia is likely to lead to increased earnings both from direct and
entrepot trade with Indonesia, which may be offset to some extent by re-
duced military expenditure of friendly countries in Singapore. These fac-
tors, taken together with the resourcefulness, good judgement and past per-
formance of the Goverrnment and people make it reasonable to expect that
output will continue to grow at a satisfactory rate which will help allevi-
ate the unemployment problems, and that Singapore wTill succeed in its in-
dustrialization effort.
21.       Singapore's external public debt is small; it amounts to approxi-
mately US$27 million equivalent. Even if Singapore borrowed on conventional
terms all of the US$110 million which it is estimated to need over the period
of the 1966-70 Plan, this would raise debt service to julst over 24 of est"i-
mated current account earnings in 1970. Singapore is, tlierefore, considered
creditworthy for the proposed loan.
PART VI - CO1PPLIANCE VJITH ARTICLES C' ACXRKjt2T
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOIeW2JDATION
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to The Port of Singapore Authority in an
amount ecuivalent to U.S.$l5,000,000 to be guaranteed by
the Republic of Singapore.
RESOLITED 
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Port of Singapore
Authority, to be guaranteed by the Republic of Singapore, in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million



- 6 -
United States dollars (US$15,000,000), to mature on and prior
to September 15, 1991, to bear interest at the rate of six
percent (6%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Singapore Port Project) between the Bank and the Port of
Singapore Authority and the form of Guarantee Agreement
(Singapore Port Project) between the Republic of Singapore
and the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
WJashington, D.C.                                      George D. Woods
August 3, 1966                                           President
by J. Burke Knapp



