REPORTS DESK
WITHIN                                        RESTRICTED
,  ONE  WEEK                                       Report No. TO-483a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE PORT OF SINGAPORE
EXPANSION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MALAYSIA
July 6, 1965
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 M$    0. 33 US cents
1 US$ = 3.0 M$
Unit s
Tons = Revenue Tons, i.e., weight
tons of 2, 240 lbs. or measurement
tons of 40 cubic feet.
Fiscal Years
Singapore Harbour Board - July-June
Port of Singapore Authority -
January-December



PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUiMffARY
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                   1
II. GENERAL BACKGROUND                                            2-5
III.  PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY                                    6
A. Organization and General Powers                        6-8
B. Management                                               8
C.  Staff and Labour                                        8
D.  Physical Facilities                                  9-12
IV. OPIRATIONS                                                     13
A.  Past Traffic                                           13
B.  Future Traffic                                      14-15
C. Operating Efficiency and Additional
Berthage needed                                  15-16
V. THE PROJECT                                                 17-18
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                     -19-20
VII. FINANCE                                                        21
A. Past Finances and Earnings                           21-22
B. Transition from Harbour Board to
Port Authority                                   22-24
C. Future Finances and Earnings                         24-26
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOIMMENDATIONS                               26
APPENDICES
1. Cargo Statistics (Excluding Bulk M4ineral Oil).
2. ProJecti'dns of Cargo Traffic (Excluding Bulk M4ineral Oil).
3. Ship i14ovement in P.S.A. WJharves - Years ended June 30.
4. Daily llumber of Ocean-Going Ships Wlaiting for Berths -
.1   P--.S4A-. -harves.
5. Details of the Project.
6. Condensed Income and Expenditure Accounts and Cash Flow
Statements - Fiscal Year ended June 30.



Table of Contents (continued)
Appendices (cont'd)
7. Summarized Balance Sheets - as of June 30.
8. Statement of Present Debt.
9. Forecast Income and Expenditure Accounts - Years
ended December 31.
10. Forecast of Cash Flow - Years ending December 31.
11. Pro Forma Balance Sheets as of December 31.
12. Forecast of Debt Service - Years ended December 31.
13. Assumptions and Bases used in Financial Forecasts.
MAPS       1. IMIalaysia
2. Port of Singapore
3. East Lagoon Scheme.



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PORT OF SINGAPORE
EXPANSION AND IMPROWVMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.       The Bank has been asked by the Port of Singapore Authority, with
the approval of the Government of the State of Singapore, to help finance
a project for the expansion and improvement of the port of Singapore.
The Government of Malaysia has undertaken to be guarantor. The project
consists primarily of four additional deep-water berths with ancillary
facilities, port engineer's plantyard, administrative offices and float-
ing and shore-based plant. Design and supervision will be by qualified
consultants and international competitive bidding procedures will be
followed. The total estimated cost of the project is US$ 25.7 million of
which US$ 15.0 million is in foreign exchange and would be financed by the
proposed Bank loan. The project is expected to be completed during 1968.
ii.      The port of Singapore is one of the world's leading ports and
the principal seaport of Malaysia. It has developed over many years and
is the center of a large entrepot trade with neighbouring countries.
Total traffic over the Authority's wharves, excluding bulk mineral oil,
increased by one million tons from 1959 to 1963 when it reached nearly 5
million tons. Despite current Indonesian confrontation, this traffic is
expected to reach 52 million tons in 1969 and 6 million tons in 1974.
iii.     Congestion of ships and cargo is chronic and was partially re-
lieved by the completion of four additional berths in 1962. The present
project is the second phase of the scheme undertaken at that time and will
further relieve congestion and provide the adequate and efficient facilities
required to handle the expected traffic increase over the next few years.
iv.      The port was operated by the Singapore Harbour Board until 1964
when it was taken over by the present Port of Singapore Authority. The
Board's important Dockyard facility continues under the jurisdiction of the
Authority. Management, in the past, has been efficient and is likely to
continue so.
v.       The project will result in annual economic benefits of about
US$ 2.5 million in the form of savings in ships' time awaiting berth,
from reductions in the volume of cargo lightered and in cargo-handling
costs. The economic rate of return will be 11 per cent.
vi.      A strong financial position has been built up over the years.
Since the war, earned surpluses enabled the Board to make good losses sus-
tained during the Japanese occupation, to replace worn-out equipment, to
finance the first phase of the East Lagoon development and to accumulate
the equivalent of about US$ 13 million towards the cost of the present
project. The present development program of the Authority, of which the
project forms part, is substantial but the future financial position
seems assured.



- ii -
vii.     The debt taken over by the Authority amounted to only M$ 22
million (about US$ 7.3 million) on which the interest and amortization
terms are f'avourable. Most of the present debt will be amortized by
1972. The present debt/equity ratio is 10/90 and is estimated to rise
to 20/80 in 1968 and thereafter decline to 16/84 by 1970. Interest
coverage and total debt service coverage will be ample.
viii.    The project is suitable for a Bank loan to the Authority of
US$ 15.0 million equivalent for a term of 25 years, including a five -
year period of grace.



I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        The Project appraised in this report, for the expansion and
improvement of the port of Singapore, was submitted to the Bank by the
Port of Singapore-Authority on March 2, 1964, with the approval of the
Government, of thie-State of Singapore of Malaysia. The total cost of
the project is uS$ 25.7 million equivalent of which the foreign exchange
cost is uS$ 15.0 million, which is the amount of the proposed loan. The
Government of Malaysia would be the Guarantor.
2.        This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
of May 1964 and further visits of Bank staff in November 1964 and
February 1965. Information and data have been supplied by the Authority
and by the State and Federal Governments.



II. GENERAL BACKGROUND
Geographical (Map No. 1)
3.        Singapore is a small island, 220 square miles in area, at
the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula, joined to the mainland by
a short road and rail causeway. It stands at the sea gateway between
the Indian and Pacific Oceans.
Political and Ethnic
4.        Singapore became part of Malaysia on its formation in
September 1963, together with the former Federation of Malaya and
the two dependencies of Sarawak and Sabah on the island of Borneo.
5.        Political integration is proving to be a gradual process,
mainly because of wide differences in the development of the economies
of the respective States and the ethnic groupings of the populations.
The State of Singapore retains a large measure of autonomy, particularly
in education, health, social welfare, labour and finance, but not in
external borrowing since the Malaysia External Loans Act, 1963 has been
extended to all States of the Federation.
6.        The State of Singapore has a population of 1.8 million with
a density of over 800 per square mile. The majority of the population
is urban, the rest mainly working small farms producing little export-
able surplus. Annual population growth in Singapore is about 4 per
cent.
Economic
7.        The economy of Malaysia is based mainly on the export of a
few but valuable natural products, the most important being rubber
(accounting for 45 per cent of export earnings in 1963), tin (16 per
cent), forestry products and iron ore. In addition, the entreport trade,
mainly in Singapore, but also to a less extent in Penang, accounted for
about 12 per cent of total export earnings in 1963.
8.        Singapore has an excellent natural harbour, which, combined
with its fortunate position in relation to large areas of production
in South-East Asia3 and to important trade routes, has enabled it, over
the past 100 years, to develop a prosperous economy based almost entire-
ly on the port. It handles a large part (about 30 per cent) of the foreign
trade of the Malayan mainland and has developed an entreport trade with
a wide area of South-East Asia. The current per capital income of
US$ 460 is probably the highest in the Far East and compares with an
average of US$ 300 over Malaysia as a whole.



-3-
Entrepot Trade
9.        The economy of Singapore has been built up as a collecting and
distributing center between the industrialized nations and the developing,
commodity-producing countries of South-East Asia.   The latter extend to
(as well as the Malayan mainland) the Borneo States of Brunei, Sarawak and
Sabah, Indonesia (until recently), Burma, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Viet-
Nam. The raw commodities received include rubber, tin, iron ore, copra,
pepper, timber and vegetable oils, many of which are subjected to various
processes such as inspection, testing, cleaning, grading, sampling, sort-
ing, re-bulking, etc. They are then re-exported to other countries. The
reverse flow of goods consists of manufactured goods, including machinery,
vehicles, chemicals and electrical equipment, imported for re-shipment to
neighbouring countries.
10.       In recent years the pattern of entrepot trade has changed.
Imports of manufactured goods have risen substantially while exports of
primary products have risen at a much slower pace. At the same time, the
proportion of total trade to and from the Malaysian states compared with
other neighbouring countries has been rising, so reducing Singapore's
reliance on other countries. The relative importance to Singapore of
Malaysian trade has been steadily increasing and is likely to continue to
do so.
11.       The entrepot trade is important to Singapore's economy.   Its
activities directly employ 15 to 20 per cent of the economically-active
population and contribute 20 to 30 per cent of the State's income. A large
part of the rest of the population is also dependent on this trade through
services such as warehousing, brokerage, banking, insurance, and port
operations.
Economic Integration
12.       Singapore is one of the largest free ports in the world.   Customs
duties are levied on very few items such as tobacco and alcoholic beverageo
and traffic moves freely into and out of the port with the minimum of
customs interference necessary for control of dutiable items. A separate
free trade zone has therefore not been necessary in the past.
13.       An important consideration in setting up the new Federation of
Malaysia, particularly for Singapore's industries, was the economic benefits
to be derived from a wider, stronger common market composed of the con-
stituent States. This involves the introduction of protective tariffs,
previously unknown in Singapore and the extension of revenue-earning tariffs.



-4-
Singapore would cease to be a free trade area as a whole and special
free trade zones would be set up. Planning of' such zones has started.
The first step towards a common market has been taken by the establishment
of a Tariff Advisory Board which has started operations.
14.       These developments will cause substantial changes in the tradi-
tional entrepot activities but the Governments properly consider that by
introducing them gradually the disruptive effects will be minimized and
that the ultimate result will be to broaden and strengthen the entrepot
trade and the industrial economy.
Indonesian Confrontation
15.       An immediate result of the formation of the Federation of Malaysia
in September 1963 was Lndonesian "confrontation" involving official prohibi-
tion by Indonesia of all trade with Malaysia. Howiever, a certain amount of
Indonesia's exports still find their way to Singapore as Indonesia has
neither the facilities nor the expertise to grade or process and find overseac
markets for her produce that the entrepreneurs of Singapore have deve;oped
over the years.  Foodstuffs (e.g. rice) formerly imported from Indonesia
for consumption in Malaya have been replaced by imports from other
countries such as Thailand and Burma. "Confrontation" has affected the
trade of Singapore as a wholebut thiseffect wias less severe on the volume
of deep-sea traffic actually passing over the wharves of the Port of Singa-
pore Authority than on the coastal and lighterage traffi.c handled by ships
at anchor.
Other Ports in Malaya
16.       The only two important deep-water commercial ports of the Y'alayan
mainland, other than Singapore, are Penang-ButteruTorth and Port Swettenhan.
They are both on the Wllest coast, about 400 and 250 miles, respectively, from
Singapore, and handle about 4 million and 2 million tons per annum.  At
Penang about one-half of the traffic is lightered but six new berths are
under construction. Until recently, a substantial part of the Port Swetten-
ham traffic was lightered but in 1963 a new four-berth port was completed
at a new site. There are also minor ports such as l4alacca and Port Dickson
and various small coastal ports, none of which handles significant volume3
of traffic.
17.       On the East coast, the only ports of importance are privately
owned for the export of bulk iron ore, mainly to Japan. There are also
various small ports serving the coastal trade.
Singapore Service Area
18.       Apart from the wider scope of the entrepot trade,Singapore serves
as a general-purpose port for a considerable area on the M4alayan mainland,
This is divided by a longitudinal mountain range and, at present, has poor



lateral communications. The three main ports serve the western sector
approximately equally; Singapore north to Malacca, Port Swettenham from
rLalacca to Ipoh, including the capital city of Kuala Lumpur, and Penang-
Butterworth the remainder. Both East and TWest areas are predominantly agri-
cultural, with rubber as the main product, the VWest being generally the more
highly developed and populated.
19.       The Eastern part of the country is served by a railway line
between Kota Bharu, in the North-east corner, and Singapore, which, combined
with the lack of lateral routes to the other West coast ports, the develop-
ment of coastal shipping routes and the facilities and expertise of the
Singapore Port and entrepot trade,has made Singapore the natural outlet for
much of the region's exports, especially rubber, and the port of entry for
much of its import requirements.
20.       However, the service areas are not sharply defined and the pattern
of trade will be affected to an unknowJn degree by the present transportation
investment program. A highway between Singapore and I(uantan on the East
coast is expected to be completed in 1965 and will provide a tarough road
between Singapore and Kota Bharu. It will undoubtedly influence a shift of
the traffic of Kuantan and the North-Central region from Port Swettenham to
Singapore. On the other hand, construction of a new East-Wlest highway *-rill
connect the enlarged port of Penang-Butterworth with the North-east coast
and will tend to divert some of that region's traffic away from Singapore.
On balance, and taking into account Singapore's modern and efficient facili-
ties for handling rubber and other produce, and the traditional role of its
entrepot traders, the proportion of the total trade of Malaysia using the
port facilities of Singapore is likely to continue to increase.



- 6 -
III. PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY
A. Organization and General Pbwers
21.      The Port of Singapore Authority was established by the Port of
Singapore Authority Ordinance, 1963 of the State of Singapore. Some parts
of the Ordinance came into operation on April 1, and the others on May 1,
1964. Under the Ordinance all the functions, assets and liabilities of the
Singapore Harbour Board and certain other functions previously exercised
by State Government departments, together with the assets and liabilities
connected with those functions, were transferred to the Authority. The
Singapore Harbour Board thereupon ceased to exist. The State of Singapore
has agreed to consult with the Bank before proposing amendment or repeal
of certain specified provisions of the Ordinance which would materially
affect the powers, duties, functions or responsibilities of the Authority
and the Authority has agreed that the bringing into operation of any such
amendment or repeal without the agreement of the Bank will be an event
of default.
22.      The Ordinance provides for the promotion of an incorporated
private limited company, to be known as the Singapore Drydocks and
Engineering Company Limited, to take over the dockyard undertakings of
the Authority. The Authority would provide the necessary capital and own
all the shares. The State Government and the Authority consider that no
advantage would be gained by implementing this provision at present and
do not contemplate doing so in the near future. The Bank concurs in this.
However, any transfer of the dockyard facilities to a separate company
in the future would affect the finances of the remaining functions of the
Authority and the Authority has agreed that it will not effect any such
transfer unless the terms and conditions thereof are mutually satisfactory
to the Bank and the Authority.
23.      The Authority is a body corporate with perpetual succession. It
may sue and be sued in its corporate name and has power to acquire, hold
and dispose of property. The Authority has all the powers necessary for
the discharge of its duties subject to the right of the Minister to give
general and specific directions. It consists of 15 members appointed by
the Minister responsible for port matters and who at present is the Min-
ister of Law. Of the 15 members, one is the Chairman, three represent
the Government of the State of Singapore and one represents the Government
of Malaysia. The remaining ten members are to have knowledge of, or ex-
perience or interest in, shipping matters; at present one represents labour,
one the Singapore Economic Development Board and eight represent various
bodies of port users and Chambers of Commerce. According to the Ordinance,
all members hold office for three years. Meetings are called by the Chair-
man not less frequently than once a month.
24.      The autonomy of the Authority is restricted under the Ordinance in
certain material matters, some of which are referred to below in this
chapter and others in chapter VII - Finance. In addition, the Ordinance
gives to the Minister the power, after consultation with the Authority,
to give general directions, not inconsistent with the Ordinance, as to
the Authorityts functions in relation to matters affecting the interests



- 7 -
of Singapore and specific directions to remedy any defect in the working
arrangements of the Authority. The Minister may also, if he is of the
opinion that an investigation should be made into the discharging by the
Authority of its functions, appoint a committee of enquiry, with the
ultimate right, with the approval of the Legislative Assembly, to transfer
to himself any of the functions of the Authority.
25.      In recent years the Singapore Harbour Board and, latterly, the
Authority have come under the jurisdiction of three different State Minis-
tries. There have also been frequent changes in the Office of Chairman,
there having been five changes in this appointment since 1961.
26.      In connection with the matters referred to in paragraphs 24 and
25, above, the State of Singapore agrees with the views of the Bank that it
is necessary that the Authority possess the highest degree of autonomy com-
patible with the Ordinance and that there be continuity in the management of
the Authority. Singapore has also agreed to keep in view such continuity in
connection with the allocation of ministerial responsibility for port matters
and in the appointment of the Chairman of the Authority.
27.      The Minister has power to designate the port area and approaches.
The present port limits are shown on Map No. 2. The main duties of the
Authority are to provide and maintain adequate and efficient port services
and facilities, to regulate and control navigation, to provide pilotage
services and to promote the use, improvement and development of the ports.
28.      The Authority has power, subject to approval of the Minister, to
levy rates for terminal facilities and services provided by it, but port
dues on vessels and pilotage dues are fixed by the Ordinance and may only be
altered by the Minister, after consultation with the Authority. In practice,
however, the same procedures are followed in relation to alterations in port
dues and pilotage dues as are used in connection with rates for terminal
facilities, the Authority, not the Minister, originating any proposals for
such alterations. This is satisfactory.
29.      The Authority has power, subject to the consent of the Minister,
to raise loans from the Government or from any other source. All loans rank
equally and interest and other sums payable on them are charged on all the
revenues of the Authority.
30.      The State Government has agreed that the tax exemption of the
former Singapore Harbour Board under the Income Tax Ordinance will apply to
the Authority as the successor to the Board and has amended the Income Tax
Ordinance accordingly. The present auditors to the Authority are Messrs. Price,
Waterhouse and Company, and the Authority and the State of Singapore have
agreed that the accounts will continue to be audited by independent auditors.
31.      The policy of the Authority is generally to carry its own insurance
risks except in specific cases where it is considered desirable to obtain



- 8 -
cover from a reputable firm of insurers. It considers that its effective
fire-fighting and police security arrangements make it unnecessary to
insure its sheds, warehouses and their contents. The Authority bears its
own Workman's compensation risks. The insurance reserve is substantial and
stands at over M.$ 6 million. The Authority and, previously, the Board,
has an excellent claims history. The present insurance position is satis-
factory. The Authority has agreed to continue to make adequate provision
for insurance.
32.      In 1963 the Federation of Malaysia passed a Port Authorities
Act to provide for the establishment of port authorities and their functions,
which now embraces all the states in the new Federation. The Guarantor has
informed the Bank that it is not now the intention of the Government of
Malaysia to take measures to bring the Authority within the scope of the
Act and has agreed to consult the Bank before issuing any order subjecting
the Authority to the Act or before taking any action to broaden the functions
and duties of the Authority beyond those specified in the present Act.
B. Management
33.      The General Manager is the chief executive officer of the port.
He is assisted by a Director of Operations and a Director of Administration.
Departmental functions are divided between the Secretary, Financial Con-
troller, Operations Manager, Traffic Manager, Port Engineer, Staff Manager,
Dockyard Manager and Police Commandant. In general, departmental heads are
competent. Although the Authority has general powers to determine its own
staff establishment and to fill posts, the Minister has the right to direct
that specified posts shall be filled on the advice of the Public Service
Commission and salary scales are subject to his approval. The State of Sing-
apore has informed the Bank that it is, and will continue to be, its policy
to allow the Authority to engage its senior staff, including departmental
heads, on such terms and conditions as to attract and retain persons of requis-
ite skill and experience, and has agreed to consult with the Bank before the
appointment of a general manager by the Authority.
C. Staff and Labour
34.      There is no formal Malaysianization program but posts held by
expatriates are, upon their retirement or the completion of their con-
tracts, being filled by Malaysians. Some 90 expatriates remain, mostly on
relatively short term contracts, of whom 40 are employed in the Dockyard
and 30 are pilots or other marine officers and 20 hold other posts. Ex-
patriates are no longer promoted to higher posts.



-9-
35.       In general, there are satisfactory procedures for recruitment,
promotion, welfare and discipline of staff. Trade unionism is well organ-
ized in the port and labour is reasouably contented. Productivity of
dock labour is high. (For further details see Section IV. C., paragraphs
62 and 66.)
36.       During 1964 the Authority employed about 8,000 daily-rated
workers, 2,100 monthly-paid staff and 300 senior staff; in addition,
the police force totalled about 360 officers and men. Staff training
programs are being developed.
D. Physical Facilities of the Singapore Port (Map No. 2)
37.       The port facilities for general traffic are situated virtually
within the city of Singapore and are broadly divided into two parts:
the deep-water berths of the Port of Singapore Authority and the "Roads"
where sea-going vessels anchor and cargoes are discharged or loaded into
lighters and which do not form part of the Authority's sphere of operations.
The Authority's Wharves
38.       The Authority's port area consists in the main of a long series
of marginal deep-water berths stretching from the East Lagoon westwards
as far as the Authority's main dockyard, tne most recent addition being
the four berths completed in 1962 as the first part of the East Lagoon
expansion scheme. There is also one large 'basin, the Empire Dock, used
both for ocean-going ships and coastal vessels, and two small docks for
harbour craft. In all, there are over 22- mile3 of quays, providing berths
for 24 ocean-going ships and 5 coastal vessels. The depth alongside the
deep-water berths varies from 24-34 feet at mean low water.
39.       The wharf area is accessible by road and rail. There is an ex-
tensive range of transit sheds, open storage areas and warehouses. Quay
cranes are not employed but forklift trucks and other mobile mechanical-
handling equipment are provided by the Authority, and there are tanks and
pipelines for handling latex and other bulk liquid cargoes. Water and
bunkering facilities are provided at all berths. A new passenger terminal
has been constructed at one of the main berths. One berth is reserved for
bulk cement/clinker imports to supply a privately-owned cement factory
built on the wharf. The Authority's port area is fenced and protected by
its own police force. The Authority also provides an efficient fire-fight-
ing service and first-aid and ambulance units.
The "Roads"
40.       The Roads are an extensive stretch of water to the East of the



- 10 -
Authority's East Lagoon facilities.  They are in two parts, the Outer and
Inner Roads, separated by a detached mole parallel to and about one-third
ofa mile off the shore. The outer Roads provide an excellent deep-water
anchorage for ocean-going ships awaiting berth at the Authority's wharves.
On occasion, either because of lack of berths or to save Dort charges, some
ships unload their cargoes into lighters for unloading at the wharves or to
await transhipment.
hi.        The Inner Roads, together with the Singapore river and the Telok
Ayer Basin, form a port complex outside the Authority's area of wharf oper-
ations. Generally speaking the Inner Roads handle most (about 80 per cent)
of the inward commodity traffic from neighbouring countries. This traffic
is carried by vessels of up to about 2,000 dead weight tons. These imports
are offloaded into lighters that carry them to privately owned godowns
(warehouses) along the river.  Most of these cargoes are re-exnorted after
processing and are shipped from the Authority's wharves. A small volume
of exports to neighbouring countries is also shipped from the Roads by
coastal vessels.
42.        The Singapore river is a sluggish tidal stream almost in the
center of the city that empties into the sea at the eastern end of the Roads.
The river banks are generally in a poor state of maintenance and are lined
with publicly and privately-owned godowns. The river is navigable for about
21 miles by lighters at certain stages of the tide only, since there is
insufficient water at low tide and several low bridges prevent the passage
of lighters: at high tide. In spite of these restrictions, and of the small
average volume of consignments, a remarkably high volume of cargo is handled
in the river.
43.        The Telok Ayer Basin is a shallow-draft artificial basin opposite
the mole. It is used mainly for lighters and the two arms of the basin pro-
vide berths for coastal vessels and there are small godowns leased to private
firms as warehouses. About 10 per cent of the total traffic of the Roads is
handled over Telok Ayer. Some minor improvements to roads and storage faci-
lities are now in progress.  The State of Singapore has recently vested
Telok Ayer Basin in the Authority uDon terms and conditions yet to be deter-
mined and has agreed to consult the Bank to assure that such terms and con-
ditions are satisfactory to the Bank.
U4.        The Roads provide cheap facilities for much of the entrepot trade
and have enabled that trade to develop economically. At present, apart from
the small charges on cargo landed at Telok Ayer and light dues on vessels,
use of the Roads and river is free.
Civil and Mechanical Engineering Maintenance
45.        In general, the buildings, roadways, railways and storage areas
of the port have been, and continue to be, well maintained. The indige-
nous replacements for the expatriate staff now gradually taking over the
Authority's Tngineering Department will, because of their background
and training in the port, continue to provide a high standard of mainten-
ance.



46.       Repairs to, and maintenance of, mechanical equipment and cargo-
handling equipment in the port is of a high standard, but the workshop
facilities are scattered over at least six different locations where the
services provided are difficult to supervise and co-ordinate.  Item a in
the project will provide a centralized plantyard and workshops for the
Port Engineer's Department and the newr facility will be able to maintain,
and possibly improve upon, the existing high standards of operation.
The Dockyard Department
47.       The Authority owns and operates two dockyards not far from the
coimmercial port.  The equipment is reasonably up-to-date and the worlcshops
are capable of effecting repairs to vessels of the largest class calling
at the harbour. In addivion, there are six graving docks, the largest of
which is capable of accommodating vessels of about 45,000 gross tons, hav-
ing dimensions of 885 feet, 92 feet 6 inches and 33 feet. All drydocks
are equipped with travelling cranes of up to 30 tons capacity.
48.       Labour for cleaning, scraping and painting of vessels in drydock
is provided by the Authority and the tradesmnen and technicians on the staff
are capable of carrying out work of every nature which presents itself in
Singapore.
49.       Repair berths in the dockyards total 2,000 feet in length and are
served by portal cranes of up to 25 tons capacity and an 80-ton floating
crane is available for heavy lifts. Engine repairs of the largest size can
be executed and castings of up to 20 tons and forgings up to 10 tons can be
made. The dockyards are equipped with extensive welding equipment and com-
pressed air is available throughout. A comprehensive wiood-working shop and
a well-equipped drawing office complete the installation. During the year
ending June 30, 1963, a total of 383 vessels were docked for repairs and
painting in the dockyards.
Other Port Facilities and Developments in Singapore
50.       There are several privately-owned oil refineries with their own
marine terminals situated to the west of the port area. The oil trade has
developed rapidly since World War II and reached 14 million tons in 1963.
51.       An important step in the strengthening by diversification of Singa-
pore's economy is the current development by the state Government of a new
industrial estate and satellite town at Jurong in the southwest of the
Island, about six miles west of Singapore city.  A new port, now nearing
completion, will provide about 3,000 feet of deep-water berths for bulk and
general cargo. The first berth of the new port will be 6pen for traffic
in October 1965 and will be run by the Authority on a management fee basis.



- 12 -
52.       The new estate will generate its own additional port traffic
which will be in addition to and not in substitution for the traffic
through the existing port facilities. Indeed, the probability is that
the new estate will develop additional traffic over the Authority's
wharves since much of the additional trade will be in the hands of Singapore
merchants who will continue to use the Authority's facilities. It is ex-
pected that shipping companies will prefer to use the Authority's existing
developed facilities, but it is not possible to estimate the additional
traffic that may be generated and no allowance has been made for it in the
traffic forecasts for the Authority's wharves. However, it would appear
to be bad planning that port facilities for general cargo should be dev-
eloped so close to an existing efficient port, and likely to result in a
waste of investment funds and in delays and unnecessary costs to shipping
and inefficiency in cargo operations.
53.       The State Government intends that responsibility for the new
port at Jurong will ultimately be transferred to the Authority, on terms
to be negotiated. The Government has agreed that the terms and conditions of
such transfer would be subject to the agreement of the Bank. The State
Government has also agreed to consult with the Bank should any plans be
considered a) to provide or expand any port facilities in Singapore outside
the Authority's area of operations, and b) to hand over to the Authority
duties or functions outside of those specified in the Ordinance, as, for
example, in connection with the establishment of Free Trade Zones.



- 13 -
IV.  OPERATIONS
A. Past Traffic
54.        Cargo statistics for 1959 - 1964 are given in Appendix 1.
Imports and exports are shown separately for the Authority's wharves
and the Roads. From 1959 - 1963, the last year for which complete
figures are available, the total traffic of Singapore, excluding bulk
mineral oil, increased by 18 per cent. The traffic over the Author-
ity's wharves, however, increased by 26 per cent, whi'le that of the
Roads increased by only 6 per cent. The proportion of the total traffic
passing oirer the wharves showed a steady increase, rising from 60 per
cent in 1959 to 64 per cent in 1963. Liners operating to fairly rigid
time schedules prefer to come alongside a well-operated wharf because
of the faster, more efficient handling of cargo, but where a berth is
not available on arrival they may be compelled to anchor and lighter
their cargoes.
55.        The approximate division of traffic, other than bulk mineral
oil, between the various facilities in Singapors in 1963 was as fo].lows:-
Million Tons   %
Authority's Wharves
Alongside wharves               1.2
Lightered                        .3
Coastal vessels                 .4             4.9     64%
Roads
Telok Ayer Basin                 .4
Singaoore River                 1.3
1.7
Others
(Naval Base, Oil Com-
panies and minor
landing places)                1.0            2.7     36%
7.6    100%
56,      UD to 1964, no detailed breakdown by categories was maintained
but an analysis of ships' manifests for 1963 indicated the main commodities



- 14 -
as gi-ven in Appendix 2. Over the Authority's wharves main imports were
machinery and equipment, iron and steel, gypsum and clinker, and textiles;
main exports were rubber, timber and fruit and vegetab'es.
57.       The "confrontation" which commenced in September 1963 has had an
adverse effect on Singapore's trade. Traffic at the Roads has been more sev-
erely hit than over the Authority's wharves as the Roads traffic handled m,ost
of the smaller-size ship trade with Indonesia. The full effect of "confronta-
tion" was not felt until 1964 when general wharf traffic, including bulk, fel
about 12 per cent below the 1963 figures.
B. Future Traffic (Appendix 2)
58.        The Government of Singapore, with the assistance of an economist
from the Federal Government, has prepared estimates of the total cargo
traffic for Singapore as a whole, excluding the new Jurong port. All
important categories of goods have been studied. The bases used include the
past development of traffic, the political changes referred to earlier in
this report and the effect of the economic growth of the country. It has
been assumed that the Authority's share of the total traffic will contirue
to rise slowly but it is probable that it would increase at a higher rate
if an adequate number of berths were available.  It has also been assumed
that Indonesian confrontation will continue but this is a major uncertainty
in the forecast figures. Should confrontation cease and trade with indonesia
be restored, a higher rate of traffic growth would result and there may be
need for further expansion earlier than is now7 contemplated.
59.        The projected figures are therefore conservative but are accept-
able for the purposes of the financial forecasts and estimating economic
benefits. The forecasts are summarized below:-
(In Millions of tons)
All Port Facilities     The Authority's 
of Singapore           lWharves
Actual    Projected      Actual     Projected
1963    1969                1974 l93
Unloaded cargo             4.8      5.0    5.2  2.8(58)X 3.2(6Q)  3.5(67)
Loaded cargo               2.8      2.9    3.1 2.1(75)   2.3(79)  2.5(81)
Total                      7.6      7.9    8.3 4.9(64)   5.5(70)  6.0(72)
x/ Figures in brackets indicate percentage of Port of Singapore Authority
cargo out of total Singapore cargo.



6o.       The total general cargo traffic of Singapore, excluding Jurong
is estimated to increase from 7.6 million tons in 1963 to 8.3 million tons
in 1974, a growth rate of less than one per cent per annum.   Traffic over
the Authority's wharves is expected to increase from 4.9 million tons to
6.0 million tons, indicating a growth rate of about 2 per cent per annum,
and a rise in the Authority's share of total traffic to 72 per cent in
1974 as compared with 64 per cent in 1963.
C. Operating Efficiency and Additional Berthage Needed
61.       Since 1939 no additional berths had been conistructed until the
four new berths of Phase I of the East Lagoon scheme which were cornpleted
in April 1962. During this period traffic in bulk vegetable oils and latex
developed and the general cargo capacity of those berths on ilich the bulk
latex tanks wJere built was consequently reduced.  The general cargo tonnage
during the period rose by over two million tons, or 83 per cent. As a
result, the port was subjected to increasing c6nditions of congestion.
62.       In i962/63 the average cargoes handled at each deep-water berth
amounted to over 192,000 tons, over 1,000 tons per yard of berth. This is
a very good performnance, especially considering the high proportion of
miscellaneous general cargo, and wras only achieved by intensifying mechani-
cal handling and the introduction of uneconomic overtime wfforking.
63.       Berth occupancy averaged over 90 per cent, which, over the long
term, is uneconomic and hinders adequate maintenance. Even so, delays to
vessels a.aiting berth were serious. On average, there were only 12 dais
per month when no ships were waiting, 12 days had up to five ships waiting
and over five on other days, with a maximum of 25 ships waiting during one
day.  The average "waiting time" for all ships amounted to between 2½2 and
3½ hours over the past few years. The Authority's wharves accon-nodate
about 4,000 ship-calls each year, with an average turn-around time of
about 2½ days. An analysis of ship movements is given in Appendix 3 and
an analysis of ships awaiting berth in Appendix 4.
64.       A feature of the rubber traffic, which causes bunching of shipping
and aggravates cargo congestion towards the end of the month, is that
deliveries are accumulated at the wharf for month end shipment.
65.       The Authority is doing its best to ease the situation by institut-
ing various operational improvements. An example is the change-over, in
October 1964, from a single shift plus overtime to a two-shift system.
This has alleviated the situation and made for more economical working since
its introduction, but it cannot make up for the lack of berths. During
December 1964 a total of 61 ships waited for berths with as many as 9 ships
during one day.
66.       Productivity of labour on ship and on silore has been consistentlv
satisfactory - about 12 tons per gang hour having been achieved on general



- 16 -
cargo in recent years. A shore labour gang consists of a foreman and 9
labourers, a ship gang having a foreman and 12 labourers.
67.        Calculations of berthage requirements by 1969 and 1974 are given
below. They are based on maintaining the present high average of about
190,000 tons per berth per annum, excluding bulk cargoes, and on the traffic
forecasts described above.
1969         1974
General cargo '000 tons              5,500        6,000
Deduct traffic at Coastwise
berths - say                     300         300
5,200        5,700
Number of berths required
at 190,000 tons/berth                 27           30
Number of deep-water berths
1965 excluding cement berth           23           23
Additional berths required               4            7
68.       Assuming that operational efficiency can be maintained, the pre-
sent h-berth expansion proiect is appropriate to the additional berths
required for 1969 when a further review of ber-th requirements should be
made in the light of traffic performance up to that date.
69.       In view of the uncertainties in the traffic forecasts, the pre-
sent 4-berth project is the minimum that should be constructed at the pre-
sent time. However, it is also the maximum number of berths that can be
constructed at this location. For reasons of economy in costs of construc-
tion, further expansion must comprise a multiple berth project at a new icca-
tion.  It will be necessary for the traffic growth to be revie-.ed contin-
uously, particularly in the event of restoration of trade relations with
Indonesia, so that further extensions that may be necessary may be started
in good time.



- 17 -
V. THE PROJECT
70.        The Authority's total capital investment program for the
six years 1965-1970 is substantial and envisages investments amounting
in all to M.$ 162.2 million (US$ 54   million equivalent).   Of this sum
the Bank Droject accounts for M.$ 77 million (US$ 25.7 million equiva-
lent), or about 47% of the whole. The foreign exchange costs of the
project are estimated at M.$ 45 million (us$ 15 million equivalent),
the local currency costs being M.$ 32 million (US$ 10.7 million equi-
valent). The main item in the Project is the construction of four deep-
water berths. Other construction items are a new Port Engineerts plant-
yard and workshop and new Administrative Offices for the Authority.
There is provision for additional floating craft, and the replacement of
some existing floating craft and for cargo-handling equipment. Data-
processing equipment is also provided for. Details of the Project are
given in Appendix 5 and are summarized below:-
(M.$ million)
Local    Foreign
Total    Currency Exchenge
1.  East Lagoon Scheme - 4 new! berths          47.6     2L.6      23.1
2.  Port Engineer's Plantyard                    1.7      0.7       1.0
3.  Floating CraLt
(a) 1 - Large Fire Float                    1.1        -        1.1
1 - Small  "    "                       0.3        -        0.3
(b) Dredging Unit
1 - 14" Suction Dredge                  1.5        -        1.5
2 - 300-ton Steel HoDpers               0.2        -        0.2
1 - Attendant Tug                        O.5       -        0.5
(c) 1 - Waterboat                           0.6                 o 0.6
(d) 3 - Harbour Tugs                        3.8        -        308
4.  Data Processing Equipment                    1.5                 1.5
5. Mechanical Equipment
(a) Mobile Cranes 9 No.       1.0
(b) Forklifts 149    "        3.9
(c) For East Lagoon Scheme   13            6.2        -        6.2
6.  New Administrative Offices                   5.0      4.o       1.0
7.  Engineering Ser-vices Including Supervision  2.0      0.7       1.3
8.  Contingencies (7%)                           5.0      2.0       2.9
77.0     32.0      45.0
US$ Equivalent  (25.7)   (10.7)     (15.0)



- 18 -
71.       The Authority has as their consulting engineers Sir Bruce White,
Wolfe, Barry & Partners, who were the consultants for the first part of
the East Lagoon development and who will continue to be retained for the
design and supervision of the second part which is Item I of the project.
Naval architects will be retained to help with the design of the floating
craft in the project.
72.       The consulting engineers are expected to complete the drawings
and tender documents for the main item of the project shortly. The costs
of the project have been based on the known costs of labour and materials.
Inasumch as the main item of the project is a repetition of the first
East Lagoon scheme, the estimates for this item, which include a 10%
contingency, are realistic. A further 7% contingency has been added for
this and all items in the project and the resulting estimates are considered
adequate. The Authority will apply international competitive bidding to all
items of construction and procurement in the project.
73.       The floating craft and the other items for procurement in the
project should all be obtained within two years of the invitation to bid.
The East Lagoon scheme will be of the longest duration and is expected to
be completed in a little over 3f years - about the end of 1968.



- 19 -
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
74.       Tihe operational justification of the project has been fully
established in Chapters IV and V of this report.
75.       The economic benefits to port users to be derived from the
project and which can be quantified are:-
(a) savings in ships' time awaiting berth;
(b) savings in reduction in volume of traffic handled
by lighter;
(c) savings in cargo handling costs.
(a)  Savings in Ships' Time A7Taiting Berth
76.       In 1963, with a total volume of general cargo over the wharves
of 4.9 million tons, the average time per ship awaiting berth amounted
to 21 hours. Wlith 3,933 ship calls, the total time so lost was 410 ship
days. In 1969 the total general cargo is expected to reach 5.5 million
tons which would result in at least 460 ship days being lost. According
to studies made by the Authority, the average daily costs of a ship in
port in Singapore is at least M.$ 5,000. Based on these, the total
saving under this heading for 1969 may be estimated at approximately
M.$ 2.3 million.
(b) Savings by handling cargo directly over the wharf
rather than by lighter
77.       During 1963, about 350,000 tons of the Authority's wharf
traffic was handled by lighters because of the shortage of berthing space.
Without increased berthage this traffic could be expected to increase
proportionately to at least 400,000 tons by 1969.  The project, on the
other hand, will eliminate almost completely the need for lighterage of
these cargoes. According to the Authority's statistics, the mean
average of the cost of lightering a ton of cargo is about M.$ 3. Savings
may be estimated at a minimum of M.$ 1.2 million in 1969.
78.       A ship being worked by lighters at anchorage spends perhaps
twice as long in port as if she were working at an alongside berth. On
the basis of the 400,000 tons involved, 240 ships carrying 1,650 tons
would save 2½ days each. At M.$ 5,000 per ship day, this would produce
savings of M.$ 3.0 million. The total benefits under this heading
would therefore amount to M.$ 4.2 million.



- 20 -
(c) Savings in Cargo-Handling Cost
79.       Difficulties in berthing ships at appointed times because of
berthage congestion requires stevedore gangs to stand by waiting for the
ships to be berthed. This involves waste of labour time and extra wage
payments. Also ships are frequently berthed at berths other than those to
which they were originally assigned. For outgoing cargo this entails re-
moval of cargo from the assigned berths to actual berths. The proposed
expansion of wharves will eliminate both of these types of losses.  The
additional cargo-handling equipment to be financed under the project would
make the cargo handling in general more efficient and result in savings in
the cost of cargo handling.
80.       The expected annual savings on the basis of the 1969 level of
cargo volume may be as follows:-
Elimination of gang stand-by time         M.$ 400,000
Elimination of cargo removal                  300,000
Savings in cargo handling in general          400,000
Total      M.$ 1,100,000
81.       The total economic benefits that can be readily quantified for
1969 are therefore as follows:-
(M.$ Million)
(a)  Savings in ships' time-awaiting berth      2.3
(b)  Savings from reduction in lighterage       4.2
(c)  Savings in cargo-handling costs            1.1
7.6
82.       Allowing for traffic growth in the first five years only of the
operation of the expanded port and projected over the 30-year average
economic life of the facilities, the savings indicated above would produce
an annual rate of economic return of about 11 per cent on the total cost
of the project of M.$ 77 million.
83.       By themselves the above benefits justify the project.  Other
benefits will accrue which cannot easily be quantified. For example, there
will be a reduction in the waiting time of cargo with a resulting saving in
the capital represented. The project will ensure that freight surcharges
are not levied by 6hipping companies because of congestion. It will also
ensure provision of adequate services to ships in Singapore, thus maintain-
ing the competitive position of the port vis-a-vis other ports in South-East
Asia which is important to the continuation of the entrepot trade of Singa-
pore.



- 21 -
VWI. FhTAUICE
A. Past Finances and Earnings
84.       The financial accounts of the Singapore Haroour Board were recorded
on the "double account system" in the Balance Sheets, the fixred assets were
shown at the original cost of the original assets; no provisions for
depreciation were made and replacements of retired assets were niet from a
renewals reserve, or from revenue. This also applied to replacement and
restoration of assets lost and damaged during the Japanese occupation. The
Revenue accounts made no attempt to relate the costs of services to the
charges levied. The financial year ended June 30.
85.       Financial results for the six and three-quarters years to March
31, 1964 are given in Appendix 6 and balance sheet data in Appendix 7. The
relevant data are summarized in the table below:-
M.$ Million
Years ended June 30            9 Monthls to
1958    1959    1960-   1961    1962    1963   3. 31. 64
Operating income   55.2    52.2    56.5    64.3    67.6    67.2     56.2
Revenue surplus
before debt ser-
vice               6.1     h.8     8.0    11.3    13.2    10.4     11.3
Debt service        2.2     2.2     2.2     2.2     2.2     2.2      1.9
Times debt ser-
vice covered       2.8x    2.2x    3.6x    5.lx    6.ox    4.7x     5.9x
Surplus after
debt service       3.9     2.6     5.8     9.1    11.0     8.2      9.4
Capital expen-
diture             1.9     0.h     4.8     8.7     7.4     3.9      4.2
Net cash surplus
per year           2.0     2.2     1.0     0.4     3.6     h.3      5.2
Debt/equity ratio  23/77   21/79   20/80   18/82   16/84   141/86   13/87
86.       The revenue surpluses were arrived at after charging reneuals
expenditure. Debt service coverage was ample, partly because of low debt/'
equity ratios and favourable terms for debt interest and amortization.
87.       Taken as a whole, during the last 20 years, the Singapore Harbour
Board was a profitable undertaking. Revenue surpluses were earned that



- 22 -
enabled the Board to make good all losses of and damage to its assets and
facilities suffered during the occupation, to expand its facilities and to
accumulate substantial surplus funds, which at March 31, 1964, amounted to
iq.$ 42 million (US$ 14 million equivalent).
88.     The accounting procedures of the Board did not permit the relative
profitability of the terminal operations and of the dockyard to be ascer-
tained, but approximate figures show that over the five years to 1961/62 the
terminal operations incurred deficits in three years and small surpluses in
two years, after making a reasonable charge for depreciation, with a net
deficit over the whole period. On the other hand, the dockyard earned con-
siderable surpluses in each year, which covered the terminal deficits and
were the source of the Board's accumulated surplus.
B. Transition from Harbour Board to Port Authority
89.      The Port of Singapore Authority took over port operations from the
Harbour Board on April 1, 1964 and at the same time assumed responsibility
for harbour conservancy and pilotage which were formerly functions of
Government departments.
90.      The assats taken over oy the Authority have been re-valued as of
April 1, 1964, on a replacement basis, less depreciation.  This work wJas
carried out by professional consultants. The re-valuation resulted in an
increase in value, of net fixed assets over balance sheet figure, of ±4.$ 11.1
million, which has been credited to capital account.
91.      The Authority assumed the Harbour Board's debt obligations
(Appendix 8). The largest item is a debt due to the Singapore Government of
M.$ 28.65 million, being most of the proceeds of a Straits Settlements
Government issue of a 3 per cent loan of M.$ 30 million made in 1937 and
maturing in 1972. This replaced an early A per cent Government loan issue.
Interest is paid on the full amount of M.$ 28.65 million with contributions
to a Sinking Fund amounting to 1½< per cent of the principal per annum. In
1939 the Government made a loan to the Board of I-I.$ 7 million at 3 5/8%
interest repayable over 60 years, to finance the 'West W-fharf Extension. Debt
service unpaid during the Japanese occupation has been added to the debt.
The only non-Government debt is an amount of M.$ 1.75 million lent in 1956
by the Colonial Development and ItWelfare Fund for the Queens Dock (Dockyard),
free of interest and maturing in 1971.
*92.    At March 31, 1964, the total debt outstanding, after allowing for
accrual of compound interest on the Sinking Fund, amounted to M.$ 22.05
million. All debt service is on favourable terms and amoumts to only
M.$ 2.2 million a year; raost of the present debt will be amortized by 1972.
The debt position is sound, with a debt/equity ratio at March 31, 1964 of
13/87.
93.     The Authority's powers to levy dues and rates are referred to in
paragraph 28. The prinrcipal port charges against vessels are port dues,pilot-
age,towage,wyharfage (dockage) stevedoring and fresh wTater and against cargo,
wharf handling,cargo moving,storage and -arehouse rents and delivery charges.



.- 23 -
Cargo charges based on tonnage are on the greater of weight or measurement.
Special charges are levied on bulk fuel oil over the wharf; vegetable oil
and latex. Other miscellaneous charges included hire of gear, mechanical
equipment and floating crane. Notwithstanding substantial wage increases in
1955 and later years, no increases in tariff rates were introduced until
October 1964, when an interim revised tariff came into force. Cargo-handling
rates were adjusted to yield an actual increase of 30 per cent while towage
rates were increased by 20 per cent. The intention of the increases was to
make the port operations, as distinct from the dockyard, profitable but not
at such a scale as would drive traffic away from the Authority's wharves to
the Roads. Port charges at Singapore still compare favourably with those at
the other main Malaysian ports of Penang and Port Swettenham.
94.       The Authority had already adopted the principle that its tariff
charges should be reasonably related to the costs of providing the services.
It is aware that the present tariff rates do not conform to this principle
and intends to introduce a revised tariff during 1965 based on actual costs.
To this end new accounting and costing procedures are in the course of being
introduced by Associated Industrial Consultants Ltd., and a Tariff Advisory
Committee will be set up by the Authority. The Authority has provided for an
overall increase of 4 per cent in its revenue forecasts reviewed in this re-
port.
95.       Until recently, the dockyard enjoyed a virtual monopoly in that
area of South-East Asia. The dockyard tariff had fixed charges for docking,
undocking and dock hire, but repair work for outside customers, which made
up most of the dockyard business, was charged on a "cost-plus" basis. The
dockyard now faces competition from a new dockyard being established at the
Jurong estate with Japanese technical and financial assistance. The Authority
has taken steps for a study to be made of dockyard operations with the object
of improving efficiency and reducing costs to enable the dockyard to meet
competition.
96.       There is no statutory requirement as to the adequacy of the dues
and rates to cover costs. However, the Authority has agreed,with the con-
currence of the State Government, that it will operate its facilities and
maintaim rates so as to provide sufficient revenue (a) to cover operating
expenses, including taxes, if any, and to provide adequate maintenance and
depreciation, and interest payments on borrowing; (b) to meet periodic repay-
ments on long-term indebtedness and sinking fund contributions to the extent
that such repayments and contributions exceed the provisions for depreciation;
and (c) to create reasonable reserves. The Authority has also agreed that
revenues will yield an over-all rate of return of not less than 6 per cent
overall on the average value of the Authority's total net fixed assets in
operation in any financial year.
97.       The Authority retains all surpluses and has discretionary powers
as to creation of general and specific reserves. Surplus finds may be
invested in trustee securities, subject to a right of the Minister to give
specific directions.



- 24 -
98.      The Singapore Government is of the opinion that the time is not
opportune for the promotion of a Limited Company, wholly owned by the
Authority, to take over the dockyard and will not take any steps in the
near future to require the Authority to implement the provisions of the
Ordinance in this respect. The financial projections for the Authority
therefore include the resources of the dockyard.
99.      In October 1964, simultaneously with the introduction of the
interim revised tariff and the new two-shift system of port working
previously referred to, new wage and bonus rates for dock labour came
into force that compensated for the loss of overtime as well as providing
increased incentives. New pay rates are being negotiated for other staff
which are expected to be effective during 1965. Financial forecasts are
based on the new dock labour rates and provision has been made for the
other probable increases.
C. Future Finances and Earnings
100.     Financial forecasts have been prepared or modified by Bank staff
from data prepared by the Authority on the basis of the present traffic
projections. Should Indonesian confrontation cease, the financial results
will be improved by the extent of increases in operating surpluses at-
tributable to the additional traffic that would result. The Authority's
financial year ends December 31.
101.     Detailed forecasts to 1970 are given in Appendices 9, (Income and
Expenditure Accounts); 10, (Cash Flow); 11, (Pro Forma Balance Sheets); and
12, (Debt Service). The bases and assumptions used in the financial forecast
are given in Appendix 13. Operational results are summarized below:
in M.$ Million
Forecast
1965     1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
Operating Revenues
Terminal and Harbour          57.0     61.5    65.4    68.4    70.0    71.4
Dockyard                      29.5     30.0    30.5    31.1    31.8    32.5
85.5     91.5    95.9    99.5   101.    103.9
Operating Surplus
Terminal and Harbour           5.5      7.9     9.8    11.5    12.4    13.2
Dockyard                       4.6      4.6     4.7     4.7     4.8     4.8
10.1     12.5    1 .5    16.2    17.2    18.0
Interest Income                   1.8      1.3     1.2     1.2     1.2     1.5
Revenue Surplus                  11.9     13.8    15.7    17.4     18.4    19.5
Times interest covered            9.4x     6.7x    4.6x    4.9x    5.lx    5.5x
Times debt service covered        7.5x     6.5x    5.lx    5.6x    5.7x    4.8x
Return of operating surplus to
net fixed assets               6.2%     6.5%    6.5%    6.6%    6.6%    6.8%
Operating Ratios
Terminal and Harbour            90%      87%     85%     83%     82%     82%
Dockyard                        85%      85%     85%     85%     86%     85%
Debt/Equity Ratio               10/90     16/84   19/81   20/80   19/81  16/84



- 25 -
102.      Interest and debt service coverage are ample while the return on
investment, 6.8% in 197'0, after bringing the new facilities into full use,
is adequate. This return is based on average net fixed assets. The debt/
equity ratios are good, rising from 10/90 in 1965 to 20/80 in 1968, due
to disbursements under the Bank loan, and thereafter falling to 16/84 in
1970. The ratio will then continue to improve with amortization of the
loan.
103.      Projected expenditure on the total capital expenditure program
for the six years, 1965-1970, and sources of funds over this period are
given in Appendix 10 and are summarized below:-
Funds Available                               M.$ Million
Balance capital funds avilable
January 1, 1965 (estimated)                      40.0
Annual revenue surpluses and
depreciation 1965-1970                          140.5
Total own resources                               180.5
IBRD Loan                                          45.0
Total                                             225.5
Funds Required
Investment - IBRD Project                          77.0
Other                                 85.2
162.2
Debt Service                                       25.0
Increase in working capital                         2.3
Payment of arrears of wage increase                 4.5
194.0
Surplus December 31, 1970                          31.5
104.      Throughout the period, the available resources should be adequate
to finance the whole program, leaving M.$ 31.5 million, out of the original
available funds of M.$ 40.0 million, to be carried forward. In addition,
there will be ample working capital, amounting to about M.$ 27 million in
1965 and rising to nearly M.$ 29 million in 1970. The Authority expects to
finance over 70 per cent of its investment program, during this period, from
its own resources.



- 26 -
105.      Nevertheless, the development program is substantial and
financial difficulties could arise if there were to be a serious drop
in revenue. To ensure adequate funds to finance the Bank project, the
Authority has agreed that it shall not, prior to completion of the
project, enter into any financial commitments in respect of capital
expenditures in excess of the financial resources available to it and
the State of Singapore, as well as the Guarantor, has agreed to ensure
the provision of adequate funds to meet expenditures required for carrying
out the project, should such assistance be necessary.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENXDATIONS
106.      The project is technically sound and the cost estimates are
realistic. It is operationally required to handle the projected traffic
of the port and it is commercially justified. It is important to Singapore's
t-ade that the port maintain its high standard of operational efficiency
and the project will help to achieve this.
107.      The Authority is the successor to the long-established Singapore
Harbour Board which developed the port to its present eminent position in
world trade. Management has been efficient and is likely to continue so.
108.      A strong financial position has been built up over many years and,
notwithstanding the present substantial development and capital expenditure
program, of which the project forms a part, the future financial position
seems assured.
109.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan to the Port of Singapore
Authority of US$ 15.0 million equivalent for a term of 25 years, including
a five year period of grace. The Government of Malaysia would be the Guarantor.
BAN6K
july 6, 1965



SINGAPORE POI.T PROJECT
Cargo Statistics (Excluding Bulk Mineral Oil)
Calendar Year Ended December 31                                        Tbous%d Freight Loag Tons
Al. Port Eacilities of SingafPore       P.S.A.          Wharves                               n"Roads"
Loaded       Unloaded     ToLoadd                                                  Loaded   % Unloaded   %    Total  %
1959                   2,527         3,942        6,469     1,908      76    1,986   50    3,894  60        619    24  1,956   50    2,575   40
1960                   2-L'83'       4,084        6,567     1,906      77    2,197    54   4,103  62        577    23  1,887   46    2,464   38
1961                   2,7Y30        4,8602       7,332     2,069      76    2,499    54   4,568  62        661    24  2,103   46    2,764   38
1962                   2,701         4,768        7,469     2,042      76    2,680    56   4,722  63        659    24   2,088  44    2,747   37
1963                   2,836         4,784        7,620     2,076      75    2,814    58   4,890 64         760    25   1,970  42    2,730   36
% Increase 1959-1963      12%          21%         18%         9%              42%            26%            23%          1%           6%
1964                    N.A.          N.A.          N.A.    1,779            2,626         4,405             N.A.       N.A.          N.A.
% Dec:feae 1963-1964                                         1A.3%              6.7%          9.9%
Note:   "Roads" include all ports of Singapore and adjacent islands except P.S.A. Wharves.
Source: Statistics Dept Government of Singapore: 1959-1963
Port of Singapore Authority: 1964



SINGAPORE PORT PROJECT
Projections of Cargo Traffic (Excluding Bulk Mineral Oil)
(Thousands of Freight Tons)
All Port Facilities of Singapore               .Tbe Authority's Wharves
1963        1964     1969      974         1963         1964    -1969     1974
(Actual)    (Actual)    (Projeted)         (Actual)     (Actual)    (Projected)
General Cargo
Incod ng
Rubber                             337                  450      48C          33                     35       40
Rice                               486                  600      700          31                    100      150
Wheat Flour                        108                    0        0          97                      0        0
Fruit and Vegetablea               163                  180      180          76                    100      130
Iron and Steel                     254                  200      180         229                    200      180
aab'insry and Equipment            393                  430      450         262                    360      430
Textil Manufaoture                 205                  180      120         101                    110      110
AU Otbers                        2.655                2,770    2.900i,8                           2,O10       8
TOTAL - INMWII3             4v601                 4,810    5.0Lo       2,63.         2,364    2,936    39220
Rubber                             666                  700      770         644                    680      750
Fruit and Vegetables               1U                   115      1140         97                    105      125
Timber and Logs                    253                  295      12Q         2d'                    265      300
Rice                               154                   70       50          28                     35       40
Textile Manufacture                 75                   50       60          16                     30       40
All Others                       1,511                1,600    1,700       1,024 1,180                    1,230
TOTAL - OUTGOING             2,770                2,830    3,0140      2,010         1,713    2,295    2,1j5
TOTAL - GENERAL CARGO        7,371                7,610    8,5O        t,641        41077     5,210    5,705
Bulk Cargo
Gypsum, clinker, latex,
vegetable oil                     249                  330    7             249           328      330      330
TOTAL - ALL CARGO               620      N.A.      7970     8380        4                               LA-
Souret Singapore Governnment



APPENDIX 3
SINGAPORE PORT PRDJECT
Ship Movement in P.S.A. Wharves
Year ended June 30
Ships Called
Average Turn.
Net Registered      Around Time      Average Waitilg Time
Number   Tonnage (1,000 T)  Per Ship          for Berth For All Ships.
Deas  Hours       Hours       Minutes
1954      3,637     11,217.5           2   17         n.a.
1955      3,694     10,833.9           2    9-1/2     n.a.
1956      3,592     10,777.0           2   18         n.a.
1957      3,418     10,247.0           2   18-1/2     n.a.
1958      3,575     11,776.4           2   13         n.a.
1959      3,722     12,795.7           2   15-1/2     n.a.
1>60      3,997     133 201.7          2   11         n.a.
1961      4,082     33,410.0           2   12-1/2       3            26
1962      4,018     14,167.0           2   16-3/4       3            49
1963      3,933     14,354.9           2    9-3/4       2            29
1964      3,719     13,665.8           2    9         n.a.
a   Annual Rate for the first 7 months of the year.
n.a. means data not available.
Source: Port of Singapore Authority



SINGAPORX PORT PROJECT
Daily Number of Ocean-Gaing Shi.ps Waiting for Bert1zi
P.&.A. ~iarvea
-196      2-93 -         -----                                                 - --     --- 9 63w     --    --3-     ---------------
Dat  j~A e_tOc      Nov Dee     Jan Feb MarAr           u   _u_X       ___-WtOtNvDc          J-Fb           p    a    a    ul   u    Sp     c     o     e
-I            -    - -                          JUf_J2_  _t          Ot No     De     Ja  ?d                             _& ~JY ~ ~   t    o    e
lat      0     4    8   9    6     -.-O  13 13    4    5    4   4V    5     0    7    0   6      3    0    7   2   1     5     5    9     0    4     3     2
2nd      5    7    610o      2    11 10 11        3    9   0     5    o     o   6    1    4      3    0   3    0    6    3    6     5    1     0     2     4
3rd      1    9    9   la    1     10   9    9    1    7   0     3    0     0    0   0    0      7    0   6    0    0    0    6     5    0     2     1     0
4th      o     4   4 11      0      6    4 10     3    7   1     1    1     0    0   0    2      0    1    5   0    1    2     1    1     2    1     0     0
5th      0    6     o   7    1      4    6   3    0    2    3    0    1     0    0   o    0      0    0   0    0    0    0     0    1     4    4     0     0
6th      0     3   1    8    0      2    5   0    1    1    1    0    1     0    0    0   0.     0    0    0   0    0    2     0    0     0    3.    1     o
7th      0    0    0    6    0      0    3   0    3    0    0    0    0     0    0   0    0      2    0   0    0    3    0     0    0     2    0     0     0
8th      0     0   0    1    0      1    0   0    0    0    0    4    0     0    0    0   0      2    3    0   0    0    0     0    0     3    0     0     0
9th      0     2    0   9    0      3    0   1    0    0    0     2   1     0    0    0   0      2    2    0    0   1    0     0    0     2     0    0     0
1oth      1     1    0   0    0      5    1   0    0    0    0   10    0     0    0    0   0      2    0    0   0    0    0     0    0     0    1     0     0
11th      0     2    0   0    0      3    0   0    0    0    0    3    2     2    0    0   0      0    0    2   0    0    0     0    0     1    0     0     0
12th      4     5    0    2   0      3    1   0    0    0    1    0    4     1    1    0   1      0    0    0   1    0    1     0    O;    0     1    0     0
13th      0     4    3    2   2      0    1    0   0    0    0    0    2     1    1    0   0      0    0    0    4   0    0     0    o:    0     0    0     0
114th     0     4    0   0    1      0    4   6    0    0    0    0    2     0    0    3   5      2    0    0   0    0    0     1    OW    0     0    0     0
15th      3     5    5   5    2      2    1   1    0    2    0    5    0     0    1    5   0      0    9    6   0    0    0     6    oj    0     0    0     0
16th      0     4i   4   3    0      0    0    0   0    0    0    4~   0     1    3 10     1      0    2    a    0   0    0     5    o)    0     0    0     1
17th      1     9    2   1    1      0    0    0   0    2    2    6    o     3    0 11     1      0    1    5    0   0    1     2    0~1         a    0     0
18th      0     t    2 12     2      0    1    2   1    0    0    7    5    10    0 15     0      1    3    4   0    5    1     2    0.    0     0    0     1
19th      2     5    4   6    1      0    1   1    0    o    0    6    7     6    0 18     1      0    6    5   0    0    0     1          1     2    2     0
2th       6    9    4    5    3      0   0    0    3    5    0    8    9     1    0 10     1      0    2    5   0    0    0     0    21    0    0     1     0
21at      7    8    5    1    9      7   1    2    0    5   0     0    2     2    1   6    1      1   1     7   0    1    0     0    al.   0    0     0     0
22nad     4    4    5    0   14      7   6    2    0    2    0    9    4    10    0   7    1      2    0    3   0    0    3     2    1~    0    0     0     0
23rd     6     7    4U   018         2   3    4    0    1   0     5    0    11   2    6    2      1    1    0   0    0    5     9    6     0    3     1     1
24th      9    0    5    0   39      3   0    1    9    0    0    9    1    14    0    2   0      0    3    0   1    0    5     U   i1Y    1     4    3     5
25th      8    1    3    0   22      1   3    0    7    1   1     9    4     9    4   0    7      0    1    0   0    0    0     5   13     0     0    2     7
26th      5    0    3    3   25      0   6    0    6    (0  9     9    .4   10    0    0   0      0    4    0   0    0    0    11    8     1     5    4     6
27th      5    0    8    2 21        0 10     0 11      3    9    6 10       4    0   1    0      0    9    1    2   0    0    18   10     0     6    1     9
26th      6    0    9    1 21       9  11     2    6  1211         211a      8    6    1   0      1    8    1   7    1    0    15    4     0     7    0     7
29th      5    1    5    6 17       1.1  -    7    6    5    9   11 10      17    3    1   0      0 16      5    U   9    1    16    z     6     9    0     7
30th      7    9    7    8131       12   -    6    2    6    2   16    6     6    4    2    3     0    -    8    4Un      2    14    1     2     6     2    9
31st      4    - 12      -    8      -   -    0    -    6    -   1 2   6     -    3    -   6      2         3    -    2   -    11    1     -     7    -     2 
MTTAL     89 122    218 1~2D27       11210081i66 8153 152 9811642 99142                            -32472    84 25 4131 14092               27    65   23    61
Soureet Port of Sing~apre Autbority



SINGAPORE PORT PROJECT
APPMIDX 5
Details of the Project
1.     East Lagoon Scheme. Construction of 4 deep-water berths (Map No.3)
This extension is the second part of the East Lagoon Scheme, the
first part of which was completed in 1962. Pt that time the two seaward
berths of Phase I were protected temporarily from the southeast monsoon by
a row of sunken hulks. This is not a very effective breakwater and there
are occasions during the monsoon when those berths are unusable. The pre-
sent project therefore, as well as providing four additional sheltered
berths, also incorporates a permanent breakwater of steel-piled diaphram
construction to shelter the existing berths and permit year round opera-
tion.. This is the final stage of physical expansion and development in this
area of the port.
The new berths will be of reinforced concrete and dredged
initially to 34 feet at Mean Low Water, but designed for future deepening to
43 feet. Each berth will have a steel-framed transit shed 450' x 120' and
be provided with fresh water and bunkering services.   Two storage sheds pro-
viding a total of 165,000 square feet and two small sheds for dirty cargoes
will also be provided. Adequate road and rail access will be provided. The
necessary cargo-handling equipment and a harbour tug for the'new berths are
provided in other items of the project. It is hoped that some of the
material to be dredged from the extended basin will be suitable for reclama-
tion purposes at a site to the north of the scheme, and that the sunken
hulks can be sold for scrap.
2.     Port Engineer's Plantyard and itorkshops (Map No.2)
At present, the Authority's muaintenance facilities are scattered
over various small shops throughout the port area. This is uneconomical
and inefficient and reduces effective supervision and control. These draw-
backs would *forsen when the new berths of the present expansion scheme and
the additional equipment to be provided under the project become available
and with further possible extensions and increased mechanization in the
future.A new centralized plantyard and associated workshops will therefore
be constructed at a site to the east of the dockyard. In addition to
stores and offices, there will be shops for carpenters, painters, machinists,
electricians and iron workers and stores for plant, cement and inflamable
goods - a total covered area of about 100,000 square feet in all. New
machines and equipment will be provided for the workshops and stores as well
as the necessary roads, drains, water and electricity services.   The new
facilities will provide effective maintenance for all the Authority's civil
and mechanical facilities for the foreseeable future, other than for float-
ing craft requiring dockyard resources.
3.     Floating Craft
(a)  Fire Floats
The Authority is responsible for fire fighting in the port area
and aboard vessels within the port limits. Apart from the normal fire risks
of port operations in tropical conditions, there is a large number of oil
tankers plying in the vicinity of Singapore and the Authority has decided



- 2 -                   APPENDIX 5   (Cont'd)
to augment its fire fighting fleet in order to fully discharge its respon-
sibilities.
A large fire float is to be added to the two existing large fire
fighting vessels in the Authority's fleet and will be of sufficient height
and power to direct high-pressure water or foam over the sides of vessels
even when they are in a lightened state. The deslgn of the new vessel has
not yet been completed,but it will incorporate every modern fire fighting
device for marine purposes and a catamaran hull form is being considered.
The cost of the new large fire float is estimated at M.$ 1.10 million -
all in foreign exchange.
The small fire float,also in the planning stage, will be employed
as a high-speed launch that can quickly get to the scene of a fire and take
prompt emergency measures for its control. It will supersede a small fire
fighting vessel - built in 1949 with an aluminum hull, which has deteriorated
more rapidly than was anticipated - that has reached the end of its economic
life and is due for replacement. The estimated cost of the small fire float
is M.$ 0.3 million - all in foreign exchange.
(b) Dredging Unit
In December 1964 the Authority was made responsible for the
dredging (other than of rivers and creeks) that had previously been under-
taken by the Public Wforks Department of Singapore. It was also given
responsibility for maintaining the approach channels as well as the dock
basins and alongside berths of the port. At the same time some of the Pub-
lic W4orks Department's dredging equipment was transferred to the Authority
but the cost of operation of this equipment and the extent of the Authority's
new dredging responsibility were not known. A study is presently under way
and the findings are likely to be known by June 1965. The study will deter-
mine the overall dredging commitment of the Authority (including the possi-
bility of maintenance dredging at Jurong) and determine the arrears of main-
tenance dredging and the expected annual dredging quantities that will have
to be handled by the Authority in the future.
The Authority has 4 dredgers - 3 grab dredgers for use alongside
berths and the bucket-ladder dredger "Tambakul".   It is known that the
dredger "Tambakul" has reached the end of its economic life and is due for
replacement and the Authority' proposes, subject to confirmation by the
above-mentioned study, to purchase a dredging unit composed of a suction
dredger, 2 hopper barges and an attendant tug. The suction dredger would
have a suction pipe of 14" diameter and be positioned by an attendant tug
of 220 b.h.p. After the dredger is positioned, the spoil would be trans-
ported in the two 300-ton dumb steel hopper barges to selected duiping areas
by the attendant tug. The costs - all in foreign exchange - are estimated
as:-
1 - Dredger          M.1 1.5 million
2 - Hopper Barges        0.2
1 - Attendant Tug        0.5      "



- 3 -                     APPENDIX 5 (Contid)
(c) tiaterboat
The Authority has 5 waterboats for supplying fresh water to
vessels in the port and at the Roads. One of these vessels - built in 1915 -
is due to be replaced and this new vessel, idhich is 120 feet long and will
carry 300 tons of water,is to be purchased as a replacement.
(d) Harbour Tugs
The Authority intends to purchase 3 112W harbour tugs each
85'x 26#x 12' with 500 b.h.p. engines. One of the new tugs is to replace
one of the existing 7 harbour tugs - built in 1921 - which has passed its
economic life. Another is to provide towing service in the new East Lagoon
area - part of this project - and the third is required to fulfill the
Authority's management commitment to the Jurong industrial estate and will
be used in the new harbour at Jurong now nearing completion.
4.     Data Processing Equipment
An extensive program is being implemented for re-organization
of management finance and costing procedures and will be expanded to include
statistics.  A feasibility study has been undertaken to determine the type
of data processing equipment required. The total cost of the system is
estimated at M.$ 1.5 million - this being sufficient to cover the cost of
providing and installing of whatever type of equipment that is decided upon.
5.    M4echanical Equipment
(a) Mobile Cranes
The Authority has a fleet of 17 mobile cranes of 2 to 3 tons
capacity all of which were supplied prior to 1947.   Most of them are near
the end of their economic life and inadequate for present-day traffic. It
is intended to replace these cranes gradually and 9 new mobile cranes of
3 tons capacity are to be purchased as an initial step.
(b) Forklifts
The Authority has made an exhaustive study of their fleet of fork-
lift trucks, particularly with reference to the type of power employed. It
has concluded that the existing fleet of 153 battery-operated and 43 diesel/
petrol forklift trucks should be replaced by straight diesel-propelled
vehicles. The existing fleet is near the end of its economic life and the
1)9 forklift trucks of the project will be its replacement.
(c) For East Lagoon Scheme
To equip the new 4-berth East Lagoon scheme, six 6-ton mobile
cranes and 33 forklift trucks are to be provided for mechanical cargo han-
dling.



- 4 -                      APPENDIX 5 (Cont'd)
6.   Mew Administrative Offices
At present the Authority has no centralized head office. Different
departments are scattered at different locations in the port area with the
consequent inconvenience of communication and transport. The Authority plans
to build a new administrative block which will house all of the head office
administration departments under one roof.  The actual size and location of
the building has not yet been determined because the local Towm Planning
Authority has not finalized its ideas on the development of the area next
to the port where a convenient site for the Authority's activities would be
located. However, the Authority is hopeful that in the very near future
planning permission will be granted for it to proceed with its* new build-
ing and the estimated cost of M.$ 5.0 million (of which M.$ 1.0 million
equivalent in foreign exchange) will be sufficient for this purpose.
7.   Engineering Services including Supervision
The Authority presently retains Sir Bruce White, Wolfe, Barry &
Partners as consultants for civil engineering matters and intends to retain
them for the supervision of the East Lagoon pcheme.
The Authority is considering the retention of a firm experienced
in harbour craft design and construction to help with the improvement of
its   own designs of the vessels that are to be procured in the project. The
sum - M.$ 2.0 million - under this heading will provide for the fees of its
consulting engineers, both for the design and supervision of the East Lagoon
scheme and for the services that may be employed in the field of naval
architecture.
d~. Contingencies
The estimate for the East Lagaon scheme eontaine a contingency
item of 10 per cent, which is appropriate to this type of work. The costs of
the other items in the project are based on actual estimates and do not
include any contingencies. A contingency of about 7 per cent has been added
to all items which, in view of the 10 per cent already included in the East
Lagoon scheme, is considered sufficient for the overall project.



SINGAPCRE PORT PROJECT
SINGAPORE HARBOUR BOARD
Condensed Incam and hzpenditure Aecownta and O h Flow Stateente
Fiscal Tears *ed Jun 30
34 000
9 intk. to
1957/58     1958/59     1959/60     1960/61     1961/62     1962/63       M rch 31
_ _                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~196k
Operating Incme                                               55,15k     52,167      56,087      6k,262      67,562      67,241         56,189
Interest Incom                                                  T7        1,000         997         959         961.   1_138             1,017
Tbtal mnoome                                          55 888     53.167      57.4ft      65.221      68.523      68.379         57.20
Operating gzpenditure                                         48,703     317,257     48,205      53,183      5k,838      57,039         hJ,901
Renewals Fund Sxpenditure                                      1,097      1,082         903         711         730         9e2          1,029
Insurance Fund Expendlture                                        -          -           03           2-                    -              -
Total Uxpenditure                                     k19.800    48,339      49,S11      53,8.96    5.317        S8.021         45.930
Revenue Surplus Bercre Debt Service                            6,088      k,828     72973        11,325      13.206      1038           11.276
Debt Service:
Interest                                              1,289      1,278       1,265       1,253       1,241       1,227          1,091
A ortlzation and Sinking Fund Contribution              915        927         9392        ff 0        9"          977            832
2,20      _ 2,205    2_20_          220         ,20        2,20           1923
Time Debt Service Covered                                       2.8        2.2          3.6         5.1         6.0         3.7            5.9
Surplus arter Debt Service                                     3,883      2,623        5,768       9,120      11,001       8,153          9,353
Capital  xpeanditure                                           1,903        387        3,818       8,722       7,379       3,853          k,233
Net Cash Surpluw for Year                                      1,980      2,236          950         398       3,622       3,300          5,120
Source Part of Singapore Authority, nodified by flak Staff.



SINGAPORE PORT PROJECT
SINGAPORE HARBOUR BOARD
SMMARIJ    UAZIAE SM      - AS 0 JU   30
4 lm11±on
ASSETS                                                                  1958       1959        1960         i6          1962       1963           196 31
Fixed Assets                                                         96.23      96.61       101.43      110.12      U7.50      121.31        125.40
Leso lenevale Reserve                                               8.70       8.87         9.71       11.24       12.78      12.14          11.37
87.53      87.7T        91.72       98.88      104.72      109.17        1111.03
Port of SiMgapore Authority - Reserve exp.niture                              -          -           -                -            .01          .18
Invesents, leee reserve, plus c-h OD deposit                         31.-9      31.21        28.60       33-56       37-90      43-03          42.41
Current Aslts                                                        19.66      22.78        29.82       21.37       21.24      21.95          29.09
Lose Curret Liabillties                                             6.13                   10.20 6.2..9.28          9.89       1.42 1192
13.53       16.06       i.62        15.s9       14.35       13* 3       _ 19.11
132.ff      =;,         139.*       117.53      1                         175.79
CAPITAL
Debt
Govermat of the Stats of Siaweors
3% laI  1962/72, lese  sls of 81inn  Iud                       16.13       15.31       11.17        13.61       12.72      11.80         11.00
Arrssz                                                    5.36       5.06         1.76       It.113       1.11        3.77          3.51
West Wharf Rate iX  Cinzolidated 3 5/ % $n                       6.22       6.15        6.08         6.01        5.93       5.85           5.79
Arsears                                                    .97        .96         .95          .93         .92         .91           .90
28.68       27.48       26.26       21.96        23.68      22.33         21.20
ColoeA.l Dovelcmat an Welfai 1 
*s Is Dock Lam                                                   1.52       1.40        1.28         1.17        1.05         .93           .85
Total Debt                                                 30.20      28.881       27.54       26.15       21.73       23.26         22.05
Capital Reserve                                                     75.21      76.60       82.*5        92.22      100.68     105.65         110.74
limus B_serves
Incurace                                                        5.54       5.70         5.45        5.59        5.97        6.111         6.26
Otber                                                          20.11      22.*0        22.68       22.51       23.70       29.48         25.87
Inc    an  hpediture Accout                                     1.16       1.13         1.82        1.03        1.89        1.24         10.87
To-t- *88Ft>                                              102.35     106.13       112.40      121.38       132.24     112.51        153.714
132.55      135-01      139.        147-53       169 17T
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                     23/77      21/79        20/80       18/82       16/84       14/86         13/87
Source: Port of Singapore Authority,
modified by Bank Staff.



SINGAPORE PORT PROJECT
PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY
Statement of Present Debt
M 8 '000
Debt Service 1965
Cigirml     Interest   Naturity             Otstiding        Interest    Amortization    Total
Amount                                      March 31,
196L
Straits aettlement uovernm.ent (Singapore)
3% Loan 1962/72 N1. 30 million of which
re-lent to Singapore hasDbor Ebard. 1937  3/                   28,650        3%        1972                28,650
Interest (i 3% on- full iaount                                                                 Lesa lue
Sinking Fund conLrIblution H.S429,750 p.a.                                                     of Sinking
Fund        17.6L6
lt,0%S            060             430        1 ,29
War per1oa arrears or, Sinkig Fund
contributions aiiiiinterest                             8,032       3%          2                                    100             359         159
Singapore Goveriment
West Wharf Extenslion Consolidated
3 5/8% Loan   1939                                              7,000       3 5/8%     1999                 5,787            207               87         294
War period arrears of interest                                  1,062       3 5/8%     1999                   899             32               14          J6
Colonial Develomant and Welfare PFud
Queen is Dock Loan 1956                                         1,750       Free       1971                   646              _              117         117
22,045          1,189            1,007       2,206
,t Il/ The Straits Settlement Goverrnent issue replaced
an earlier 3t Loan issue.
3/Sikidg Y7d Covtributics
Soures Port of Singapore Authority



SINGAPORE PCRT PROJECT
PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY
FORECAST INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS
Years endedi December 31
Actual                                           Forecast                           M$ '000
Nine months to
December 31.91d L                       66       19         1968       1962       120
1. Terminal and Harbor Operations
Operating Income                                                s5635            56,972       61.531     65,383     68.368     69.968      71,400
Operating and Administration Expenses                           31,461          47,826        49,186     50,270     50,907     51,356      51,500
Depreciation Ekpense                                             2.631            3.600        L400      _5.3        6.000       6.200      6.700
34,092          51.426       53,586      5I=        56.907     !7.56      58.200
Operating Surplus                                                1543             5.L6         7.945      9.813     11.461     1           13.200
2. Dockvard
Operating Income                                                21.739          29.500        30.000     30.550     31.150     31.800      32.500
Operating and Administration expenses                           17,419          23,450        23,700     24,000     24,350     24,850      25,400
Depreciation Expense                                             i,061           1.500         1.700      1.900      2.100      2.200       2.300
18.480          24.95         25,400     25,90      26.450     27.050      27.700
Operating Surplus                                                3.25.9          4.550         4.600          0      4.700     _,750        4.800
Operating Shrplus:
Terminal and Harbor                                     1,543           5,546         7,945      9,813     11,461     12,412      13,200
Dockyard                                                3r259          4.55           4.600      4.650      4.700      L.7S0       4.800
4,802          10,096        12,545     14,463     16,161     17,162      18,000
Interest Income                                                  1.592            1 800           00      1 200      1 200       1 200      1' 500
Revenue  Surplus                                                  ,13196                           13 ,    L35  1   17361       19;5       1900
Interest Expense                                                   907           1,262         2,070      3,434      3,525       3,612      3,576
Times Interest Covered                                             7.0              9.4          6.7        4.6        4.9         5.1        5.5
Net Revenue after Interest                                       5,487           10,634       11,775     12,229      13,836     14,750     15,924
Revenue Surplus plus Ibpreciation                               10,086           16,996       19,945     22,863      25,461     26,762     28,500
Total Debt Service                                               1,651            2,269        3,091      4,469      4,577       4,681      5,939
Times Debt Service Covered                                         6.1              7.5          6.5        5.1         5.6        5.7        4.8
Return of Operating Surplus to   Net Fixed Assets                  3.4%             6.2%         6.5%       6.5%        6.6%       6.6%       6.8%
Operating Ratios:
Terminal and Harbor Operations                           96%             90%           87%        85%        83%         82%        82%
Dockyard                                                 85%             85%           85%        85%        85%         86%        85%
SOURCE: Port of Singapore Authority (Modified by Bank Staff)
Note I/ Draft Accounts



SINGAPOFE PORT PROJECT
PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY
Forecast of Cash Flow - Years ending December 31                                (Ms 000)
Funds Reauired                              19§         1966          1967         1968        1969          1970             Total
Investment:       IBRD ProJect           10,000      27,000        20,000       14,000      6,000         -                77,000
Other                  231,04      14.231        12789       .12.320     9.826          13.000         _85.190
33,024      41,231        32,789       26,320     15,826         13,000         162,190
Debt Service:
Interest:       IERD                       63         886         2,265        2,372      2,475          2,456           10,517
Other                   1,199       1,184         1,169        1,153      1,137          1,120            6,962
Amortization:   IBRD                     -           -             -            -           -             1,279           1,279
Other                   1,007       1,021         1,035        1,052      1,069          1,084           6,268
Increase in Working Capital                 600         450           500          400        200             150           2,300
Wage increase arrears                     4.500        -                                     -                - _4.500
L00393  L4.772  37758      31..297    20.707          19.089         194,016
Funds Available
Revenue Surplus                          11,896      13,845        15,663        17,361     18,362         19,500          96,627
Depreciation                               5,100      6,100         7,200         8,100      8,400          9,000          43,900
Loan IBRD                                  r°        20.000        15000          6.000      -                -            45.000
20.996      39945         37.863       31.461     26.762         28.500          185.527
Annual Surplus                               -            -               105          164      6,055          9,411 15,735     -
Deficit                                19,397       4,827         -              -          -               -   24,224    8,489
Balance of Capital Funds available                                                                                                                o
brought forward                       40,000      20,603        15,776        15,881      16,045        22,100          40,000 (Estimated) >
Surplus of Capital Funds available                                                                                                                1
carried forward                       20,603      15,776        15,881        16,045      22,100        31,511          31,571
Source: Bank Staff



SINGAPORE PORT PRQJECT
PORT OF SINGAPOfiE AUTHORITY
Pro Forma Balance Sheets
As of December 3l
ACTUAL 1/                                      FORBCAST              MS million
1964±           1965         1966        1967       1968       1969       1970
Assets
Fixed Assets including work iniprogress                                       152.0        185.0      226.2      259.0      285.3      301.1
Additions                                                                 33.0         41.2       32.8       26.3        1S.8       13.0
152.0           185.0        226.2      259.0       285.3      301.1      314.1
Less Depreciation                                          3.7             8.8         14.9       22.1       30.2       38.6      _47.6
148.3           176.2        211.3      236.9       255.1      262.5      266.5
Capital Funds                                                  40.0            20.6         15.8       15.9       16.0       22.1        31.5
Net Current Assets - Working Capital 26.S                                      27.1                    28.1       28.5       28.7        28.8
214.8           223.9        25_47       280.9      299.6      313.3      326.8
Capital
Debt
Singapore Government 3% loan                       28.6          28.6           28.6        28.6       28.6        28.6       28.6
Less value of Sinking Fund                         19.0    9.6   20.1      8.5  2l1.    7.4 22,3   6.3 23.4   5.2 2      4.1 iiL2    3.1
Others, including arrears                                 10.7            10.1          9.          .          8.3..      7.7       7a.1
20.3            18.6          16.9.      15.2       13.5       11.8       10.2
I.B.R.D.                                                                   4.0         24.0       39.0       L5.0       LS.0        U .7
20.3            22.6         40.9        54.2       58.5       56.8       53.9
Equity
Capital Reserves                                  190.7         193.1          195.5       197.9      200.1       202.5      204.7
Revenue Reserves and Surplus                                      8.2           18.3        28.8       41.0        S          68.2
__________                                                                                 ___        ___                   ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~38  6
194.5           201.3        213.8       226.7      241.1      256.5      272.9
ZL4&S           a2,2          254.7      280.9      299.6      IU2        326.8
Debt/EAuity Ratio                                                9/91           10/90        16/84      19/81       20/80      19/81      16/84
Sourcet Port of Singapore Authority
Note I/ Draft Accounts



SINGAPORE PORT PROJECT
PORT OF SINIGAPORE AUTHORITY
FORECAST OF DEBT SERVICE
Years Ended December 31
(M  '000)
1965            1966           1967            196           1969             1970 _
Inter-   Cap-   Inter-  Cap-   Inter-  Cap-   Inter- Cap-    Inter-    Cap-   Inter-  Cap-
est     ital    est    ital    eat    ital     eat   ital.  east      ital    est    ital
(a) S. S. Governxent
(Sinking Fund)          860      430    859     430     860     429    859    430    860       430    859     430
(b)    Arrears                 100      359     89     370     78      381     66    393     54       405     42     417
[c)  West Wharf                207       87    204      90    200       94    197     97    193       101    190     104
[d)    Arrears                  32       14     32      14     31       15     31     15     30        16     29      17
:e)  Colonial DeveloVaent               117            117            116            117              117J         _ _6
1,19     1,007 1,184    1,021  1,169   1,035   1,153  1,052  1,137     1,069  1,120   1,084
IBRD                     6              886           2.265          2 372    _    2.475            2.456    1.279
1,262    1,007 2,070    1.021  3,434   1,035   3,525  1,052  3,612     1,069  3,576   2,363
2,269           3,091          4,469           4,577         4,681           5,939



APPENDIX 13
SINGAPORE PORT PROJECT
Assumptions and Bases used in
Financial Forecasts
1.        That Indonesian "confrontation" will continue during the
period covered by the forecasts. No provision has been made for the
additional net revenues that would accrue from increases in traffic
arising from restoration of trade with Indonesia.
2.        That a new revised tariff to be introduced during 1965
will result in an average overall increase of 4 per cent in the
present scale of revenues. There is, however, a margin for higher
increases without making Singapore uncompetitive with other ports in
Malaysia.
3.        That the Authority will continue to enjoy exemption from
liability to income tax in the State of Singapore and will not be
subject to Malaysian income tax.
4.        That the dockyard will not be transferred to a Limited
Company during the period covered by the estimates.
5.        That, in face of competition, the dockyard will retain
the present level of outside business and that increases in total
work will result from additions to the Authority's own fleet of
vessels.
6.        That a Bank loan will be made to the Authority of US$ 15.0
million equivalent at 51 per cent per annum for a period of 25 years
including five years'grace.
7.        No provision has been made for the taking over of operations
at Telok Ayer and Jurong.
8.        Provision has been made for possible wage and salary in-
creases during 1965. However, this provision is probably overestimated.



MALAYSIA
. BUDJRMA   ~ q   WIWAN  OCtEAlN
S,ain  roads       -                                         ....... . 
Raii ,aysPILPIS
0   50  00  50  0                    4.
W. Bh.,.  ~~0  50  00  50  200SRR
\n etn,,,MKALA LMU VYA.                                                         .'- 
M~~o0  OKALA YUPRA
&             I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A        L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SARAWAK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 
A    O       R     E                                   4                                     RiSINAPORED
APRi4 195                                                 .
~j)1<                                     A    I M   M   A N 
APRIL SOAS                                                                                       IORD.144S01



MAP 2
/it)             ZL
~~~~~~~~~ A~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
I--
E  j_S6j?                  CO~~ jo
.......   . ...
17j'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
< < + ~ ~~~~  2  °  /
'~~~~ t
..........
A ' s   /  /  --                     Z



MAP 3
'PORT OF S'INGAPORE
EAST LAGOON SCHEME
500   0   500   0O   1500  o000
IEET
J-i~i
'11AT  9565                                                                                     ISFD-1511P



