1%        ~RESTRICTED
FIL      COPY"            RE RIC 
Report No. P-443
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY, MALAYSIA
July Z3, 1965



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PRESIDENTIS REFORT AND RECOMIU21DATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
PORT OF SINGAPORE AUTHORITY, M-ALAYSIA
1o        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $15 million to the
Port of Singapore Authority (PSA), under the guarantee of lialaysia.  The
project is designed to expand and improve operational and administrative
facilities at the port, and is part of a long-range program, the earlier
stages of which have been financed out of the Authorityts own resources.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The application for the proposed loan was made in March 1964. Field
appraisal required a number of visits by the Bank staff, the latest of -ahich
was in February 1965.
3.        Negotiations for the loan were held between June 18 and June 25.
The Guarantor was represented by Mr. G. Rama Iyer (Principal Assistant
Secretary in the Treasury) and H1r. IT. S. Ong (Solicitor General). The
Borrower (PSA) was represented by its Chairman, THr. Goh iKoh Pu-, and the
Director of Administration, Mir. K. C. Rodley. The State of Singapore was
represented by Mr. Abu Bal.ar bin Pawanchee, Permanent Secretary (Economic
Development) in the Mlinistry of Finance.
4.        The proposed loan would be the sixth to be made in Malaysia, the
par-ticulars of the five previous loans are given below:
Amount Net
Year   Borrower                          Purpose            of Cancellations
1958   Central Electricity Board         Electric Power     $ 28,600,000
1963   State of Singapore                Electric Power     $ 15,000,000
1963   Malaysian Industrial Development  Industrial
Finance, Ltd.                     Finance          $  8,000,000
1963   Central Electricity Board         Electric Power     $ 51,900,000
1965   Public Utilities Board            Water Supply       $  6,800,000
Total, net of cancellations                          $110,300,000
Of which has been repaid                           $  1,200,000
Total now outstanding                                $109,100,000
Amount sold                  $ 6,000,000
Of which has been repaid   $ 1,000,000        $  5,000,000
Net amount now held by Bank                          $104,100,000
Total amount undisbursed as of June 30, 1965         $ 60,000,000
Another loan of approximately $45 million equivalent is now being negotiated
with Mvialaysia for an Irrigation Project; this is likely to be presented to
the Executive Directors in the near future.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
5.        Given below are the main features of the proposed loan:
Borrower:                       Port of Singapore Authority.
Guarantor:                      Malaysia.
Amount:                         Equivalent in various currencies
of $ 15 million.
Term:                           25 years.
Amortization:                   In 41 semi-annual installments,
coumencing on September 15, 1970,
and ending on September 15, 1990.
Interest Rate:                 5-i% per annum.
Commitment Charge:             3/8 of 17 per annum.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
The Project
6.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
report "Appraisal of the Port of Singapore Expansion and Improvement Project"
(TO-483a dated July 6, 1965), (No. 1).
7.        PSA was created by the Port of Singapore Authority Ordinance, 1963,
passed by the Singapore Legislature. It replaced the Singapore Harbour
Board, all of whose functions and responsibilities it assumed. Certain
other functions previously exercised by State Government departments (such
as the Marine Department) were also assigned to PSA.   It consists of a
Chairman and fourteen members representing official, commercial and labor
interests. All members are appointed by the State Government. The chief
executive officer is the General Manager.   The operational staff has a long
tradition of efficiency, and both port administration and cargo handling have
continued to maintain a high standard.
8.        While the record of operational efficiency has continued to be
satisfactory, the steady increase in traffic has been the cause of recurring
strain: ships have to wait for berths on most days of an average month, and,
while the waiting time has so far not been excessive, it is clear that
expensive delays and higher handling costs would become the pattern if the
improvements planned under the present project were not implemented at an
early date.
9.        The main item in the project is the construction of four deep-water
berths. Other items are a new Port Engineer's plant-yard and workshop, new
administrative offices, replacement and augmentation of floating craft and
cargo handling equipment and data processing facilities.



10.       Purchase of all major items of imported equipment and the awarding
of all major construction contracts will be made on the basis of international
competitive bidding.  The Authority's ot.;n rules require competitive bidding
for every purchase of the value of M$5,000 (US$ 1,600) and above. The pro-
posed loan will cover the foreign exchange expenditure on the project, the
total estimated cost of which is $25.7 million. The local currency costs
will be met from PSA's own resources.   Both Singapore and IIalaysia are
undertaking to provide any additional sums that might be required to complete
the project.
11.       The financial position of PSA is expected to remain satisfactory.
It began its life on April 1, 1964, with an accumulated surplus equivalent
to $14 million.  The debt equity ratio at March 31, 1964 was 2.3/87.  In 1964
the return on average net fixed assets was about 3.14% and this is expected
to be 6.6% in 1969. PSA has undertaken to maintain a minimum rate of 6%.
Debt service coverage from 1964-1969 will vary between 4.8 times and 7.5
times.  PSA is a financially sound organization and should be capable of
servicing its indebtedness likely to be incurred for its development program.
12.       In addition to the project under consideration, PEA envisages
further capital investment of $28 million between now and 1970, about 70%
of which might be financed by PSA out of its olm funds.
The Economy
13.       An economic report on Malaysia (FE-41a) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on January 7, 1965. (R65-4). A memorandum summarizing
recent developments is attached (No. 2).
14.       Output during 1964 showed a further increase, and since 1960 a
growth rate of GNP of 5% a year has been achieved despite the declining
price of rubber - Malaysia's major export.   The prospects for continued
growth at this rate for the rest of the decade are good, although little
diversification has been achieved and heavy dependence on a few export pro-
ducts remains. Continued growth depends however on the maintenance of the
high investment rate which was reached during the last two years for the
first time. The progression from an investment rate of 14-15M of GNP in
the late 1950's to 20% at present has been a major achievement, brought
about mainly by increased public sector activity. It has, however, been
accompanied by a balance-of-payments deficit as well as serious strains on
the resources available to the public sector. These disequilibria are
expected to persist for some time, and it will be necessary for Malaysia
to draw heavily on her foreign reserves over the next few years in order to
supplement foreign borrowing and capital inflow from other sources. By the
early 1970's, however, the cumulative effect of investments now being made
should enable the adverse trends in the balance of payments to be reversed.
15.       The external debt of M4alaysia is very low, current service charges
accounting for less than 2% of foreign exchange earnings. Even on the basis
of the additional external borrowing that may be needed between now and 1970,
annual debt service charges should not exceed 7% of the foreign exchange
earnings. This ability to incur debt on conventional terms would however
be adversely affected if the price of rubber and tin fell substantially
below present expectations.



- 4 -
PART IV - LEGJAL INSTRUIENTS AND LEGAL AUTHORITY
16.       Drafts of the Loan Agreement between PSA and the Bank and the
Guarantee Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank are being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors, together with the draft "letters
of assurances" from Malaysia and the State of Singapore, and draft supple-
mentary letter from the Authority regarding "finances".
17.       In general, the draft Loan and C-uarantee Agreements are in the
usual form. The "letter of assurances" from Singapore has special signifi-
cance, as the Authority has been established under a statute passed by the
State Legislature and is administratively under the control of the State
Government. Hence certain specific assurances - including itams that would
be found in a conventional Guarantee Agreement - have been obtained from
Singapore. Singapore has undertaken to obtain the Bank's approval to the
terms and conditions upon which additional responsibilities would be vested
in PSA if the Authority was asked to take over the proposed Free Trade Zone
and the harbour facilities at the Industrial Estate of Jurong. Singapore
has also agreed to consult the Bank regarding the creation and expansion
of port facilities outside the Authorityts area of operation.   The Government
of Malaysia too has agreed to consult the Bank before it imposes any
functions and duties on PSA beyond those that the Authority is at present
responsible for. The "finances" letter from PSA incorporates, inter alia,
an undertaking that it will not transfer its dockyard facilities to a
wholly-owned private company except on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
18.       she Report of the Comnittee provided for in Article III
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement in respect of the proposed loan
is being distributed separately.
PART V - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEi9ENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the requirements
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 5 -
PART VI - RECOI'09In4DATION
20.       I recormmend that the 2xecutive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLVED:
THAT, the Bank shall grant a loan to The Port of Singapore
Authority, to be guaranteed by HIalaysia, in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million United
States dollars (U.S.$15,000,000), to mature on and prior
to September 15, 1990, to bear interest at the rate of
five and one-half per cent (52-%) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Singapore Port
Project) between Malaysia and the Bank, which have been
presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
by S. R. Cope
Washington, D.C.
July 23, 1965



