Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 7829
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PIANTATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1679-UNI)
JUNE 19, 1989
Africa Regional Office
I|   document has a resticted d_butloi and may be used by  cn   ly In dbs perisuna    of
eIr oaI  ti  It contents may not othewse be dI                      Ba* ants.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate             Shadow Rate
1980                    ml  -    $1.83                     $0.79
1981                    Ml  -    $1.63                     $0.75
1982                    NI   u    $1.48                    $0.71
1983                    11   -    $1.38                    $0.61
1984                    ml   -    $1.31                    $0.51
1985                    NI   -    $1.12                    $0.35
1986 Pre SFED           N1   -    $0.97                    $0.35
1986 Post SFEM          %I   -    $0.45                    $0.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) * 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)2 - 0.62 miles
1 km2 * 0.39 miles2
1 centimeter 9cm)   0.39 inches
I metric ton (NT) - 0.98 tons
m3(r) - solid cubic meter, roundwood
2(s) - cubic metes, sawnvood
ABBREVIATIONS
AENTI    - Agricultural and Rural Manageamnt Training Institute
APGB-   -  Agricultural Projects Governing Board (Ondo State)
BPCC     -  Budget Policy Coordinating Comittee (Ogun State)
FAO      -  Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FAO/WBCP -  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FOF      -  Federal Department of Forestry
FGN      -  Federal Government of Nigeria
FMAWR    -  Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
FM&C     -  Forest Manpower Development Center
FORMEU   -  Forest Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
FRIN     -  Forest Researcb. Institute of Nigeria
GDP      -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD     -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IITA     -  Internatioaal Institute for Tropical Agrlculture
IRn      -  Internal Rate of Return
MANR     -  (State) Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
aId/h    - Man days per ha
PMU      -  Project Managemaent Unit
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
SFEM     -  Second Foreign Exchange Market
UJDP     -  United Nations Development Programe



TN! ORLDSAN           101OICIAL USE ONLY
TME WOIIXo Mm
Wasdion. D.C. 20433
USA.
June 39, 1989
TO 73  EXECUT"IEDIRECTOS AmD TME PRSIDET
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Foretry Plantation Proiect (Loan 1679-UNI)
Attached, for information, Is a copy of a report entitled uProject
Completion Report on Nigeria - Forestry Plantation Project (Loan 1679-UNI)m
prepared by the Africa Regional Office.   No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this tbsm.
Attacbment
Tbh docum bus rutu_e d_ubuftos d my be nied by mxlbnu 0ab inat ps,fomum
of te ocfkW duL. Its cotets ma snot oewie be dicBed wthut Woldd  nk auboram



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NiGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT PROJECT
(Ln. 1679-UNI)
Table of Contents
Pate No.
Preface .... .      ........................**......                   i
Basic Data Sheet 14
Evaluation Sumnary                                                    iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Io  Introduction                                                I
II.  Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal ...       3
III.  Implementation ....                                        6
IV.   Operating Performance                                     4
V.  Financial Performance ......                               16
VI.   Institutional Performance                                 17
VII.   Economic Re-evaluation ....19
VIII.   Environmental Impact ...............                      19
IX.  Bank Performance ..... ... ...                            20
X.  Conclusions                                                21
Tables:
1.  Plantation Establishment
2.  Road Construction
3.   Buildings
4a & b.   Plantation Costs
5.  Fellowships
6a - e.   Project Funding Expenditure
7a & b.   Funding
8.  Foreign/Local Spending Funding
9.   Financial Internal Rate of Return
lOa & b.   Cash Flow
11.   Economic Rate of Return
12.   Harvesting Schedule
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Returns
CIeNTS FROM THE BORROWER
ATTACHMENT: Comments from the Forestry Management, Evaluation and
Co-Ordinating Uni' (FORMECU)
Map: IBRD 13785R1 - NIGERIA Forestry Plantation Project
Project Plantations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perlonmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosod without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
(Ln. 1679-UNI)
PREFACE
1.      TUis is the Project Completion Report  (PCR) for the Forestry Plan-
tation Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 1679-UNI in the amount of US$31.0
million was approved on October 29, 1979.   This project was also financed by
the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN), and the State Governments of Anam-
bra, Ogun and Ondo States of Nigeria. Completion was due by 31 December 1984
but was extended to June 30, 1986 to counteract lower than anticipated annual
planting achievements and a delayed  start.    It was fully disbursed and the
last disbursement was on Jan. 23, 1987.
2.       The PCR was prepared by  the Forestry Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
of the Federal Department of Forestry on behalf of the Federal and State go-
vernments during October and November 1986.   It is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Guarantee and Project Agreements, supervi-
sion reports, and correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower.
3.       This PCR was  read by  the Operf.tions Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on March 8, 1989. The
text was corrected on the basis of commeuts received from the Forestry Mana-
gement, Evaluation and Co-Ordinating Unit (FORMECU), which are reproduced as
an Attachment.



- it -
PROJECT CCKfLITIom REPORT
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
(Ln. 1679-UIR _
BASIC DATA SHEET
1. Rey Project Data
Actual as I
Appraisal                                    of Appraisal
Item                                Estimate                 Actual             E!timate
Total Project Cost         151.5 mill ($79.3 mill)*  N52.6 mill ($76.6 mill)          97 *
Loan Amount                       $31 mill                   $31 mill                100%
Disbursed                       $31 mill                   $31 mill                1002
Canciglled                        nil                         nil
Cofinzancing
- Nigeria Federal Govt.       N16.3 mill                 016.7 aill               102%
- Ogun State Govt.            N 6.9 mill                 N 6.S mill               952.
- Ondo State Govt.            N 6.9 mill                 N 5.9 Mill               86%
- Anambra State Govt.         N 1.3 mill                 N 1.1 mill               852
Physical Completion Date        31 Dec 1984                30 June 1986
Proportion Work Completed          100%                         722
Economic Rate of Return            13.42                      15.31
Financial Performance                -                        Fair
Institutional Performance          Good                       Good
2. Other Project Data
Original Plan           Revision           Actual
First mention in files                                                         05/28/75
Government's Application                                                       10/-/76
Negotiations                                                                   11/-/78
Board Approval                                                                 03/29/79
Loan Agreement Date                                                            10/29/79
Effectiveness Date                    01/28/80              06/30/80           06/30/80
Closing Date                          06/30/85              06/30/86           06/30/86
Borrower:                      Federal Government of Nigeria
Ezse;uting Agencies:           Federal Government of Nigeria
Anambra State Government
Ogun State Government
Ondo State Government
Fiscal Year of Borrower:       1 January - 31 December
Follow on Proiect              Nigeria Second Forestry Project
* In dollars, 102% in M. Due to radical exchange rate shifts, neither N nor $ is
a fully suitable numeralre. Cost estimates vary according to the conversion factors
used, but not significantly.



- Sll -
3.  Disbu.eisunts - [BRD
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Estimatd Cumulative (SW)           6.0    14.2    21.4    27.9    31.0    31.0    31.0
Actual Cuiil*tive (S3)             0.1      6.2    14.1    21.5    26.8    29.2    31.0
Z Actual of Esti.tO                12:      441     662      77%     862     94Z    100o
Loan Repayment at 31st Decembor 1986 $6.2 million.
FYi?  P~?  pv~g_py FYN         FY684 FM  FYo FM              MAL
Ptr elaal        O.9  28.0                                                    N.9
Appeateel             ,7.9  g.                                                 9.65
Negotiations             375                                                   79.
Supellsion                  2.3 19.2 28.2 13.6 29.0 24.1  9.g  8.8  4.S      135.9
Other                   .1  .2                                                 .8
~AI            68.9 181.4 31.2 19.2 28.2 16.6 20.9 24.0  9.5  S.*  4.9     329.6
4. Mission Data
MSD            NMouth  Number    Field    Specilizations  Perfova=eee Trend  Problem
/Tear  Persons        Is  Reresented (1)  RatLag (2)   (3)  Types (6)
RecoUUSisance   10/76      2        -        *,f                 -          -
dentification  3/77       3         12      o,f,f               -
Preparation     4/6/77    5        185       f    ,,as ,en       -          -        -
Appraisal       4/78       8       214       e,f,fe,fa,a,p
supervislon 1   6/7/79    2         42       agmAo             2           -      0
2   10/79     2         20      e.f               2            1      0
3   2/80      1         17      e                 2                   X
4   6180      2         12      e,f               2            1      -
5   9/80      3         45      e.f,fa            2            1      F,P
6   12/80     1         12      a                 2            1      VIP
7   2/81      2         34      *,fa              2            1      F,P,
8   6/81      3         60      e,fa,f            2            1      F
9   2/82      1         25      f                 2            1      F
10   6/82      2         26      f,e               2           2       F,m
11   10/82     3         57      f,fa,a            2            2      JIM
12  4/83       1         19      f                 3           2       F
13  1/84       2         36      f,fa              2            2      V
14  5/84       1         18      f                 2            2      F
15   11/84     1         1S      f                 2            2      V
16  9/86       1          7      f                 -           -       -
1.  f-forester, fe-forest economist, fl-forest industries specialist,
mo'maauage_nt/organization, p-pulp and paper. e-econoists, &agriculturist
ag-agronomist *on-engineer.
2.  lproblem free/minor problems. 2-problms are moderate. 3-sajor problems
3.  1-improving, 2-stationary, 3-deteriorating.
4. F-financial, M-managerial, P-political, 0-other.



- iv -
PROJECT 'OMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
(Li. 1679-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
It GENERAL
Introduction
1.01      The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Forestry
Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (FORMEU) with assistance of a
financial consultant with experience in forestry. The PCR was written in
November-December 1986.
1.02      The project was identified during 1975-76 by the Government and
FAO with participation of the Bank which sent a three man identification
mission to Nigeria in March 1977, An FAO/CP preparation mission visited
Nigeria in April 1977 and completed its report by November. The project
was appraised in April 1978. Board approval was obtained on March 27, 1979
and the project became effective January 28, 1980 but effecti. tss was
again postponed until June 30, 1980. The original closing date of June 30,
1985 was extended to June 30, 198f to facilitate implementation of the
program.
Project Design
1.03      The project was the Bank's first forestry project in Nigeria.
The Bank had previously financed forestry components in the Ayangba and
Lafia Agricultural Development Projects. The project's main obiective was
to establish 22,600 ha of fast growing Gmelina plantations. A second
objective was to establish 1,600 ha of trial plantations of Pinus caribaea
and Eucalyptus. The third objective was to strengthen the management
capability of the FDF.
1.04      The Gmelina plantations were to be established in the Omo Forest
Reserve (Ogun State) and in the Oluwa Forest Reserve (Ondo State) with
11,300 ha in each location. The plantations were meant to supply pulpwood
fos a pulp and papermill which was already under construction at Iwopin in
Ogun State. Gmelina saw timber was to be produced as a biproduct to
pulpwood. 11,000 ha of existing Gmelina plantations would be maintained
during the project. Food production would be increased by farming part of
the area cleared during the first year growing season. The program was
supported by infrastructure such as roads, housing and offices. The
pine/Eucalyptus trials were to be planted at Mbanasa in Anambra State. The
purpose was to determine the feasibility of growing pine for long fibre
pulpwood, and Eucalyptus for production of poles. FDF was to be



- v -
strengthened through training and technical assistance for the purpose of
improving the monitoring and planning capability. It was meant to give FDF
a sector planning facility capable of assessing the physical and economic
factors involved. In particular it was to study forest fees and assist in
formulating a rational structure.
Project Implementation
1.05      Gmelina Plantation Program.  The original objective in the SAR
was to establish 11,300 ha of Gmelina plantations at each of thu Omo and
Oluwa plantations in a five year period. This required an establishment
rate rising to 3,000 ha per annum in the third year at each of the sites.
It soon become clear that this annual target was too large for one
management unit to carry out if quality controls were to be upheld in the
different stages of work from land clearing through nursery production and
planting. Targets were therefore reduced in agreement with the Bank to
2,000 ha per annum. However this became somewhat academic as local funding
shortages soon became the limiting factor. During 1981-82 there were
severe management problems at the Ondo State plantation unit, and this led
to partly unsuccessful plantation establishment because of poor supervision
of contractors and lack of quality control systems. However these problems
were overcome and the performance improved greatly. In total 17,028 ha of
plantations (75 percent of target) were successfully established through a
7-year period. The program included a farming component with two different
elements (a) taungya farming (intercropping) on 1,400 ha annually and (b)
commercial growing by the project on 500 ha annually before the area was to
be planted the next year. The taungya farming did not materialize to the
extent envisaged because traditional farmers already had been allocated
land elsewhere by the state forestry divisions and also were more
interested in growing crops which required more than one year of gestation
(plantain, cassava) and therefore unsuitable for the taungya model. The
farming program thus was mainly carried out by the project units
themselves. State governments were very interested in the farming
components. Particularly after the appearance of the military government
in 1984. Methodology and performance improved greatly as more experience
was gained. However farming as a whole never become financially viable for
the project units and somewhat aeviated the attention away from the main
program. The housing program was carried out reasonably successful at the
Ogun State component where the work was carried out in stages in accordance
with available finance, always giving priority to plantation establishment.
At the Ondo State component the whole building program was launched in one
stage in late 1981. However many contractors did not perform
satisfactorily and the situation deteriorated when the economy became worse
in 1982. The Ondo State PMU improved on this situation later by cancelling
a number of contracts and finishing part of the program stage by stage;
however a number of buildings were left unfinished and costs were high.
Because of reduced local project funding, the housing progiAm was below SAR
targets in both Ogun and Ondo States.
1.06      Pilot Pine Plantation.  The target for the Mbanasa Plantation
(Anambra State) in the five year period was 1,600 ha which called for



- vi -
annual planting rising to 450 ha. this was found to be unachievable and
the target was reduced to 300 ha. The site was of extremely low fertility
and this resulted in difficulties of establishment if fertilizer Was not
applied and timing of activities not ideal. The best establishment of pine
was achieved during the two first years of estaolishment when planting was
carried out at a relatively good site and under supervision of an
internationally recruited silviculturist. Smaller trials were established
with Eucalyptus spp. These were measured and registered before they were
later damaged by fire. The Eucalyptus suffered from deficiency of Boron
and possibly other micro-nutrients and similar symptoms also began showing
in the pine. Although a total of 760 ha were planted only about half of
this area survived due to failures and severe fires. Because of the poor
performance and lack of adequate management, the Bank withdrew from funding
the compone-_ in 1984. An agreement was reached with the Anambra State and
FGN and the remaining loan proceeds were reallocated. It could be
concluded from the trialn, that the site was marginal for afforestation.
1.07      FDF Strengthening. The project was envisaged to strengthen the
FDF Forest Management Divisio., ,eed in Ibadan. This unit was already
being supported by an FAO project. In reality a separate project unit, the
Forestry Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (FORMEU), was established. This
created some initial friction within FDF but this settled down and
cooperation between the two units became good. FORMEU was strengthened
through technical assistance in monitoring and evaluation, silviculture,
data processing and staff training. The FORMEU training officer provided a
number of local training courses, study tours and fellowships and this
together with in-service training Improved the standard and performance of
forestry staff in both FDF and the states. Under FORMEU a forestry school
was built at the Oluwa Forest Reserve. *The buildings were completed during
the last stage of the project and are expected to be an important element
in the second forestry project. The FDF strengtc.ening was to improve
monitoring and evaluation of plantation developments and the capacity for
economic evaluation in general. This was meant to lead to an improved data
base in forestry and improvements of stumpage fee rates. Undoubtedly the
project contributed considerably to the strengthening of FD?. FORMEU has
become a key organization where most of the sector knowledge is
accumulated. It has a current dialogue with the Director of FDF and the
Bank, and in this respect has had a considerable positive impact on setting
of priorities. Initially FORNEU was not successful in monitoring and
evaluation but improved performance after changing its policy to monitor
only the Bank supported project units. Subsequent to this change, FORMEU
provided a most useful assistance to the plantation units by monitoring
performance and costs. This was mainly done by the expatriate monitoring
and evaluation officer, and it was somehow difficult to make the Nigerian
monitoring staff at FORMEU interested in personally undertaking this task.
FORMEU was not successful in establishing a solid data base on national
forest plantations and major natural forest resources. In 1982 the Bank
suggested that FORERU would finance a short term consultancy to obtain a
more precise estimate of resources within forest reserves. However ED? for
a variety of reason resisted this proposal. Increase of stumpage rates had
been an issue already from the point of project negotiation. This may have



- vii -
contributed to the rise in stumpage fee rates which were introduced in 1980
by Ondo State. However the project was not successful in improving
stumpage rates on a nationwide basis.
II. PROJECT IMPACT
Project Objectives
2.01      The project's main objective was to establish 22,600 ha of
Gmelina plantations, the two subsidiary objectives were (a) to establish a
1,600 ha trial plantation with pine; and (b) to strengthen FDF.
Impact on Plantation Development
2.02      The establishment of 17,000 ha of plantations under the project
in addition to the 16,000 ha of pre-project plantations has created the
largest concentrated plantation resource in Nigeria. The location i..
central to sawmills in Ogun and Ondo States and close to major markets in
Ibadan and Lagos. The primary production objective, that of supplying the
planned Iwopin Pulp and Papermill may not materialize because it is
uncertain if the mill will be completed. However, Gmelina grown in the
aiea produces good saw tlmber and peeler logs, and the wood is well
suitable for a variety of purposes including production of furniture.
There is an increasing demand for wood in the area; the preproject Gmelina
plantations are already being harvested for production of matches and the
project units are selling an increasing amount of fuelvood which is
collected from the old clearing sites. With the rapid dwindling of natural
forest resources and the high population density it appears to be beyond
doubt that this plantation resource will play a major supply role in the
future.
2.03      The Mbanasa plantation experienced considerable problems with
establishmevt due to timing of activities, heavy weed infestation and
fires, all resulting in high investment costs per ha. The conclusion can
be drawn that pine can be grown more successful in the northern part of the
county and in particular at the Jos and Mambilla Plateau. The plantation
will not have a significant impact on wood production in Nigeria.
2.04      The SAR calculated the economic rate of return on the Ono and
Oluwa plantations. It was assumed that the pulp and papermill would be
completed in the early 1980. The harvesting model was based primarily on
pulpwood with a thinning at seven years and harvest of pulpwood and sawlogs
at 15 years. The model included income from salvage logging of the
clearfelled area. The economic rate of return was estimated at 13.4
percent. Excluding salvage logging income, brings down the anticipated
rate of return to 11.6 percent.
2.05      The PCR calculated both financial and economic rate of return.
The financial return is critical in Nigeria, because of the tradition of



- viii -
low stumpage fees. If plantation units are to become viable self
sustaining entities, stumpage fees must be increased. Because of the
uncertainty conaerning the pulpmill, the internal rate of return was
calculated under three different scenarios of harvesting/utilization: (1)
all wood production being used for pulpwood as from 1990; (2) all wood
production being used for pulpwnod as from 1999; and (3) wood being used
for sawlogs and fuelwood i.e. thus assuming that the mill will not be
completed. The models are rather conservative; in option (2) it is not
considercd that part of the harvest possibly could be used as sawlogs. In
the sawlog model (3) a 25 year rotation has been envisaged with an
exwloitatory "thinning" at year 18. If there was a clear policy in favor
of thinning plantations syst%matically at an early stage, the results are
likely to be better. The models have not taken into account the benefits
to the local communities of the long access roads into prol ct
ht.dquarters. These roads had a positive impact on transportation of cocoa
and other produce.
2.06      Based on estimated financial stumpage prices of N26 per as for
pulpwood and N32 per m9 for sawlogs the financial internal rates of return
were calculated as follows:
Scenario
1            2            3
Omo Plantation (Ogun)                   12.1%        8.9%         6.3%
Oluwa Plantation (Ondo)                 10.0%         7.4%        5.1%
Mbanasa (Anambra)                        1.6%         1.6%        1.62
Total Project (including FORMEU)         9.6%        7.1%         4.9%
Note:  The different scenarios refer to Ogun and Ondo units only.
The relatively low figures, in particular for option 3, which is the most
likely scenario, illustrates the need for adequate stumpage prices. After
introduction of the SFEM the financial prices above are low in dollar
terms. Merely to service the IBRD loan at the new SFEK exchange rates and
achieve 10 percent return on funds provided by Federal and State
Gover Dents requires stumpage rates for pulpwood and sawloge of 152 ($13)
and N170 ($42).
2.07      The economic rate of return was calculated in the PCR on the
entire project, taking into account aleo FORMEU costs. This resulted in
the following economic internal rate of return:
Scenario 1 (pulpwood)       13.7 percent
"   2 (pulpwood)       9.7 percent
"   3 Sawlogs         10.6 percent



- ix -
The figures can be described as conservative considering the assumptions on
stumpage rates and the fact that all project costs have been included in
calculation.
Institutional Impact
2.08      State Project Units.  The state project management units in Ogun
and Ondo State functioned well. The internationally recruited staff were
gradually and successfully replaced by Nigerian personnel. The project
units gained considerably in experience through the project period and will
make a good foundation for an improved forestry administration in the area.
2.09      Impact on FDF.  FORMEU has become a corner stone of FDF and will
be the key coordinator in the implementation of the Bank's second forestry
project and the planned AFDB project.
Environmental Impact
2.10      The project has replaced 17,000 ha of natural forest with Gmelina
plantations out of the total forest reserve area of 227,200 ha in Omo and
Oluwa. The SAR described the cleared forest degraded and considered its
replacement by plantations to be an ecological benefit. Although most of
the forest vhich was cleared had been logged it was not degraded, and it
could have regenerated given adequate protection. Natural forest
management could therefore, at least from a technical point, have been an
alternative, but the economic returns would have been lower than from the
fast growing plantations. Logging in the the remaining natural forest of
reserves has been intensified over the years and practically no forest
management systems are practiced by the state governments. It is therefore
uncertain if natural forest management under the given scenario is a
realistic long term possibility from a socio economic point of view. In
the old Gmelina plantations an understory of natural forest vegetation
establishes itself and the picture is somewhat similar to a natural forest.
It requires a longer term retrospective view, than it is possible to have
today, to a3sess if the plantation establishment will be an ecological
benefit or loss.
III. ISSUES
Main Planting Program
3.01      The project as a whole was well designed with appropriate
technology and unit costs. Gmelina has proved itself to be an excellent
species for the project area, considering its growth rate and fire
tolerance, and the aim of accelerating plantation establishment was
achieved. The annual planting targets were set too high (SAR) but this
must be seen on the background of expected pulpmill developments. Ideally
it would have been better from an overall landuse point of view if it had
been possible to establish plantations outside the forest reserves, thus



- x -
avoiding clearing the natural forest, but this may not have been possible
to arrange. The feasibility of mechanical landclearing was proved.
However, there is no doubt that erosion was considerably higher on
mechanically cleared land than on land which was cleared manually during
the first year until the Gmelina closed canopy. From an environmental
point of view the mechanical method is more risky but feasible with
appropriate technique and proper timing of acti-vities. From the economic
point of view the manual and mechanical cleating were about equal. Manual
clearing would now be superior following the SFEM. Manual weeding proved
to e % more appropriate than the mechaniu^' weeding proposed in the SAR.
Sai age logging was in the SAR includet  .J the economic benefits.  This is
qt- -onable as natural forest management was an alternative to the planned
pVInaa..&,ion developmenrt  and at any rate the timber trees would have been
har-isted even without the project. Actual total project costs were about
the same as in the SAR but achievements in planting were 75 percent of
target. Cost overruns were caused by the building program being more
expensive than envisaged (partly due to change of design from prefabricated
to concrete housing). Also the fact that the program covered seven
planting seasons instead of five contribuited to the cost overruns
(inflation). In addition manual inputs were higher than forecast.
Trial Plantation Program
3.02      The plantation trial was not as well designed as the main
program. The area to be planted (1,600 ha) was large for a trial and
before commencing, it would have been useful to carry out a study of pine
growth in Nigeria as considerable experimental plots existed already in
different places. The plantation was far from any of the pulp and
papermills which were under construction. The site was extremely leached
and unfertile and this had already been demonstrated by a previous pulpwood
scheme in the area where Gmelina plantations had failed and housing and
offices had been left abandoned. The marginal site (even for pine) and the
unsatisfactory project management and implementation resulted in poor
results, and the Bank withdrew from funding of further planting as from
1984.
FDF Strengthening
3.03      The program was well designed, studies and technical assistance
were well planned. Although the major objective of FDF strengthening was
achieved, the project did not have the impact on national forest policy and
stumpage fees as envisaged. Stumpage fees were raised for ingeneous timber
species in a number of states in 1980/81. This was probably a result of
FDF recommendations resulting from the forest fee study financed under the
project. Gmelina pulpwood prices in Ogun and Ondo States were an issue for
discussion between the two states and FDP on one side and the Ministry of
Industries on the other. The stumpage price requested by FDF was N26. No
agreement was reached on this price and the discussion remained somewhat
academic as no pulpwood was harvested in Ogun and Ondo States because of
the delay in mill implementation. However, stumpage prices paid for
Gmelina pulpwood at the Itu and Jebba Mills were set at N6 and N10 m3



- xi -
respectively, i.e., below the financial cost of replacement. The stumpage
fee question, both for indegenous tree species and for plantatior. species,
therefore remains a major Issue which need to be resolved to finance
management and replacement of the publicly administered forest estate.
Future
3.04      The project's institutional strengthening has laid a good
foundation for the second forestry project. The Second Forestry Project
vill mainly concentrate on rural forestry programs in the north of the
country but has also an industrial plantation component which includes
support to plantation maintenance in the Omo and Oluwa plantations. It is
important as soon as possible to carry out a study of the most economical
way of utilizing the Gmelina plantations. The study should in particular
deal with market prospects of Gmelina pulpwood so that a thinning program
can be implemented for the purpose of producing sawlogs. The Second
Fcrestry Project contains provision for financing of such a study.
3.05      The SFEW will have a severe impact on debt servicing.  This makes
it highly necessary for the states to charge appropriate stumpage fees and
identify profitable market outlets.
IV. LESSONS LEARNED
4.01      The major lessons learned from the project are:
-    irregular funding of forestry activities had been a major
constraint to plantation development in the past. It was
envisaged that the project would overcome this problem. However,
covenants with respect to Government paying budget contributions
regularly in advance of each quarter did not work out
successfully and appears to be incompatible with the Nigerian
budgetting system and existing bureaucratic procedures.
-    it was demonstrated that introduction of major policy changes and
increase of forest fee rates are difficult to implement in the
context of a forestry project and may require more leverage.
-    establishment of pine and Eucalyptus generally is most successful
if seedlings are planted in a weed free ground. Full mechanical
ground preparation and weeding is therefore often recommended.
However this contributes under a high rainfall regime (rainfall
at Mbanasa above 1,500 mm) to a rapid leaching of the soil which
can make successful establishment difficult. If species used are
slow in canopy closure (as P. caribaea) this will easily lead to
high weeding/establishment costs or failure.



- xii -
the project demonstrated the advantage of using fire tolerant
species (Gmelina) but also the need for adequate fire protection
measures.
trial plantations should preferably be carried out at the site of
an ongoing plantation program. In this way the experience of
existing forestry staff can be utilized and infrastructure costs
will be less. Trials should be kept at a small scale to avoid
the environmental damages and financial losses associated with
possible failure.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Lu. 1679-UNI)
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.01      The Federal Republic of Nigeria has a land area of 924,000 km2
and a population estimated at 92 million in 1984, the largest in Africa
Situated between 4° and 14' latitude the topography varies from tropical
forest in the south to semi desert in the north. It is politically
organized into 19 States with a Federal Government (FGN) based in Lagos in
the south. Most States however raise little revenue themselves and are
heavily dependent on the Federal Government for finance.
1.02      The economy grew quickly during the 1960's and 1970's largely
under the influence of increased oil revenues and by 1975 oil revenue
accounted for over 80 percent of Federal Government revenue. GDP per head
also grew rapidly in the periods reaching -.n high of over $450 in 1980
before falling in the early 1980's under the pressure of stagnant oil
revenues and rising population. Rural areas did not benefit to the same
extent as urban areas from the growth In the economy.
1.03      With the stagnation of oil revenues, since the early 1980's, the
Naira depreciated against international currencies. Import restrictions
were introduced to control the deteriorating situation.  In September 1986
the Second Foreign Exchange Market (SFE14) was inaugurated to simplify the
procurement of foreign exchange by the private sector.
Forestry Subsector
1.04      The forestry sector importance as an export earner dwindled in
the 1960's from 6 percent to 1 percent of export earnings. The oil funded
expansion of the construction industry absorbed all the sector could
produce and by 1976 an export ban on logs, timber and most other
manufactured wood products was imposed.
1.05      The exploitation of forest resources has traditionally been
carried on by the private sector. There are six plywood and veneer mills
with an estimated input of 270,000 m9(r) per annum. Two particle board
mills are in operation while two further mills are planned. There are
approximately 500 sawmills concentrated mainly in the West and Mid-Western
parts of the country. Most are small and 23 larger mills produce a
substantial part of the 2 to 2.5 million m9(s) timber produced. The FGN
has invested in the pulp and paper industry and there are now two pulp and
paper mills, Jebba and Itu, operating with a third, Iwopin, under
construction. The Jebba mill produces 12,000 mt per annum of industrial
pape:, the Itu mills is designed to produce 100,000 mt of newsprint per
annum and the Iwopin Mill 65,000 MT of fine paper and 54,000 MT of pulp per
annum.



- 2 -
1.06      The natural forest resource in the country has been under
pressure for a number of years because of over utilization and its
conversion to farmlands.  There are 95,000 km2 of forest reserve, 75,000
km2 of which is in the savanna zone producing little more than fuelvood and
poles. Plantation establishment had taken place but at a slow pace and
there are less than 100,000 ha of effective plantations, insufficient to
prevent the anticipated shortage of industrial wood.
Institutional Framework
1.07      The management of the forest reserves and control of exploitation
outside the reserves is undertaken by the Departmant of Forestry of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) of each state. Two
federal institutions are also concerned with the forestry sector. The
first is the Federal Department of Forestry (FDF) of the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Resources (FMAWR) and is charged with:
-    formulating national forest policy;
-    promoting forestry projects that are of national interest and
chanelling federal funds to such projects;
-    coordinating and monitoring state forestry activities.
The second is the Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria (FRIN) attached to
the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and responsible for forestry
research and formal forestry education.
1.08      The forestry sector is reviewed twice yearly by the National
Forestry Development Committee consisting of the heads of Federal and State
forestry agencies. Its effectiveness is limited by the lack of a
comprehensive national forestry development plan and statistical
information on state activities. The Third National Development Plan
included in its forest policy objectives:
-    increasing wood supplies by establishing plantations of fast
growing species;
-    promoting forest industries through tariff policies and by
exploring ways in which lesser known species can be utilized;
-    ensuring an adequate supply of pulpwood;
-    promoting fire prevention, watershed management and soil
conservation through forest planting and proper management.
International Forestry Assistance
1.09      The World Bank had previously been involved in forestry in
Nigeria only in the assistance of two agricultural projects with small
forestry components within them. The Lafia Project (Ln. 1454-UNI) and
Ayangba Project (1455-UNI) both included elements designed for the



- 3 -
production of fuelvood and poles. The FAO's most recent support of the
forestry sector has been through the High Forest Development Project (later
Forest Management Capability Project). Canadian aid has been given to
FRIN.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Project Identification
2.01      The initiation of a forestry project by the FGN was first drawn
to the Bank's attention in early 1975 by the FAO/UNDP High Forest
Development Project team. In October 1976 a Bank Reconnassaince mission
visited Nigeria and were informed by the FGN of its desire to have Bank
participation in forestry.
2.02      The proposed project was seen as consolidating efforts to secure
the supply of industrial wood in the light of growing demand and dwindling
resources. In particular the Government commitment to increased pulp
processing capacity to reduce paper and newsprint imports placed further
emphasis on the establishment of plantations of fast growing species.
However the wish to retain the dual purpose of the proposed plantations in
Cross River, Ogun and Ondo States, by growing for pulpwood and sawlogs,
remained central to t;he proposed projects purpose.
Preparation
2.03      In March 1977, a three man Bank Identification Mission visited
Tbadan to discuss the proposed project with the FDF and help in drawing up
terms of reference for the Preparation Mission. A Preparation Mission
returned to Nigeria at the end of April and completed its work by early
June. Its report became available in November 1977 and suggested the
inclusion of a trial plantation at Mbanasa, Anambra. Most of the
preparatory work at this stage was carried out by the FAO/WB/CP with the
aid of the FAO High Forest Development Project.
Appraisal
2.04      An 8 man Appraisal Mission visited Nigeria in April 1978 staffed
equally by World Bank staff and consultants. Doubts were expressed
regarding the economic viability of the proposed plantation program in
Cross River State and in Au-ust 1978 the Cross River State Government
decided not to pursue its part in the proposed project. The final SAR
concluded that industrial plantations of 22,600 ha of gmelina in Ogun and
Ondo States would give an economic return of 13.4 percent on the basis of
producing on a 16 year rotation 1,695,000 m3(r) of thinnings for pulpwood
and, at clearfelling, a further 2,260,000 m3(r) of pulpwood and 2,260,000
m9(r) of sawlog. It also recommended as a pilot project, a plantation of
1,600 ha of Pinus carib-ea snd eucalyptus in Anambra to examine the
economics of long fiber pulpwood production, This, as with the
institutional strengthening aspects of the project, was not included in the
economic return forecast.



-4-
2.05      The pulpwood output was to be reserved for the Iwopin mill and it
was recognized that realistic pulpwood stumpage rates would need to be
agreed if the plantations were to be economic. There were pressures to
keep stumpage rates low but in subsequent negotiations it was agreed that
the project agreements with Ogun and Ondo States would contain a financial
covenant requiring the establishment of stumpage rates that would ensure a
rate of return of at least 11 percent in real terms.
2.06      A further condition of the loan agreements was that Ogun and Ondo
States would each create new menagement and policy units to aid in the
implementation of the subprojects. There were to be a Project Management
Unit (PMU) which would be responsible for the day to day management of the
subprojects and Budget Policy Coordinating Committee (BPCC) which would
review budget and policy matters of agrwcultural projects in which Bank
financing was involved.
2.07      Negotiations were officially concluded in November 1978 and the
final SAR was placed before the Board on 27 March 1979 and loan approval
given. The Loan Agreement was signed on 29 October 1979 with the Loan to
become effective 28 January 1980. This was later postponed until 30 June
1980. The reason for delays was said to be the transition from the
military to civilian governments which was taking place at the time but it
-ppears that the wording of the various legal documents did cause concern
and there had not been a meeting of minds on some of the issues of
involved, in particular the structure and status of the new policy units,
the opening of overdraft facilities for the subprojects and the diversion
of stumpage receipts into subproiect bank accounts. The time between Board
approval and loan effectiveness was not entirely lost insofar as
international staff recruitment took place and initial steps for the
purchase of heavy plant were undertaken.
Project Description
2.08      The project's main objective was to establish two plantations of
fast growing gmelina each of 11,300 ha for use as utility timber and short
fiber pulpwood. This objective was given added weight by the pulp mill
then under construction at Iwopin for which there were insufficient
pulpwood resources. The objective was in accordance with the Third
National Development Plan. A further objective was to establish 1,600 ha
of trial plantations of Pinus caribaea and eucalyptus to investigate the
viability of supplying long fibre pulpwood on a 15 year rotation and/or
sawlogs and poles on a longer rotation.
2.09      A second aim was to strengthen the management capability within
the FDF by the provision of technical assistance. This was intended to
improve FDF's monitoring capability to obtain planning data, its ability to
evaluate operations and thereby improve plantation management, and to give
FDF a sector planning facility capable of assessing the physical and
economic factors involved. In particular it was to study stumpage rates
and aid in the formulaticn of a rational structure.



-5-
2.10      The project as described by the SAR was to be completed in a
5-year period and consisted of the following elements:
A.   Forest Plantation and Food Crop Production
(i) Establishment in the high forest zone of 22,600 ha of gmelina
plantations at the Omo forest reserve, Ogun State and the Oluwa
forest reserve, Ondo State.
(ii)  Establishment in the derived savannah of 1,600 ha of Pinus
Caribaea and eucalyptus trials at the Mbanasa forest reserve,
Anambra State, and introductory trials of tropical pines in other
selected areas.
(iii) Maintenance and protection of 11,000 ha of existing gmelina
plantations in the Omo and Oluwa forest reserves.
(iv)  Establishing adequate plantation protection systems including
the erection of fire towers and of radio communications.
(v) Increasing food production by allowing annually 1,400 ha of
farming by a form of the taungya 1/ annually and planting 500 ha
of maize annually using mechanized and minimum tillage methods in
newly cleared areas before planting with trees.
B.   Civil Works
(i) Construction of project offices, workshops, staff housing and
Lorest villages, improving electricity, water supplies and other
services in the three plantation areas.
(ii)  Construction of abcut 610 km of primary plantation roads and
930 km of plantation tracks, and maintenance of some existing
and new plantation roads.
(iii) Clearing about 27,000 ha of degraded high forest and 1,600 ha of
light savannah woodland for plantation and infrastructure
development.
C.   Institutional Support and Technical Assistance
(i) Strengthening the management of the state plantation projects and
the monitoring and planning capability of FDF by providing the
1/  As envisaged, the farmer would interplant between the rows of
seedlings atd young trees for up to 2 years after clearance and
planting. This reduces the cost of weeding.



- 6 -
required technical, administrative staff and logistical support.
(ii)  Provision of in-service and overseas training.
(iii)  Provision of consultancy services to assist FDF and the States to
review forest policies and technical consultancies aimed at
evaluating the proposed technologies in the forestry sector ald
preparation of future forestry projects.
Targets and Goals
2.11      In retrospect the targeted ennual planting (see Table 1) at the
Ogun and Oluwa plantations was ambitious considering that the proposed
mechanical techniques were relatively untried in high forest areas and
manual techniques had never achieved the levels of establishment proposed.
Other than this the assessment of the physical factors involved and the
techniques and planning required to overcome them appears to have been
reasonably accurate. The assessment of the Mbanasa Plantation as being
suitablt for tropical pines seems to have been overly optimistic.
2.12      Project design however appears insufficient in its assumptions
regarding the use of mechanical clearance and weeding. The topography of
the sites did not allow the exclusive use of machines.  (See paras  3..11 to
13)  Also the road grid proposed did not take sufficient cognisance of
topography and would have been more costly than the amended layout adopted
by the Omo and Oluwa Plantations (see para 3.14).
2.13      There appears to have been some over optimism when assessing the
financial and economic returns of the project. The difficulty stems from
the fact that much of the production of the comercial plantation was
reserved for a single use and that there are considerable differences
between rates of return for short and long rotation forestry. The single
user situation should have led to a more rigorous assessment of the
viability and timing of the Iwopin mill with and without tariff protection
and hidden subsidies from low price raw material (see Annex 1 for further
details).
2.14      In the summary of proposed funding in the SAR it also speaks of
the salvage logging stumpage as a 'revolving fund' i.e. money set aside
temporarily which will eventually be remitted to the State Government. The
indication being that this was additional to the State's contribution. In
the negotiations it was agreed that the stumpage would be treated as part
of the State's contribution.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Project Start-Up
3.01      The IBRD loan became effective on 30 June 1980 by which time many



- 7 -
of the key staff were in place and physical work on the subprojects had
started, even though at a rate less than anticipated in the SAR.
3.02      The Omo Plantation (Ogun State) and the Oluwa Plantation (Ondo
State) were continuations of previous afforeszation activities in which
gmelina plantations of 8,730 ha and 3,900 ha respectively had been
established by manual methods. In the case of the Omo Plantation the
project was able to take over some housing.
3.03      The slowness of meeting the conditions of loan effectiveness was
further hampered by unfamilarity of the executing agencies with World Bank
requirements on procurement procedures. Added to these delays were
difficulties in obtaining port clearances, and later in the project the
need for import licenses, and consequently delivery of capital equipment
spare parts was delayed which slowed down physical work and achievement.
Revision and Changes
3.04      The original objectives in the SAR was to establish 11,300 ha of
plantations at each of the Omo and Oluwa Plantations in a five year period.
This required an establishment rate rising to 3,000 ha per annum in the
third year at each of the Omo and Oluwa Plantations. It soon became
apparent that while the engineering sections at Omo and Oluwa could
probably cope with the clearing requirement the forestry sections could not
plant and successfully maintain a program of thet magnitude given the short
time each year (end of April to end of July) in which to establish the
trees. The target was therefore reduced to 2,000 ha at each plantation.
The loan closing date was for this reason amended, with the Bank's
approval, from 30 June 1985 to 30 June 1986.
3.05      The SAR envisaged extensive taungya  farming at the Omo and Oluwa
Plantations, in which 2,250 farmers were to take part, and also envisaged
some commarcial farming prior to the establishment of trees on cleared
land.  The taungya farming failed to materialize to the extent proposed due
partly to there being insufficient farmers. Also there was a reluctarce in
those who were available to use land that they could use for only one year
due to the rapidity with which gmelina achieved canopy closure. Mechanical
farming prior to planting was hampered by the change in emphasis from
obstacle free clearance and, in any case, contained within it the risk of
soil erosion while the land was in use for farming. Consequently
intercropping using project employed labor became the predominent method of
agriculture at the plantations.
3.05      The target for the Mbanasa Plantation (Anambra State) in the five
year period was 1,600 ha which called for annual planting rising to 450 ha.
Again this was found to be unachievable and the target was reduced to 300
ha. Following extensive fire damage and management problems, the Anambra
State Government reluctantly agreed to the withdrawal of IBRD loan
facilities for work undertaken after 30 September 1984 but agreed that it
would maintain and protect the surviving areas so as not to loose the



- 8 -
valuable trial data that would be available in the future. This it is
doing.
Implementation Schedule
3.07      The project achieved 72 percent of the SAR target for
establishment of plantations, with 85.5 percent of target at Omo
Plantation, 65.2 percent at Oluwa Plantation and 24.0 percent at Mbanasa
Plantation, all after taking account of fire losses (see Table 1). The
Mbanasa Plantation achieved 105 perceat of target within the first three
years but were never able to recover from a combination of fire losses and
failure following an excessively dry season.
3.08      Nursery activities at Omo and Oluwa were initially Insufficient
causing wildings to be collected and therefore inferior stock to be used in
planting. This later improved but it is doubtful whether the nurseries
could have supported the original planting targets. The technique of using
bare root stumps changed in later years to raising seedlings in polythene
containers. At Omo temporary nursery areas were preferred while Oluwa
established a permanent nursery for the production of potted seedlings.
Anambra established a permanent nursery and was successful in supplying
sufficient stock for their planting program.
3.09      Maintenance operations were correctly anticipated but were not
mechanlzed to the extent envisaged. Weeding operations suffered when funds
were short and therefore became a limiting factor in successful
establishment.
3.10      The use of mechanical means of clearing and windrowing in the Omo
and Oluwa was not total as envisaged in the SAR. Omo cleared 36 percent
and Oluwa 75 percent of the land mechanically. The delays In procurement
meant that much of the heavy plant did not arrive until 1981/82 thus having
some effect on these figures.
3.11      In operation the SAR estimates of machine availability, which
ranged from 75 percent in year 1 to 56 percent in year 5, proved optimistic
and actual figures for 1985 and 1986 show approximately 50 percent
availability. Effectiveness also proved slightly less than expectation,
and it took 8.5 machine hours per ha to knockdown, windrow and pack as
against the 8 hours estimated. In practice it was found unnecessary, and
undesirable to achieve obstacle-free clearance. Such levels of clearance
could lead to soil damage, from compactio by clearing machines or from
erosion due to exposure, in addition to being more costly. Also the
technique of using a tree pusher to uproot trees was damaging the soil and
it was found preferable to use a shear blade for smaller trees and power
saws for larger trees. Even then it was found that machine time could be
wasted by attempting to use a tractor with a shear blade for felling larger
trees rather than a man with a power saw. Mechanical windrowing with a
multi-Application rake can also have the effect of compacting or removing
soil. Both felling and windrowing therefore require skilled machine
operators. It was found that mechanical land clearing carried out



- 9 -
carefully, preferably in the dry season (October to March), was fully
feasible and had the advantage of leaving less debris than manual cleaning.
This is of signifJcance when considering the fire risk.
3.12      A totally obstacle free ground is not necessary nor desirable for
the establishment of forest plantation under the given rainfall regire but
the change in methodology led, together with the site topography to a
change from mechanical to manual clearance.
3.13      The topography of the sites did not allow the exclusive use of
machines and manual methods of clearing and weeding had to be used.
Complaints against contractors, used for manual works, were numerous. The
funding of the work was not regular and complaints arose from both the
management and contractor sides. Supervision of manual operations was a
weak point at the Oluwa Plantation particularly early in the Project.
3.14      The SAR specification for roads gave two classes:
primary-gravelled, compacted and to the dimensions for local
council roads; and
tracks - minimum standard, not surfaced and located to ensure
minimum drainage cost.
The specification allowed for 2 km of primary road and 3 km of tracks per
100 ha of plantation. The project found it necessary to have three classes
of road.
Class 1 - Primary roads from project site to main highway,
7.3 m wide to take heavy traffic in all weathers.
Class 2 - All weather roads, 6 m wide to take lighter traffic.
Class 3 - Dry weather roads, not turfaced or culverted for
access only.
Deviation in road layout took place for topographical reasons. The project
surveyors marked out 25 ha blocks (500 m x 500 m) with 10 meters between
each block for roads. After knockdown, and when windrowing, the roads are
relocated on suitable contours to cut drainage costs. It was found that
only 15 percent of the road area required laterite. The road construction
was carried out by the plantation road units in Omo and Oluwa and
contractors at Mbanasa. Details are shown in Table 2.
3.15      The building components of the project to be carried out at the
Omo and Oluwa were not completed as envisaged in the SAR. The Omo
plantation did not require as many units as assessed in the SAR as it was
able to make use of housing inherited from previoue forestry activities and
was also more successful in the building it carried out because it staged
its program and used force account rather than contractors. At the Oluwa
Plantation too many contracts were given to too many contractors who then



- 10 -
svffered from funding and supply difficulties that resulted in non
completion. Consequently there are now many incompYete buildings on the
plantation. Temporary workshops were constructed for both Omo and Oluwa.
Table 3 gives details of targets and completions. Electricity supplies for
the Omo and Oluwa Plantations were upgraded by the purchase of generators
and both plantations have now installed water treatment plants but have not
yet completed the distribution systems. For most of the time the two
plantations relied on water delivered by their own water tankers.
3.16      The Omo and Oluwa Plantations were hesitant in making adequate
provisions against fire hazards because the risk in years of normal
rainfall is low. Project management units also initially lacked experience
of fire risk in large scale plantations. A steel fire tower was
constructed in the Omo Plantation and a small wooden temporary tower in the
Oluwa Plantation where there are now also four further wooden towers under
construction. There is no radio equipment in working order at any of the
plantations although Oluwa are now taking steps tc rectify the situation of
that plantation. The main fire fighting vehicle at the Omo and Oluwa
Plantation is a 4-wheel drive vehicle with a 400 gallon slip on water tank.
Hand fire fighting tools are available and fire crews have been trained by
the project. Construction and maintenance of fire breaks has not always
been to an acceptable standard.
3.17      Fire losses at the Oluwa Plantation were 959 ha and at the
Mbanasa Plantation 494 ha (see Table 1). The Mbanasa fires were said to
have been started by farmers during the extremely dry conditions of 1982.
The Oluwa outbreak proved difficult to control because manual clearing had
resulted in difficult access for fire fighting vehicles and equipment.
3.18      As already stated (para 3.05) the original SAR concept for
agricultural production was found to be unsuitable. Intercropping, using
project employed labor, was practiced and some agricultural use was made of
land after clearing and before tree planting. Maize, upland rice, cassava,
cowpeas, plantains and soyabeans were tried as crops. The Omo Plantation
also engaged in some poultry farming. Maize and poultry farming proved to
be the most successful although the maize yield never exceeded one ton per
ha. Harvesting and threshing proved a problem with the rice crop and much
of the crop was lost. Cassava was used in intercropping but was found to
compete with the gmelina crop if spacing and timing was not carefully
considered. The project was able to show that agricultural and forestry
activities could be compatible and was highly commended in this respect by
the State Governments. More experimentation is, however, required and the
methodology of carrying out the agricultural activity needs careful
examination.  Current methods cause competition for scarce labor at crucial
periods of the year. Also the financial return on the activities must be
improved as they should generate cash for the Project and not, as now, fail
to meet even their direct costs without charges for the use of buildings
and machinery.



- 11 -
Costs
3.19      Between appraisal and physical start the cost of labor rose
considerably, minimum agricultural laborers rate increased from N2.63 to
N4.65 per day (the project paid an average of N5.70 per day), but labor
rates then remained static until 1986. Nevertheless, in the seven years of
the Project an internal inflation rate, averaging almost 20 percent per
year, and a rapid depreciation of the Naira as against international
currencies, (the exchange rate slipped from the official rate in 1979 of N1
= $1.784 to the present SFEK rate of N1 - $0.25) occurred. Fuel prices,
important in a highly mechanized forestry project, remained stable until
1985 when they were increased substantially. The Project required the high
46.7 percent physical and price contingency allowed for in the SAR.
3..20     In the SAR the cost of forest clearance was stated to be about
$800 (N520) per ha. Historic financial costs in 1985 have been calculated
at N574 using 160 per hour for heavy plant. As much of the cost is a
foreign exchange cost, it needs adjusting to a post SFEM 1986 cost of about
11,600 per ha. Manual land clearance in 1986 was estimated at N442 per ha.
The nursery cost per ha of planting for gmelina plantations was originally
estimated at 178 and in 1985 the actual cost was 1110 per ha. The actual
costs of planting and maintenance for 1984/85 for the Omo and Oluwa
Plantations are given in Tables 4a and b.
3.21      Road construction costs were originally estimated at an average
of 12,530 per km and actual costs were 12,980 per km but the revised layout
brought the cost per ha of established plantation down at the Omo and Oluwa
plantation to 1119 as against M126 anticipated in the SAR.
3.22      The comparison of actual building cost against original estimates
is:
Estimated      Actual          % Completion
1             1
Mbanasa Plantation        1,110,800      231,000              12
Omo Plantation            4,562,900    1,428,iOO              25
Oluwa Plantation          4,562,900    3,362,600              29
FORKEU                      468,000    1,052,200             100
TOTAL                  10,704,600    6,074,300
-O00Z         57%
The above takes account of the 47 percent physical and price contingencies
allowed in the SAR.
The FORMEU building cost includes the cost of building a training center
not included in the original building estimates. Costs were effected by
inflation, upgrading building specification of staff housing from



- 12 -
prefabricated to permanent structures, and poor execution, especially at
the Oluwa Plantation.
3.23      Total costs of establishment per ha including all infrastructure
costs are:
SAR Estimate        Actual
(incl. contingencies)
Mbanasa Plantation              N 2,500            N 5,177
Omo Plantation                  N 1,989            N 2,320
Oluwa Plantation                N 1,989            N 3,044
The figure for Mbanasa has been adjusted to take account of the total area
established prior to the fire damage but neither the Mbanasa nor Oluwa
figures have been adjusted for the cost of reestablishing the fire damaged
areas.
3.24      Total costs of the project and its components are given in Tables
6a to e. Summarized they are:
SAR Estimate        Actual
N'000             NwOOO
Mbanasa Plantation                4,000              3,935
Omo Plantation                   22,475            22,428
Oluwa Plantation                 22,475            22,414
FORMEU                            2,550             5,750
Total                       51,500            54,527
The overall increase in expenditure is solely due to increased FORMIEU
costs, part of which are increased FORMEU responsibilities and the building
and running costs of the Forest Manpower Development Center. Building and
vehicle and equipment expenditure were N4,630,000 and N2,229,000
respectively lower than SAR estimates inclusive of contingencies.
Salaries. wages and forestry contractor expenditure was N13,800,000
overspent.
Funding
3.25      The funding of the project is summarized in Tables 6a to e and a
comparison with originally agreed levels in Table 7a and b )oth in naira
and dollar terms. Neither the comparison in naira nor dollar is
satisfactory due to distortions caused by differing external and internal
inflation rates and changing exchange rates. Therefore Table 8 gives a
reassessment of local and foreign costs in Naira and their financing . It
is evident that some local costs had to be met from the IBRD loan. The
local labor content of the project costs, including forestry contractors,
are approx. N12 million in the SAR whereas the actual costs were almost N26



- 13 -
million representing mostly the change of emphasis from mechanical to
manual clearing and weeding. Following reallocation between loan
categories the IBRD loan was used to finance $4.8 million (N8.7 million) of
local salaries. The balance of the difference (approx. N5 million) was
funded by the diversion of funds from other operating expenses and capital
expenditure.
3.26      The Project was collectively over liquid at the end of 1980 and
1981, and even at the end of 1982 it had cash reserves equal to three
months local expenditure but slow State funding was causing concern. There
is evidence that Federal fund balances could have been managed somewhat
better although the need for equity of allocation between subprojects and
natural caution in running balances too low probably accounted for the
tendency of FORMEU to hold relatively high balances. By 1984 funds were
scarce throughout the project. The timing of funding is given in Table 7b
in both naira and dollar terms.
Technical Assistance
3.27      The program of studies recommended in the SAR covered an
examinastion of forest clearing techniques, nursery and plantation
practices, growth rates of plantation species through mensuration, timber
technology, charcoal production and land usage, and advice on staff
training. The studies of nursery and plantation practices and forest
clearing techniques were carried out. There was assistance in specific
areas of staff training from consultants and a full time training officer
was attached to FORMEU. Although a full study of timber technology as
related to the use of the plantation products was not carried out, tests of
the use of gmelina logs for peeling and sawing were undertaken and were
successful. Also some work was carried out on yields of plantation
species. The studies undertaken were useful and helped guide the Project's
activities. The studies on land usage and charcoal production were not
undertaken.
3.28      A covenant in the Project Agreements with Ogun and Ondo States
required a study of stumpage rates to be carried out. Two studies were
carried out and solutions acceptable to the States and Bank were
recommended but they have not been implemented due to resistance from
representaLives of the pulp and paper mills. Until the economic viability
of the Iwopin mill is established and its future assured, any Lalculation,
on whatever basis, of pulpwood stumpage is academic.
3.29      It was foreseen in the SAR that consultancy help would be
required in preparing other, and follow on, projects in the forestry
sector. This facility was used to prepare the Ogun and Ondo States
component of the Nigeria Second Forestry Project which received Board
approval for Bank finance on 21 October 1986. Other conrultancies, not
foreseen in the SAR, were undertaken, and proved useful, covering
management and organization, soil analysis and manpower planning.
3.30      A program of 123 man months for courses and fellowships was
allowed for in the SAR covering forest economics, forest management, forest



- 14 -
clearing, nursery and plantation establishment, fire protection and post
graduate studies. In total a 112 man months were used involving approx. 30
federal and state forestry staff in one or more of the above areas of
study, see Table 5. The training covered areas of weakness in the Federal
and State forestry services and helped to build a reservoir of trained
staff for the forest services as a whole.
3.31      In service training was recognized as important in the SAR and,
since the establishment of FORMEU's training unit in 1981, training courses
have been developed for professional foresters, junior technical staff and
supervisors and foreman. The unit operated from FORMEU's headquarters in
rbadan until 1985 when it moved into its own newly built Forest Manpower
Training Center on the Oluwa Plantation. Throughout the units life it has
cooperated with other organizations - ARMITI, FRIN, IITA and FAO in
providing relevant training.
Contractors and Suppliers
3.32      Contractors were used for manual land clearance, planting and
other silviculture operations far more extensively than anticipated. The
standard of land clearing achieved by them was not always satisfactory and
points to the need for good supervision. Similar, but more serious,
problems were encountered with building contractors especially at the Oluwa
Plantation where a combination of funding and performance problems left
many buildings incomplete.  This leads to some doubts as to whether local
small scale contracting is a suitable method for this type of building
program.
3.33      Suppliers generally performed well although hampered by clearing
diff .ilties at the ports of entry. Some problems were encountered with
heavy pl-int initially but the manufacturers cooperated well in adapting it
to work in high forest clearing. Two machines were destroyed by fire,
allegedly due to poor design, and compensation is being sought from the
manufacturer.
Procurement
3.34      As already stated in para 3.03 initial unfamiliarity with World
Bank requirements did cause delays in the procurement procedures.
Difficulties were at times encounted with terms of payment and also failure
to award contracts within the 60 days specified in the tender documents.
This led to later disputes and efforts to increase quoted prices. Some
eleviation of the problems may have been possible with wider use of Bank
guaranteed letters of credit but the need for quick decisions is paramount
in this situation and yet difficult to achieve given the number of
interests involved and the slow communications.
Reporting
3.35      The project and subprojects reported quarterly and adequately.
In the first two years there were delays in obtaining audit reports but by



- 15 -
the end of 1983 the reports were up-to-date although, at times, reports
were not always received within the 4 months stipulated.
Management
3.36      The management at project and plantation levels were able to
create stable management unit- from the outset. There were problems and at
the Oluwa Plantation it became necessary to change the Project Manager to
avoid a deteriorating situation from persisting. The position of Financial
Adviser at FORMEU was not satisfactorily filled until the last stage of the
project as the first occupants of the post never undertook their wider
advisory duties. Most of the internationally recruited staff performed
adequately and trained their counterparts to achieve a smooth handover.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.01      Both the physical and insititutional developments undertaken by
the project may be looked upon as successful. At the end of the project
there is in existence 72 percent of the plantation area that had been set
as a target (see Table 1). This would have been higher but for fire
damage. Of the commercial plantations that it had been intended to
establish the project achieved over 75% of the target. In doing so they
build up institutional frameworks that, given the funds, are capable of
directing, monitoring and undertaking forestry investment.
4.02      The technology of mechanized clearing and weeding for forestry
establishment in high forest conditions was relatively new. Operationally
both methods have advantages and disadvantages and these have been
demonstrated in the project. Mechanical clearing results in a ground much
clearer for debris and stumps than does manual clearing. This facilitates
planting, weeding and reduces the fire risk. On the other hand if care is
not taken in both felling and windrowing mechanical clearing will result in
a higher degree of soil erosion. Manual clearance was blamed partially for
the severity of the fire loss at Oluwa. Because of the large scale nature
of the Project the use of both systems was useful. At the beginning of the
project the costs of manual and mechanical clearing were close but as the
relative price of labor fell the balance swung in favor of manual methods.
Nevertheless the experience Indicates that shortages of labor can be
aleviated by the use of machines and, to some extent, the failure to use
mechanical weeding extensively caused some competition for labor.
4.03      The successful establishment of the plantations has created a
resource. Only the setting of realistic stumpage rates will now ensure the
correct use of the resource and this does not appear to be any nearer
fruition. The setting of rates for gmelina pulpwood cannot be divorced
from setting other stumpage rates and yet it is unrealistic to suppose
that, with all the different Federal, State and industrial interests
involved, a quick and all embracing solution will ever be accepted. Each
state in Nigeria has a different set of interests to balance - they may be



- 16 -
social, ecological, economic or financial - which impact on stumpage levels
and there will be wide differences in costs between States in the North and
those in the South but politically none of the States will wish to be
radically different in assessing stumpage rates. Continuing negotiations
may raise the level of awareness of the economics of both the growing and
utilization of timber but it may be expedient, in the short term, to agree
a stumpage rate not wholly consistent with reasonable financial rates of
return in order to achieve certainty in assessing future i-vestmeut policy.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      Any financial analysis of the project is of limited value due to
distortion of costs by high internal inflation rates and the effect of
traditionally low stumpage rates. The SAR confined itself to calculating
the economic return on the project and produced only an example of a
projected cash flow for a state with an industrial plantation.
Nevertheless financial rates of return and cash flows for the subprojects
and total project have been calculated (Table 9) to give some comparison of
management achievements at the three plantations and also an indication of
minimum stumpages required to achieve reasonable financial returns and
service associated debts. Annex 1 discusses the results in more detail.
Financial Internal Rate of Return
5.02      The financial IRR for the project is dependent on the eventual
use of the product and the setting of realistic stumpage rates. The only
certain end use at the moment is for sawlogs which gives a low financial
IRR for the project of 4.9 percent. If pulpwood is produced a slightly
better IRR of 9.6 percent is achievable. Even then both are dependent on
agreeing presently proposed stumpage rates. To achieve reasonable rates of
return much higher prices are now required.
Cash Flows
5.03      Table 10 gives the estimated cash flows for each of the states
and the Federal government. Anambra State and the Federal Government both
show cash deficits over the 33 years considered. Anambra State will have a
cash deficiency of 110 million over the period stemming from the low
internal rate of return from the Mbanasa Plantation as against an high cost
of debt servicing. The Federal Governments cash deficit of N27 million is
caused by its grants to the States, N13 million, the expenditure on FORMEU,
N5.5 million and a deficit from debt servicing, N8.5 million covering both
borrowing for its own part of the project and the subsidy allowed to
Anambra State on debt servicing.
5.04      The states of Ogun and Ondo will achieve cash surpluses of 170
million and N41 million respectively. Ogun will achieve a positive
cumulative cash flow by 2002 and Ondo by 2003 but this assumes use of the
forest resource for pulpwood as from 1990. Use of the resource for sawlogs



- 17 -
reduces the net cash flows of Ogun and Ondo to N17 million and Nl million
respectively and puts back the break even point of cumulative cash flows to
2008 and 2010 respectively.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.05      The various aspects to which the financial IRR is sensitive are
dealt with in more detail in Annex 1. The general picture is that the
small margins are quickly eroded by failure to achieve proposed rates of
stumpage and, in the case of pulpwood, delays in harvesting.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Management and Organization
6.01      The management and organization of Nigeria's forestry sector is
complicated by the relationship between the Federal and State Governments
in the sector. Essentially two Federal Ministries, the FMAWR and FPI, had
provided funds to the states to carry out afforestation projects. The
states, through their MANR, undertook most of the projects, managed the
natural forest and set stumpage rat s and structures.  FDF acted as agent
for FMI in carrying out a national pulpwood scheme.
6.02      The project set out to strengthen the role of the FMAWR via FDF,
by improving its monitoring and advisory functions, and provide a
management stl4cture within the state government systems that could
undertake large and complex projects. At the Federal level the change was
to be brought about by the creation of FORMEU within FDF and providing
technical assistance to the new unit. The unit was, with the aid of
training and internationally recruited staff, quickly able to form itself
into an effective organization. Its role was a difficult one given the
independence of the State's MANRs. Initially in its monitoring function it
was too ambitious in trying to cover all states in a detailed manner. It
later limited its area of operation to the states involved in the project
which has provided valuable data in the area of work study and plantation
development. In view of the needs for sectoral planning another compromise
may have been to have continued to seek nationwide coverage at a reduced
level of information. It is significant that the latest figures for forest
production are estimates based on 1980 actuals.
6.03      FORMEU has produced useful information and guidance through the
use of publications, the activities of the FMDC and its sponsorship of the
Tariff Committee. Through FORMEU's monitoring of state project units much
advise was given. Advise on financial matters was less than desirable.
6.04      At the state level in Ogun and On.o, the PMU's became effective
units and fulfilled their functions. They developed, over time, to provide
self monitoring systems and they adapted to changed situations well. The



- 18 -
position of the BPCC's (renamed Agricultural Projects Governing Board in
Ondo) in the States is less clear. While they may have acted as forums for
policy making there is little evidence that they played a significant role
in the determination of policy. Some criticism was directed at them early
in the project for helping to delay the procurement procedures.
6.05      The position in Anambra State was different in that no PMU or
BPCC existed X- 4 a unit of the Forestry Division of the MANR directly
performed the execution of the subproject. The division initially
performed its task well as far as establishment was concerned. Later there
were severe problems of management and timing of activities such as
planting, fertilizer application and weeding. The suitability of the area
concernec for a trial plantation is questionable because of the long
distance to any of the pulpmills which were under construction.
Furthermore the site was extremely unfertile and this had resulted in the
virtual abandoning of a previous federal pulpwood scheme for Gmelina in the
area. The trial should have been superceeded by a study of the experience
already gained with pine in Nigeria. The scale was also inappropriate,
larger than was necessary for a research trial and too small for rational
plantation establishment. The project was therefore operated from
headquarters at Enugu some 100 km from the project site. This accentuated
problems of supervision and management.
Staffing
6.06      With projects that require a high level of initial activity
followed by levels of activity that vary seasonally it is difficult to
define correct staffing levels or the necessary balance of staff between
management, service, administrative and operational functions. There is
some evidence that the management, service and administrative staff grew
faster than the operational staff particularly in the Omo and Oluwa
Plantations. It also remained higher than necessary when plantations
establishment targets were reduced. FORMEU was overstaffed and only
reduced when country wide monitoring ceased.
6.07      The quality of staffing was mostly adequate and training, both
in-service and external, helped develop a good level of performance.
6.08      Internationally recruited and contract staff played important
roles in the project. Performance varied with individuals but in general
Forestry and engineering staff performed well as did the
monitoring/advisory staff in FORMEU. There was great variability in the
financial staffing although the current encumbents are performing
satisfactorily. Likewise at the plantation management level there were
extremes and it became necessary to make changes at Oluwa Plantation. In
all cases they trained counterparts and in many cases the transfer of
responsbility has been carried out successfully.



- 19 -
Consultancies
6.09      Consultancy services were not extensively used by the project.
The reports produced did act as a basis for policy and action in the areas
covered, stumpage rates, manpower planning and project implementation.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
7.01      Again, the only certain market for the plantations product is as
sawlogs which gives an economic rate of return of 10.6% for the Project.
If the plantations are used for pulpwood this rises to a more acceptsble
13.7%. The factors used in this assessment are given in Annex 1.
7.02      The SAR calculated the economic rate of return on the basis of
the Omo and Oluva Plantations but this included stumpage from salvage
logging which it is questionable to include in such a calculation. It also
assumed the production of pulpwood and sawlogs. Without the salvage
stumpage income the calculation would have shown 11.6 percent return and
the equivalent calculation now shows a 15.3 percent return from the
production of purely pulpwood from the plantations.
7.03      The project had distributive effects in that it employed almost
4,000 mAn years of temporary labor directly and probably a similar number
via contractors. Although its own efforts at farming were not financially
successful it did provide cleared land for the local population engaged in
tree crop farming in enclaves within the perimeter of the forest reserve.
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
8.01      Concern was expressed, particularly in Ondo and Anambra,
regarding the environmental impact of the plantations. In Ondo it was that
high forest was being destroyed without optimum prior salvage logging and
this did occur at times. Also clearance of areas not suitable for planting
resulted in the loss of some original wild life habitat. This stresses the
need for careful survey of areas to be cleared well in advance of clearance
and strong supervision of manual and mechanized operations. However such
careful planning was frustrated by the initial scale of the operation.
8.02      A second area of concern expressed in Ondo was the adoption of a
monculture in a, previously, high forest area. Suggestions were made to
include local species in the planting program. Given the urgency to plant
to prevent future timber shortages, little could be done in the Project but
there is a need to plan and finance a program which does include some of
the slower growing species.
8.03      In Anambra the problem seems to have been more one of competition
between farmer and forester in the area which had nat, prior to the
Project, been declared a forest reserve. It does call though for more
consultation with local people to explain the nature and aims of the



- 20 -.
development. It also requires a knowledge of their needs and recognition
of them during planning and implementation stages.
IX. BANK PERFORMANCE
Project Justification
9.01      The Bank's appraisal of Nigerian forestry requirements into the
21st century appear basically sound. Natural forest resources are
dwindling rapidly, the plantation establishment program was not sufficient
to take over the short fall that is expected by the year 2000. Gmelina is
a fast growing species that will thrive in Nigerian conditions helping to
offset the expected deficit and at the same time offered security of supply
in the short term to a pulp and paper mill expected to be completed during
the life of the project. The appraisal may not have looked carefully
enough at the part that the mill development was to play in the economic
justification of the Omo and Oluwa plantations and therefore the importance
to the plantation of the mill start up time - current FGN projections say
1990 but are by no means 100 percent reliable. Also the economics of the
Iwopin Mill seem to be based on a high tariff wall in an industry of
changing technology and therefore prices. Again it calls into question the
market for part of the plantations product. The last option market as
sawlogs is bedevilled by traditional levels of stumpage rates that are
isolated from international rates by an export ban and thus produces
depressed financial returns.
9.02      The justification of the component of the project aimed at
establishing trials of pine and eucalyptus is less clear. Although trials
were justified the size and location of the trials are in doubt. As part
of the justification was to provide long fiber pulp smaller trials located
aearer mill sites might have been more appropriate. As a source of sawlogs
and posts in a timber deficient area the trials are more justified if
realistic stumpage rates can be achieved.
9.03      The results of the project show that the assessment that
plantation establishment in Nigeria could be carried on at a faster rate
was correct but it was optimistic with regard to speed and cost. The
technology of converting high forest to plantations by predominantly
mechanical methods is partially proved but the economics of mechanical as
against manual methods are not.
Implementation and Supervision
9.04      The project was slow to start as the Bank had underestimated the
time required to complete and the complexity of the administrative/legal
tasks in four separate government entities. The Bank also did not fully
appreciate that its procurement and contracting requirements are not
clearly understood by staff often unfamiliar with the drafting and
assessment of tender documents locally let alone those involving
international competitive bidding.



- 21 -
9.05      Bank supervision of the project was objective and constructive
although more regular visits would have helped the dialogue needed in
developing situations. The one serious dispute between the Bank's
representative and project management unit regarding the management of the
Oluwa Plintation was resolved in favor of the Bank's view after being
reviewed by a panel of Ondo State and Federal officials. The Bank's
influence at State and Federal levels were useful to the project enabling
it to have its problems revieved and independently placed before senior
State and Federal officials.
X. CONCLUSIONS
Physical Techniques
10.01    Manual clearance of high forest demands a high level of
supervision whether carried out by contractors or directly employed staff.
10.02    Mechanical clearance can be effective providing plant operators
are taught to remove the minimum amount of topsoil and cause the least
possible compaction in the operations. Tree pushers, to remove the whole
stump, are not appropriate and shear blades are to be preferred as they
cause less soil disturbance. This can however lead to problems with
mechanical weeding later. Expensive machine time can be wasted on trying
to remove large trees better dealt with by chain saws. Plant needs special
adaption for high forest conditions. The timing of operations for the dry
season is important.
10.03    Careful investigation and demarcation of areas to be cleared must
be carried out by forestry staff. It has been found that at times
clearance of rich natural forest has been carried out unnecessarily. There
is a tendency to clear more than necessary viewed from two standpoints.
Firstly to clear land that cannot be successfully planted, e.g. in swamps,
thereby damaging the environment unnecessarily and destroying what would be
good fire breaks and wildlife habitat for the future. Secondly if more
land is cleared than can be planted in the following wet season a second
clearing will have to take place raisiDg costs and further degrading the
soil.
10.04     The building program was badly implemented at the Oluwa
Plantation. Whether carried out on force account or let out to local
contractors strong and constant technical and financial supervision is
essential. The Project needed to program building work more sensibly and,
at an early stage, dismiss contractors who did not perform more readily.
Policy
10.05     The effort to achieve realistic stumpage rates must continue.  It
is probably impracticle, and undesirable, to have uniform rates throughout
Nigeria and so the influence on rates must be applied by education and



- 22 -
information. The monitoring of prices at stump and of end products both
locally and internationally is part of the process. The dissemination of
this Information with comment on its implications may widen the present
debate which appears to be centered on whether subsidization of local paper
making will take place at the port, in the factory or in the forest.
10.06     Agricultural activities have proved financially unprofitable.
They are politically popular and add to the projects acceptance locally.
They probably need to be continued in a limited way but must not be allowed
to compete for labor with the forestry operations.
10.07     Overstaffing causes project work to bear higo overheads.  There
must be a constant control of staff numbers and the effects of physical
start up and eventual rundown kept in mind and acted upon.
10.08     In a seasonally variable operation such as forestry the timing of
funds becomes crucial. It is evident that early planting is more likely to
be successful that, late planting. It is therefore absolutely essential
that resources, ant! therefore funds, are available at such critical times
of the year. In financial management terms this means short term cash
budgeting in addition to anual budgeting. A simple quarter by quarter
payment approach leads to over and under funding.  In the case of this
project where three separate funding agencies were involved in each
subproject it also required central direction to adjust for shortcomings in
State funding.
10.09     The financial and economic analysis of this project have been
based on a simple approach to harvesting policy. In reality it is a
complex decision process which needs constant consideration. At the moment
the two States primarily involved, Ogun and Ondo, do not have the expertise
and experience needed to make the harvesting decisions. There is a danger,
especially if the Iwopin mill does become the major customer, that
harvesting decisions that do not give the best long term return from both
the pre-project and project plantations will be taken. Some of those
decisions are imminent and steps to build up the capability are now
required.
10.10     The size of individual plantation developments needs careful
consideration. The two large plantations in the Project did not meet their
annual targets and reason cannot be traced to one single factor although
funding was an important one. The sheer management ability to pull
together at the precise time in a remote location all of the resources
needed for success must be considered. It may be that in high forest
condition one management unit is not capable of achieving a program of more
than 2,000 ha of planting per annum and the results of the Project suggest
that these are reasonable achievable targets. To achieve the best
utilization of the existing high forest though even targets of 2,000 ha may
be too high and 500 ha per annum may be the limit.



- 23 -
10.11    Purely gaelina pulpwood plantations in the high forest area can
offer an acceptable rsto of economic return providing they are tied tightly
.nto the development of an economdeally viable pulp mill.



NIGFRIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
PLANTAT ION ESTABL ISHMENT
LOSSES                        TOTAL      V.      SAR
PLANTED       FIRE    FAILED      REPLANTED   EXISTING OF 7ARGET  TARGET
Ha          Ha       Ha           Ha          "a                 Ha
DM0 PLANTATION - OMUN STATE
1960              1000                                           1000              1000
1981              1600                                           1600              1800
1982              2385                                           2385              250)
1983              1211                                           1211              3000
1984              1570                                           1570              30tl0
1995              1000                                           1000
1986               900                                            900
Subtotal              9666                                           9666    8e.5    1130t)
OLUWA PLANTATION -ONDO STATE
1980               945           48       66                      831              1000
1981              1128          B51                   86          343              1800
1982              1600           60      600                      940              2500)
1983               714                              1559         2273              3(000
1984              1475                                           1475              3000
1985              1000                                           1000
1986               500                                            500
Subtotal              7362          959      668         1625        7362     65.2    11300
MDNS  PLANTATION -ANAMBiRA STATE
1980                40                                             40                100
1981               300          150      150                                        200t 
1982               400          344                   150         206               400  4
1983                                                                                450
1984                20                               118          138               450
Subtotal               760          494      150          268         384     24.0      1600
TOTAL                 17788        1453      816         1893       17412     72.0    24200
1



NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Road Construction
Omo                                Oluva                                Anambra
SAR Targiet       Actual             SAR Target                         Siga TargetAcua
Original  Ameuad                     orgainal   Amended*   Actual              inal  Amended*Actual
km        km           km             km        km          km              km        km         km
1980           100       50.0          -             100       47.3        10.0            10.9      2.0
1981           135       80.0          8.0           135       56.4        76.4            21.6     15.0         -
1982           163      119.3         80.2           163       80.0        74.3           21.6      20.0        6.0
1983           163       60.6        115.2          163        35.7        36.7           21.6       -         15.0
1984           163       78.5        47.2           163        73.8       82.9            21.6       1.0       10.0
1985            -        50.0         31.7           -         50.0        74.8            -         -          8.0
1986            -        45.0         10.6           -         25.0       40.2             -         -           -
TOTAL           724     483.4        292.9           724      368.2       395.3            97.3     38.0       39.0
Average
cost N/km       2,530    2,530        2,980          2,530     2,530       2,980           2,530     -           -
Average
coat N/ha         136      126          119            136       126         119            -        -
*  Adjusted to take account of actuat area planted but at km 5 per 100 ha noL km 5 per 93 ha.



NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
BUILDINGS
ANAMBRA             OEUN              ONDO              FORMEU
DESCRIPTION       TARGET   ACTUAL   TARGET   ACTUAL   TARGET   ACTUAL    TARGET   ACTUAL
HOUSING
Senior Staff                 7        2       17        8       17       10         3        4
Intermediate Staff         12                60        7       60        8
Guest                        1                 1                 1        1
Junior Staff                15                60       10       60       19
Labour Lines                40               400       36      400       34
Stewards Ouarters                                       8
Office Block                  1        1        1        1        I        1         1
Workshop                      1                 1        1        1        1 \1
Farm House                                               I
Club House                                               I                 I
Water Plant House                                                          I
Schools                                         1                 1        1
Dispensary                    1                 1        1 \1     1        1
Community Hall                1                 I                 1
Fuel Store                    1                 1        1        1        1
Poultry House                                            1
Maize Cribs                                             14                13                         t
Water Treatment Plant                           1        1        1        1                         I
ACHIEVEMENT \2             100%      12X     100%      25X     100l      29X      100%     1007.
\1 Temporary building only
\2 Weighted to original building estimates



NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Costs - Omo 1984-85
Year 1984                                                         Year 1985
Operation                          m/d/ha       Cost/ha (N)        Operation                          m/d/ha         Cost/ha (N)
Demarcation                         0.65            4.39           De\marcation                        0.88            5.71
Cuts and distribute pegs            0.95            7.49           Cut and distribute pegs              -               -
Initial burning                      -               -             Initial burning                     0.12            1.13
Squaring                            1.61           11.76           Squaring                             1.30          10.53
Transport and distribute pots       0.95            7.46           Transport and distribute pots        2.10          15.28
Planting                            5.61          46.25            Planting                            7.33           53.77
Beating up                          0.84            6.43           Beating up                          0.54            3.63    1
Preplanting weeding                 0.90           6.22            Preplanting weeding                 0.36            2.25   0
Weeding (x 1.82)                   13.36          114.17         * Weeding (x 0.59)                    4.84           31.49
Cleaning (x 0.79)                   6.13          50.24          * Cleaning (x 0.24)                   1.99           14.26
Fire protection and ride                                           Fire protection and ride
maintenance                        1.26          10.26              maintenance                       2.14           21.00
Miscellaneous                        -               -             Miscellaneous, Stocking
taking etc.                      0.07            0.51
Plant and vehicle                   (included in above             Plant and vehicle                    -             18.59
costs)
Total per ha                       22&&j  264.67                   Total per ha                        21.67          178.11
* insufficient weeding and cleaning done.
'-I



NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Costs - Oluwa 1984-85
Year 1984                                                       Year 1985
Operation                         m/d/ha        Cost/ha (N)        Operation                         m/d/ha         Cost/ha (N)
Demarcation                        0.49           2.47             Demarcation                        0.74            3.76
Cut and distribute pegs            1.67           8.35             Cut and distribute pegs            0.15            0.76
Squaring                           1.71           8.55             Squaring                           1.53            9.55
Transport and distribute plants   1.83            9.16             Transport and distribute plants   3.64            18.51
Planting                           3.71          18.56             Planting                           4.17           24.24
Beating up                         0.45           2.25             Beating up                          -               -
Preplanting weed manual            0.05           0.25             Preplanting weed manual             -               -
Preplanting weed mechenical        0.03           4.35
Weeding (x 1.04)                   7.79          40.59           * Weeding (x 0.85)                   6.15           30.89
Cleaning (x 0.66)                  5.87          29.33          * Cleaning (x 0.13)                   1.32            6.61
Fire protection and ride                                          Fire protection and ride
maintenance                      1.92           9.62              maintenance                       2.75           13.94
Miscellaneous assess failures                                     Miscellaneous                        -               -
etc.                             1.71           6.43
Plant and vehicle                  (included in above             Plant and vehicle                    -             22.63
costs)
Total per ha                      27;23         139.91             Total per ha                      20.45          13089
*  insufficient weeding and cleaning done.                                                                                   X



- 30 -
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT                     TABLE 5
FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
SAR                     ACTUAL
Proposal
man month  Country   Number    Months Man months
Forest Economics
post graduate         24      U.K.           1       12       12
U.S.A.        3        18       54
Forest Management
post graduate          12     U.K.          6         3       18
Forest Clearing
study tour             18     Ivory Coast  10                 2.S
Ghana         2                 1.5
Nursery and Plantation
Establishment - study tour   36      Zamba          6                4.5.
Fire Protection
study tour             18     U.S.A.        4         3       12
General Forestry Training
post graduate          15     U.S.A.        1        2.5      2.5
Eire          1        1.5      1.5
Congo         2                  '.5
Denmark       2        1.5       3
TOTAL       123                                     112
~.,.;_ 



N I OCR.)               ~~~FORESTRY PROJECT
w c,CM)                    PROJECT FUNDING/EXPENDITURE
TOTAL PROJECT                          Total     1980      1981     1982     t983     1984      1985     1986
FtJNDING
Grants - Federal Government           16677.2   4450.0   5419.9   1907.5   2714.6    790.2   1034.5    360.5
Anambra State Government     1102.7    461.3    380.0      56.6    204.8       0.0      0.0      0.0
Ogun State Government        6479.9    630.4   1981.8    392.6    171.8    749.8   1802.5    750.0
Ondo State Government        4328.7    865.0    650.0    200.0    200.0    292.7   1621.0    500.
stumpage - Salvage Logging
Ogun State Government          48.0       0.0      0.0     30.5       9.7      7.8      0.0      0.0
Ondo State Government         t606.8    140.6    934.9    221.2    165.8    106.3      38.0       0.0
Loans  -- IRD                         23492.3    363.6   3472.0   5361.3   5489.5   3877.3   2182.7   2745.9
Subtotal                    53734.6   6910.9  12838.6   8169.7   8956.2   5824.1   6678.7   4356.4
INCOME                                  772.5     31.8      56.8    118.7    269.0    118.2    178.0       0.0
TOTAL INFLOW                          54507.1   6942.7  12895.4   8288.4   9225.2   5942.3   6856.7   4356.4
EXPENDITURE
L4uildangs                            6074.5     63.5    946.0   2272.5    985.2   1156.3    460.5    190.5
Plant,Machinery,etc.                  8962.2    982.4   4485.7   2098.9    661.6    183.2    366.8    183.6
Roads                                  619.1       4.5    246.2    332.1      19.5     14.8      0.0      0.0
Oither
Salaries/Wages - Local              13567.9    321.8   1827.8   1980.3   2824.5   2796.8   2542.5   1274.2
Expatriate         3420.3    197.1    296.2    417.5    719.9    529.5    678.9    581.2 
Direct Plantation                   12340.5   1374.9   2346.7   3217.1   1696.3   1872.2   1211.3    622.0
Operating Expenses                   8095.3    408.4   1003.2   1364.0   1614.2   1490.2   1444.7    770.6
Tra ning                              224.2     10.1      18.3     17.4     15.9     33.4     82.4      46.7
Fellowships                           214.2      0.0       0.0     65.1     66.3      9.9      52.8     20.1
Lonsultancies                         271.1      0.0       7.5     17.1     64.0     60.8      38.1     83.6
Farm Deflicts/(Surplus)               327.4      0.0      83.5     59.4    102.9    -33.0      84.6     30.0
Subtotal                     54116.7   3362.7  11263.1  11841.4   8770.3   8114.1   6962.6   3802.5
WORKING CAPITAL
Cash,bank,Overdrafts                   268.6   3541.2   2221.5  -3933.6    121.6  -2029.2    424.1   -77.t0
Other                                  121.9     38.8   -589.2    380.6    333.3   -142.6   -530. 0    6b30.9   P
Subtotal                       390. 4   3580.')   1632.3  -3553.0    454.9  -2171.8   -105.9    5;5.9 9
TOTAL OUTFLOW                         54507.1   6942.7  12E45.4   8288.4   9225.2   5942.3   6856.7   4356.4



NIGERIA
N1000                   ~~~~~FORESTRY PROJECT
N'  .SUBPROJECT FUNDING/EXPENDITURE
ANAI4IRA STATE GOVERNMENT
MBANASA PLANTATION                    Total     1980      1981     1982     1983      1934     1985     1986
FUNDING
Grants - Federal Giovernment          1489.2    461.0    289.6    330.6    254.8      77.0      56.2     20.0)
Anambra State Government    1102.7    461.3    380.0      56.6    204.9       0.0      0.0      0.0
Loans - IWRD                          1325.7     82.3    396.1    376.6      94.6    369.3      16.83     0.0
Subtotal                     3917.6   1004.6   1065.7    763.8    544.2    446.3       73.0     20.0
INCOME                                   17.3      0.4      15.7      o.e      0.4      0.0       0.0      0.0
TOTAL INfLUW                           3934.9   1005.0   1081.4    764.6    544.6    446.3       73.0     20.0
EXPENDITURE
Buildings                              231.2              127.3    121.9    -18.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Plant,Machinery,etc                    810.6    300.9    366.8    139.8       3.1
Roads                                   53.7      4.5      49.2
Other
Salaries/Wages - Local               1800.0             359.4    438.8    395.3    321.5    190.0       95.0
Expatriate            14.9                                  14.9
Direct Plantation                    105.1    220.4    356.6    Z34.2       36.4     51.1       4.4      2.0
Other Operating                       380.1     51.5    113.9    138.4      76.3
Training                                0.0
Consultancty                            0.0
Farming Deficit/(Surplus)               0.0
Subtotal                     4295.6    577.3   1373.2   1173.1    508.0    372.6    194.4        97.0
Cash,Bank,CAPITAL ft-123.7    484.0   -300.3   -169.8    -12.9                         737     124         70
OtshernkOerra-237.0    -56.3                                8.5   -238.7     49.5     737 -2.           -70
Subtotal                      -361.7    427.7   -291.8   -408.5       36.6     73.7   -121.4    -77.0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                          3934.9   1005.0   1081.4    764.6    544.6    446.3       73.0     20.0



N16ERIA
N'0Oe)                           FORESTRY PROJECT
USUPROJECT FUNDING/EXPENDITURE
OBUN STATE GwOVERNMENT193                                                              9818598
0110 PLANTATION
FUNDILANTATONB                       Total      1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985     1986
FUNDING
Grants - Federal Government           5452.6   1200.0   1600.0    699.4   1070.7    442.0    270.0    170.5
Ogun State Government       6478.9    630.4   1981.8    392.6    171.8    749.8   1802.5    750.0
Stumpage - Salvage Logging              48.0       0.0      0.0     30.5      9.7       7.8
Loans  - IBRD                        1CK076. 0    144.0    767.4   2631.2   2727.0   1692.4   1053.0    861.0
Subtotal                    22055.5   1974.4   4349.2   3753.7   3979.2   3092.0   3125.5   1791.5
INCOME                                  372.6      3.3      25.8     36.2    210.7      36.0     60.6      0.0
raiAL INFLOW                          22428.1   1977.7   4-..  (n  3789.9   4189.9   3128.0   3186.1   1781.5
t XPKENDITURE
buiNldinTs                            14285       57.6    509 8    183.4    167.5    179.9    159.8    190.5
Plant,Machinery,etc                   3823.6    313.0   1756.8   1326.4    271.3       62.0     42.5     51.6
Roads                                  434.2              155.7    278.5
Other
Salaries,Wages - Local               3888.7    133.4    812.2    322.3    807.9    899.8    591.8    521.3
Enpatriate          1095.1     59.7    122.0    143.3    319.5    238.8    153.8       58.0
Direct Plantation                    6036.9    604.1   1082.2   1904.1    711.1    777.9    637.5    320.0
Other Uperating                      4816.2    148.6    477.0    701.7   1132.2    857.0    999.7    500.O
Training                                0.0
Consultancy                            12.3                         6.0      6.3
Farming Deficit/(Surplus)             225.7               -1.2     33.6     58.3      39.8     65.2     30 0
Subtotal                     21761.2   1316.4   4714.5   4879.3   3474.1   3055.2   2650.3   1671.4
4ORKING CAPITAL
Cash,Bank,Overdra4t                    189.7    582.2    176.5   -944.7    -95.4   -243.8    714.9        0.0
Other                                  477.2     79.1   -516.0   -144.7    811.2    316.6   -179.1    110.1
Subtotal                       666.9    661.3   -339.5  -1089.4    715.8      72.8    535.8    110.1
rOTAL OUTFLOW                         22428.1   1977.7   4375.0   3789.9   4189.9   3128.0   3186.1   1781.5



NIGSERA!
N' Ot),:,                         FORESTRY PROJECT
SUBPROJECT FUNDING/EXPENDITURE
ONDO STATE GOVERNMENT
oLIuA PLANTATION
FUNDING                              Total      1980     1981      1982     1983     1984     1985      1986
Srant5 - Federal Government           6157.0   1800.0   1833.9    6i4.8   1070.7    417.1    335.5       85.0
Ondo State Governmebnt      4328.7    865.0    650.0    200.0    200.0    292.7   1821.0    500.0
Stumpage - Salvage Logging            1606.8    140.6    934.9    221.2    165.8    106.3       38.0
Loans  - IBRD                         9966.4     71.0   2214.9   2149.4   2176.8   1515.0    593.4   1245.9
Subtotal                   22058.9   2876.6   5633.7   3195.4   3613.3   2331.1   2597.9   1830.9
INCOME                                  354.7     28.1      15.3     80.0     57.4     77.6      96.3      0.0
TOTAL INFLUW                          22413.6   2904.7   5649.0   3265.4   3670.7   2408.7   2684.2   1830.9
EXPENDITIIRE
Buildings                             3362.6      5.9    113.1   1755.4    546.9    710.8    230.5
Plant,Machinery,etc                   3902.0    298.8   2253.5    580.0    300.4       76.2    261.1    132.0
Roads                                  131.2               43.3     53.6     19.5      14.8
Other
Salaries/Wages - Local               5857.0    106.3    700.0    936.2   1069.8   1216.1   1237.5    592.1
Expatriate         1205.3      71.1     90.5    180.5    209.6    236.7    218.3    198.6
Direct Plantation                    5298.5    550.4    907.9    978.8    948.8   1043.2    569.4    300.0
Operating Expenditure                1772.4    149.3    2,28. 2    403.9    243.5    358.3    259.2    130.0
Trainfing                              47.5      10.1     12.6      6.8      5.9       7.5      4.6
Consultancy                             0*0
Farming Deficit/(Surplus)             101.7               84.7     25.8     44.6    -72.8      19.4
Subtotal                    21678.2   1191.9   4433.8   4921.0   3388.0  3590.8   2800.0   1352.7
WURKING CAPITAL
Cash,Bank,Overdraft                    -43.5   1652.8   1220.8  -2473.4    597.8   -840.4   -201.1        0.0  0
Other                                  778.9     60.0      -5.6    817.8   -315.1   -341.7      85.3    478.2  Z
Subtotal                       735.4   1712.8   1215.2  -1655.6    282.7  -1182.1   -115.8    478.2  *
TOTAL OUTFLOW                         22413.6   2904.7   5649.0   3265.4   3670.7   2408.7   2684.2   1830.9  v



NIGERIA
N'OQts)O                          FORESTRY PROJECT
SUBPROJECT FUNDING/EXPENDITURE
NIGERIAN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
FORMEU
Total     1980      1991     1982      1983     1984      1995     1986
FUNDING
Grants - Federal Government           3578.4    989.0   1696.4    262.7    318.4   -145.9    372.8         85.0
Loans  - I1RD                         2124.2      66.3     93.6    204.1    501.1    100.6    519.5    639.0
Subtotal                      5702.6   1055.3   1790.0    466.8    919.5    -45.3    992.3    724.0
INCOME - Other                           27.9                          1.7      0.5       4.6     21.1      0.0
TOTAL INFLOW                           5730.5   1055.3   1790.0    468.5    820.0    -40.7    913.4    724.0
EXPENDITIIRE
EBuildings                            1052.2              195.8    231.9    2aa a    265.6       70.
Plant,Machinery,etc.                   426.0      69.7    108.6      52.7               4 8  45:0  633
Other                                      .
Salaries - Local                     2022.2      82.1    156.2    283.0    552.5    359.4    523.2        65.8
Expatriate                1105.0     66.3      83.7     93.7    175.9      54.0    306.8    324.6
Operating E.-penses                  1126.6      59.0    184.1    120.0    1j2.2    274.9    185.8    140.6
Training Center                       176.7                5.7      10.6     10.0      25.9     77.8      46.7
fellowships                           214.2                         65.1     66.3       9.9     52.9      20.1
Consultancies                         258.8                 7.5     11.1     57.7      60.8     38.1      83.6
Subtotal                      6381.7    277.1    741.6    868.0   1400.2   1095.5   1317.9    681.4
WORK ING CAPITAL
Cash,bai&.Overdrafts                   246.1    822.2   1124.5   -345.7   -367.9  -1018.7        31.7       0.0
Other                                 --897.3    -44.0    -76.1    -53.8   -212.3   -117.5   -436.2        42.6
Subtotal                      -&51.2    778.2   1048.4   -399.5   -580.2  -1136.2   -404.5        42.6   w
lUTAL OUlFLOW                          5730.5   1055.3   1790.0    468.5    820.0    -40.7    913.4    724.0
*                    1~~~~~I



- 36 -
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT                TABLE 7A
FUNDING
SAR
ESTIMATE       ACTUAL
NAIRA TERMS                           N'000   %    N'000    P
IBRD Loan                             20100  39    22312   42
FGN Grant                             16300  32    16677   32
ANSG Grant                             1300   3      1103    2
OSG - Grant                           6900  13      6479 ) 12
Salvage Stumpage                                48 )
ONSG - Grant                           6900  13      4329 ) 12
Salvage Stumpage                              1607 )
TOTAL                          5l500 100    52555  100
DOLLAR TERMS(Of+icial Exchange rates) $'000  %    $*000    Z
IBRD Loan                             31000  39    31000   40
FGN Grant                             25100  32    26145   34
ANSG Grant                             2000   3      1830    3
OS6   - Grant                        10600  13      9043 ) 12
Salvage Stumpage                                69 )
ONSG - Grant                          10600  13      5973 )12
Salvage Stumpage                             2519 )
TOTAL                          79300 100    76579  100



NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROECT
FUND ING
TOTAL      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      196
IBRD Loan                             23492.3    363.6   3472.0   5361.3   5489.5   3877.3   2182.7   2745.9
FGN Grant                             16677.2   4450.0   5419.9   1907.5   2714.6    790.2   1034.5    360.5
ANS3 Grant                             1102.7    461.3    38o.0       56.6    204.8       0.0      0.0       0.0
OGSS Grant                             6478.9    630.4   1981.8    392.6    171.8    749.8   1802.5    750.0
Salvage Stumpage                    48.0      0.0       0.0     30.5       9.7      7.8       0.0      0.0
ONSB Grant                             4328.7    865.0    650.0    200.0    200.0    292.7   1621.0    500.0
Salvage Stumpage                  1606.8    140.6    934.9    221.2    165.8    106.3        39.0      0.0
TOTAL                                 53734.6   6910.9  12838.6   8169.7   8956.2   5824.1   6678.7   4356.4
OLLARS'000
TOTAL      1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986
IRD Loan                             31000.0    682.0   5496.0   7952.0   7415.0   5279.0   2352.0   1824.0
FBN Grant                             26144.7   8143.5   8934.4   2823.1   3746.1   1035.2   1158.6    403.8
ANSO Grant                             1930.0    844.2    619.4       83.8    282.8       0.0      0.0       0.0
UGSG Grant                             9043.1   1I53.6   3230.3    581.0    237.1    982.2   2018.8    840.0
Salvage Stumpage                    68.7      0.0       0.0     45.1      13.4      10.2      0.0       0.0
ONSO Grant                             5973.4   1583.0   1059.5    296.0    276.0    393.4   1815.5    560.0
Salvage Stumpage                  2519.2    257.3   1523.9    327.4    228.8    139.3        42.6      0.0
rOTAL                                 76579.2  12663.6  20763.6  12108.4  12199.0   7829.3   7387,5   3627.8



- 38 -
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT                    TABLE c
FOREION/LOCAL COST FUJNDING
TOTAL     FOREIGN  LOCAL   Forcian
N ' o0i,    N. I 000    N *:o
EXPEND I TURE
Bui ldings                            6074.5   1822.4   4252.2  330
Plant,Machinery,etc.                  8962 . 2   7617.9   1344.3   85
Roads                                  619.1    309.6   3(9.6   50
Other
Salaries/Wages - Local              13567.9            13567.9    -
Expatriate         3420. 3   3078.3   342.0   10  /1
Direct Plantation                   12340.5            12340.5    -
Operating Expenses                   8095.3  .3238.1   4857.2   40
Training                              224.2     44.8    179.4  24
Fllowships                           214.2    214.2            100
Consultancies                         271.1    162.7    108.4   60
Farm Deficits/(Surplus)               327.4     65.5    261.9   20
Working Capital less Income           -382.1             -38e2.1    -
TOTAL                                53734.6  16553.3  37181.3
FUNDING
IBRD                                23492.3  14784.4   8707.9
Federal/State Governments           30242.3   1768.9  28473.4
TOTAL                                53734.6  16553.3  37181.3
SAR ESTIMATE
IBRD                                20130.0  20130.0
Federal/State Governments           31370.5            31370.5
TOTAL                                51500.5  20130.0  31370.5
1/ A locally paid element of salary was introduced
part way through the project



FIIII. IIUMt    . 3*  U EETUR
190 TO  19|1 TO 19%1 T lo    T 20U1 TO 201   t a     WtO  201 TO
mm"AS ft*IhUI   ANA15RA STATR  Total     19"                 393 l2  193    i         im      1t%      19t       MT   2190    210   2OlI   2015            MO 
gPojlKt Cattl                     -3J.9  -le0LO -l01l.4  -741.6  -50.6  -W.3    -71.0   -20.0
IbtPreiKt CoStS                  -131.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      *.0     0.0      *.0   -2 .0   -30.0   -3O.O   -30.0   -24.0   -U3.0
CA..                              4657.3     0.4    I5.?      0.3      0.4     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   256   2.         ,964.0
CUR              354N             571.4  104.4  106.7  -73.   -S44.2  -4443   -73.0   -20.0   -24,0  -30.0   -30.0   226.0  237                 971.0
m  PUITATISH - USJ STATE
Proei   cat t$t                  -n2112.1 -)M.? -41M.0 -3M8.9 -41E9t9 -3120.0 -31Eb.I -17Eil.5
Prot hSKt C05t9                   -45".       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   -00.0  -713.0  -742.0  -718.0  -152.0  -43.0  -35.0
lIKOe    *taoa I                 143523.3  3 .3    25.0    36.2   210.7    36.0    60.6          0.0  2906.2 3773.0 20812.0 36191.4 21533.4 314.0
CAS FLO  - Option a            121500.  -t974.4  -4349.2  -3753.? -397.2  -3092.0  -3125.5  -22.3.   2014.2 3704.0 28164.0 37739.4 209153.4 33240.3
in 2             12.1
[Kan O p~tioin3                   9523.1      3.3    25.0    36.2   210.       3.0      6.       00       0.      0.0  304.0  2379.1 5332.4         0.0
CMSN FLO9 - Option 3              572  -3753.7 -3979.2  309 0325.  -2211°.5  -7.0  -.0  7313.  217.7  57352.4                                      0.
11U11 4                                                                     3.3
OLUIIA lRlMA! IIO - 01tS STATE
Proect Costs                     -22413.4 -29. 7 -5644.0  -326.4  -3670.? -2406.?  -2U04.2 -1830.9
Pot Prosjt   ts                   -30S8.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   250.0  -613.0  -4.o  -413.0  -417.0  -56.0  -313.0
le-*Ue   l Optioo 1113192.0    28.1    15.3    30.0    57.4    77.4    9.3                       0.   2135.  29777.0  22021.1  293M .  10.4 34196.2
CM  FUI - Opton 1               07110.4 -2174.6  -f33.1  -3135.4 -3413.3 -23.1  -2517.  -1580.9  1522.3  23171.0  21406.  2949.6  15844.6  13373.2
1332I            10.0
IlK.. - Option 3                  72604.1    20.1    15.3    0.0    57.4    77.6    9.3          0.0      0.0     0.0  41394  2912.1  4419.1        0.0
tS FLO  - Option 3                47437.5  -2974.6  -53.7  -3105.4 -313.3  -2=1.1  -2587.9  -1530.9  -413.0  -60.   5524.  2125.1  443.0            0.0
IRt               5.1
FUll  - FIIEIIK  W01139I
PrjeKt tCots                      -5730.5  -1055.3 -790.0  -6.5  -920.0         0.7  -913.4  -724.0
Incmn                                27.9     0.0      0.0     1.7      0.5     4.4    21.1      0.0
CMS RFO                         -5702.  -105.3  -1790.0   ILB  -919.5    45.3   -923   -24.0
MOTAL fOl
Projet Costs                     -54507.1  -4942.7 -1205.4  -8233.4  9225.2  -594.3 -105.7  -4356.4       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Pot Projet Cots                   -1314.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  -250.0  -1425.0  -373.0 -1393.0  -139.0  -1260.0  -711.0
lxen - Option 1                  26U00.5    31.0    54.8   113.7   269.0   113.2   118.0         0.0   440.0  66.O  5093A4.0  634.0  403.  34794.0
C f FLl - Optio  1             204079.4 -4910.9 -123.4 -014.7  -0.2  -462.1 3-67.7  -440   3515.0 4102.0 4953.0 U4 .0  39174.0   05.0                                i
3332                9.           2493.5    31.8    56.8  131.7   269.0   113.2   178.0           0.o      0.0     0.0 3380.0 3756.0 81113.0  554.0  423"0.0
CASH flti- lllo 2              2357P2.4  -910.9 -_12833.6 -6169.1  -3 .2  -5924.1 -47.7  -440.4  -1425.0  -1373.0 32409.0 937.0 3051.0 54370.0 41914.0
ft -toS tim 3                    172527.1    31.9    54.0   139.7   269.0   1132    1737.0       0.0      0.0     0.0  1420.      137.3 302.2   t40 10
M   FL    - Otim3          110204.0 -6910.9  -d8.6 -19.1  -3154.2  -5824.1  -6470.7  -4406.4 -1425.0 -1378.0  32309.4 49133.  103372.2  1273.0
OPilUNS I - KILL No IIVESTIS COUEIUs 399
2  HILL CIE       199 IUT? IOVESlTII C°   C  1M                                    POST EOCI C0SiO YAV  W3H OPTIOTI
3 - KILL IS CAIICELEin S3   .     An fUELUOID  PUCE0



~~~~~~~391to 3v Mt191 to 3196   2001l to RUSto 2013 to
total    1990    1181    1962    113    194    115    191           119     1M5    200    2W         31#    N15
CASN IWLtOM
feral Govermsgot Bart              1419.2   461.0   219.    330.6   Z54.0    n.o    16.2    20.0
hlgmdisg* gremt - 1I9I Lto        1325.1    12.3   31.1   376.6    84.6   369.3   tU.           0.0
sdtotal                    2914.9   533    65.7   701.2   339.4   446.3         3.0    20.0
I ro                              VA5.3      0.4    15.1      0.6      0.1     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   211.0  20.0  1164,0
tOtAl IIFL                        6672.2    L37    701.4   706O    339.3   44.3    73.0    20.0         0.0      0.0     0.0   2560  24.0  1164.0
amEl OUXfAS
Prc     a    ot mK  Casn.            9.9   ms.0  1061.4   76A4.   544.6   446.3    73.0    20.0                 3.      30.50   30.0    24.0      7.0
and Porjt Project          2460.42X0  a1      45.6    64.4    66.4    92.2   104.6   193.3  2712.0  406    33363   1632          0.°0   0
TOtAt 05lt9                       1640.3  1040.1  1127.0   219.0   613.0   533.5   177.6   213.3  2806.0  4131.0  336.3  162.2    24.0            7.0
NEI CANl FLU                      -167.9  -496.4  -425.6  -123.0  -273.2   -12.2  -104.6  -193.3 -2306.0  -0116.0 -3366.3 -1406.2  2376.   1111.0
cUul.E CASH FLOW                           -49 .4  -122.1 -1043.0 -13g  .  -3403.4 -151.1 -1706.3 -4512.3  9641.3 -12014.6 -13420.9 -110.9 -17.9
IIR  STATE SOIUER
fedral  rant                      5452.  1206.0  1600.0   699.4  1070.7   442.0   270.0   170.5
haleadiag eAbbot - I1 Loun    10076.0   144.0   767.4  231.2  2727.0  I32.4  1015.0   361.0
Stuepag-Ualwa  Loqgim9           41.0     0.0     0.0    30.5      9.7      7.      00      00
BSutota     n             15576.6  1314.0  27.4  3361.1          4  2342.2  I23.   101.5 
Incoe                            141523.3    3.3    25.8    36.2   210.7       6.0    60.6      0.0  204.2  37733.0  2912.3 331.4 21534  12.3
TOTAL 1NFLOW                     36PA". 9  1347.3  2393.2  3397.3  401L1   2311.2  1363.6  10;1.5  2104.2 37783.0 21912.0 36491.4 21533    16625.
Co ODIFLOU
Projet .d  ost Prjectt Costs      223.3  1977.7  4375.0  3769.9  411.9  3S121.0  3166.1  2201.5   M11.0   742.0   743.0            752.0   6.0    M.
-tk srviciag                    U69.5    5.6    90.7   m.4   49.o  1300.2  1539.1  2791.7  2212.9    4    116064                 0.0      0.0     0.0
TOTAL IOUIFLWS                   93199.6  2037.3  4465.7  4062.3  46.9  442.2  4745.8  5013.2 2500.9 252.0  12417.4   112.0   630.0   35.0
NE  Ca   Nm                      10101.3  -610.0  -2072 5  -5.0  -670.6  -20.0  -3322.2 -40S1.7 -22196.7  12101.0  164.  37.4 2061S3.  1140.               *
CWWITIWE C   Km                            -690.0  -2762.5 -3447.6 -411.3 -6168.3  -94.5 -13.2 -3572.3 -2327.3  -6114 31007.1 51360.4   0103.3
BOOM  MU  ML WfUIU 113190*A3 NIIES3    OF FlE  PL0NTAiIONS IEEDIATELY



" °°°                                        tl~~~~~~~~~~~cSHnFL
I9 71   11TOm0 1991O 20T1 2T00 TO 2010 TO
Total    1980    1961    192    1963        94    1985    19         t990    1M       2000    200S    2010    2015
OM10 STATE UVERIIII
CAM IWFLU
Federal Brat                       bS57.0  1301.0  133.9   414.3  1,10.7   417.)   335.5    35.0
olesidiog Arsant - st-j Loun       9.4    71.0  2214.9  2149.4  2171.8  1515.0   593.4  124.9
Stuape - UhIw4e tLogging           1601.   140.    94.9   221.2   115.3   101.3    36.0          0.0
Subttl                    11730.2  2011.1  4903.7  2935.4  3413.3  203.4   91.9  1330.9
lnco                             113192.0    26.1    15.3    10.0    51.4    77.        91.3     0.0  2135.8 2377.0  22021.1  23M.1  1640.  14181.2
TOTAL CASH IFtL                  130922.2  2039.7  499.0  3065.4  3470.7  2111.0  1063.2  1330.9  2135.8 27M.0  22021.1  2M1.1 I00.6 1410.2
CAN WIfFLE
Pr Kt and Post ProeKt Costs       25481.6  2904.7  564.0  3265.4  3170.7  240.1  2664.2  1530.9    13.0  0t6.0   113.0   117.0  15.O   313.0
bt Sarn g                         14184.7    23.6    233.2   371.2   517.3  1249.7  1438.2   2t4.9  23112.1  23424.3  11139.1       o.0     0.0      0.0
TOTAL CASH WTFLOI                 8911.3  2933.5  5632.2  34.6  4210.0   358.4  4122.4  4245.7  2372.1  24030.9  11M52.1   617.0   551.0   313.0
MET CASH FLO1                     4125.9  -893.3  -833.2  -576.2  -717.3  -1542.4  -3059.2 -2914.8 -21539.8  4714.2  0U29.1 28699.1  13144.6  1373.2
CUIIIUITIVE CASN FLU                       -693.3  -177.9 -2353.2  -3070.5  -4612.9 -7672.0 -10l59 -32171.7 -27430.5 -17141.4  11533.1  2732.3  4125.9
FEUDEAL 6O!UENMT
CASH INFLOW
13I0 Lon                          23492.3   363.6  3472.0  5311.3  5469.5  3M?.$  2182.7  2745.9
IKen                                 27.9     0.0      0.0      1.7     0.5      4.6    21.1      0.0
TOIAL INFLOI                      23520.2   363.   3472.0  5313.0  s50    366i.9  g01.0  2745.9
CA  OIFLOIS
Fdral krnts                       13093.8  341.0  3723.5  164.9  2396.2   936.1    11.7   275.5
olboding Aer     ts - I3 Loian   21368.1  231.3  337.84  5157.2  493.4  3776.7  16U.2  210.9
0@Dt lrvacing - lt                10315.7    12.0  -125.3  -243.9  -209.8   -33.6    50.0   43.6  6140.5  5139.2   015.2 -162.2
Fd1al Exauitse                     5730.5  1055.3  1790.0   48.5   320.0   -40.7   913.4   724.0
TOTAL  UTFLO                      50513.1  4825.6  6711.6  7026.6  74.8  4133.5  3233.3  350.0  6100.5  51)3.2   115.2 -1632.2
NE  OUTFLO                       -292.9  -4462.0  -24.6 -113.6  -2424.3  -75.  -1084.5  -9.1  -6140.5 -5139.2  -31.2  16.2
CUINWIVE OUlFlO                            -4412.0  -975.6 -11420.2 -13845.0 -1401.1 -U56.1 -1610.2 -22120.7 -271.9 -2135.1 -2412.9
LAUD         NIIIL OIEIN IN 199 AND NAMEINS OF PRECT ftAIINU    S IIHAlTELI



lroooFBi    INJC
3967 To 399110  19  TN  200110  200 t1 2"0t t3 2011 T0
ECINDIIC CUTS                     Total    IS90    ISII6     362    IO93    ISI    I05   I36           19o     I       2000    205    2010    2015    2020
hiliops                           10791.3   145.4    34.1  4232.1   168.5  1751.3 S     1.7   310.1
Plt t Richimerytc                 21723.4  2101.  ik1M.8  48110.?  1511.1   44.3  1001.4   726.7
oas                                3390.5    10.1      A.3   U3.5    35.5    21.1        0.0      0.0
blarin114n,etc -   al             580.9   152.S   925.1  1045.0  1375.4  1197.7   674.0   312.9
Expatriate    5791.9   515.9   602.2  M75.9  1341.   1035.   33.   1043.4
Direct Plao  Bq 435.0  1333.5  3931.3  2499.0  3348.7  1035.4   570.9   223.1
Otlwr Op rting                   I    .313.7  1151.7  2341.9  29M.   239.7  1677.7  1725.1   770.
lrsieir                            324.1    28.5    42.7    37.7    28.0    42.1          4    41.7
Fell wips                           1.3      0.0      0.0    33.6    30.9       4.0    11.6      4.5
Cmasult nin                        247.0      0.0    10.0    23.7    74.9    55.2    30.3    52.1
Fas kuftcit/(Surplusl              254.2      0.0    41.3    51.2   108.4   -11.1       9.5    .1.4
subtotal                  68393.9  5742.4  I . I3  937.9  9974.2  7107.9  6243.4  3557.0
Post Project Costs                103U.2       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   275.0  357.5  1515.6  130.   1539          3 131.0  1291.4   X13.5
1013L ECISIIIIC COST              71778.0  5742.4  162.1  31937.9  9974.2  7107.9  613.4  3332.0  1517.5  1515.3  3530.   1533.I  13.0  1291.4  1231.5
ECItic COSTS                      77240.2  5742.4 1829..1 I37.9  9974.2  7107.9  1243.4  3332.0  3517.5   551.3  13530.1  133.9  1331.0  103.1
COMIKC IN311K                    582475.5    31.6    51.6   116.7   29.O   338.2   178.0          0.0  10U0.0 I43360.0 10.0 1412L.0  9132.0 7042.0
NEI ECOM    IIIC IT1             10S235.3 -5710.6 -17M.3 -36119.2  -975.2  -9W.7  -6015.4  -3332.0  *072.5 141344.2 13173.9 145.  964.0  7100.9
Optics 1-133 3l 13.7
EClESIC cOStS                     78521.7  5742.4  16829.1 31937.9  9974.2  tl07.9  6243.4  3332.0  1517.5  153I5 .3         1  I5D 153.9  13.0  2j291.4  1025.2
Etl33ifl1C IIICOIIE              153713.5    31.8    5S.9   110.7   219.0   333.2   178.0         0.0     0.0       .  72300 .0 33.0300  1 37.0  920
N  ECIDIC 31F11                  575241.3 -5710.1 -1372.3 -U139.2  -970.2 -169.7  -1 . 4 -3332.0  -1517.5 -IS15.L  73219.9 13541.1 17"97.0 12243.  922.3
ptios 2 -1n11       9.7
1CEII0 C ESTi                      77240.2  5742.4  129.1  16937.9  974.2  7107.9  1243.4  332.0  1511.5  1535.3             d   356.9   1331.0  IO33l
ECtlIC 331111                    196733.5    31.8    56.3    IL.7   269.0   31U.2   178.0        0.0      0.0      0.0 57441.0 2U013.0 4412t.0  U37.0
ET EC CIIIIICll                 12143.3  -5710.1 -18M.3 -16B39.2  -9705.2  -M.7  -10.4 -332.0  -1517.5  -IS1.  561359 205279.1 42374.0  7334.
Uptfzn 3 - IMR      10.5
OPlIS   - Illu SILL III        CES MIII   IMT 13N990
2 SILL       Is 11119901M13331119399                                         FMp FINUCT cm        V isv in  WTI1
3 NILL 35 CIIIEIC  M AND S UL S31 FURi=I 13DOC10



FORESTYPRI fClU
HIuvESTIU 9CLHUUIES
UlIOlDO   htl  I'11m2 IPtitEI  3                                                                                         All
IIARVESiIW                          IUES111                             ROMIG                                 UARVTINEStiU
Rotatina                       Rbtation
let      24d      3rd               lit      281d                        let      2nd                      pine     focal  t$
vm                       VUIIE VlUME   VnLUIIE   vlue        VIIE   VLME                          WtlE   WiLI              E      uu             VOL
'0ooo    'o00     '13 '0            '000113  '001 'OO003   ' 00013                                            '000113  'o0013
1992                         305
1993                         420
1994
1SV3                ~~~~~535
1994                         650
19S7                         650
55°
1999                         515      14                                                               133
199                                   264                         650                                  in
2000                                  365                         U0                                   332
2001                                 4US                          650                                  355
2002                                  565                         650                                  305
2003                                  5         5                450                                  200
2004                                  565                         650                                  740      69
2005                                  443                         450                                           713                           8
202                                            132                4         10                                 1243
2007                                           211                450                                          1349                          41
200                                            292                450                                          1157
2009                                           372                450                                           740                          27
2010                                           452                453                                           532                                    7
2011                                           452                         412
2012                                           452                         412                                                                        37
2013                                           35                          412
2014                                                                       412                                                                        25
2015                                                                       412
2014                                                                       412
2017                                                                       412
2010                                                                       412
2019                                                                       412
t1t0L HRESt       3915      3402     2721               7603     3709                       1703     4470                          76       69
ASSUNP7011                                    ASUIWlIOS                            I SSUf1IOIS                               ASWtlO S 
Harvnted at 10 ywaslaverape)                  Harvest at 22 yeasltaverge           353 of standig vylma  - 100.3 per ha   Nma annul incremet 20.3 pe  ba
Wa  autnil incrmnt  23. per ba                ln  annIa  inreMent 201d per ha 2nd cut - at 25 years                         Pine - clear cut at 30 yas
2nd Notation                                  2nd Rotation                          Elma  fell - 390.3 per ha                 lean annual incremet  10.3  arW lia
Hbrested at 3 ywes                            Hrnvested at 10 yearslaverage)
lean annul inreent  25n3 per ha                lean  nua  increment 20h3 pat ha UE -  A1L06S 60S                            USE - SAt06
3rd Rotation                                                                             FUEE  40
areted at   years                            USE -                                      Fllfh      0
Nean annual increment 20.3 pe ha
USE - PULPWOOD



- 45 -                          Annex 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Ln. 1679-UNI)
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RETURNS
Appraisal
1.        The SAR calculated only the economic return on the Omo and Oluwa
Plantation and envisaged the following scenario:
(a) the Iwopin Mill would be completed in the early 1980;
(b) levels of stumpage - 112.7 ($15.6) per ms for pulpwood and N30
($36.9) per m9 for sawlogs - were based on an import parity
basis;
(c) the harvesting of pulpwood by thinning at seven years and of
pulpwood and sawlogs at 15 years would take place; and
(d) planting would continue at the rate of 3000 ha per annum in a
follow on project until year 15.
Using these assumption it gave an economic rate of return of 13.4 percent
over a 30 year period.
2.        These assumptions cannot be used in reassessing either the
economic or financial returns. The mill did not open and no definite date
of opening is yet known. The economic viabil..ty of the mill is in doubt.
3.        The SAR also included income from salvage logging as income to
the Project, although deducting from it the value of land (income per ha
cleared - (30 ms at N25) - 3500). This assumes that the tree in the
natural forest at stump has no value. The correct interpretation should be
that the natural forest is an economic alternative to the plantation use,
even if it does render lower returns, and income from the alternative use
cannot be included in the economic income of the plantations. Excluding
salvage logging income brings the anticipated economic rate of return down
to 11.6 percent.
Re-evaluation
4.        The mill situation currently is less certain than that in 1978,
it is therefore impossible to predict realistic harvesting schedules.
Dependant on the time of opening there might be some opportunity to produce
sawlogs from either the Project or pre-Project Plantations, in conjunction
with pulpwood, however this has not been considered and the following
models may therefore be considered conservative. The financial IRR and the
economic rate of return have therefore been calculated using a number of
options. They are:



- 46 -                   Annex I
Page 2
1. That the mill opens in 1990 and the project Plantations are
used immediately.
2. That the mill opens in 1990 but Project Plantations are not
harvested until 1999.
3. That the mill does not open and the plantations are used for
sawlogs and fuelwood.
5.        Throughout, the Mbanasa Plantation is assumed to be harvested for
sawlogs.
Financial Returns (see Table 9)
6.        To calculate the financial returns it has been assumed that the
states will successfully negotiate N26 per m3 price they are currently
seeking for pulpwood. Agreements have been reached for the Itu and Jebba
Mills to buy pulpwood at N6 and N10 ins respectively. Sawlog prices have
been assumed to be N32 ms which is a derived stumpage price from current
levels of sawnwood prices.
7.        The financial IRR's of the project and sub-projects are then:
Option 1       Option 2        Option 3
Mbanasa Plantation (Anambra)      1.6 2          1.6 S          1.6 2
Omo Plantation (Ogun)            12.1 %         8.9 %           6.3 Z
Oluwa Plantation (Ondo)          10.0 %         7.4 %           5.1 %
Total Project           9.6 X         7.1 z           4.9 Z
8.        Merely to service the IBRD loan at the new SFEK exchange rates
and achieve 10% return on funds provided by Federal and State Governments
requires stumpages for pulpwood and sawlogs of N52($13) and N170($42),
respectively.
9.        The financial results have been tested for sensitivity to changes
in post project costs, non-attainment of anticipated stumpage rates, delays
in harvesting (e.g., due to delayed opening of the Iwopin Mill or a change
of harvesting policy). The results were:
Change in IRR
Post project costs:     20% increase             - 0.12
20X decrease            + 0.1X
Stumpage rates: pulpwood:  202 increase          + 1.4%
: reduction to N1I      - 6.5Z
sawlogs:  20% increase          + 0.82
Delay in harvesting:  Pulpwood:  5 years delay  - 1.4%



_47 -                      Annex I
Page 3
10.       Clearly stumpage rates and delays in harvesting are the more
important factors. Future maintenance costs must be controlled but do not
have great effect on the financial IRR. The sensitivity of the IRR to
stumpage increases gives some idea of the magnitude of increase required in
current levels of pulpwood and sawlog stumpage to achieve reasonable levels
of financial return. Delays in harvesting erode already small returns and,
along with the difference in returns for pulpwood and savlogs, points to
the need for a carefully planned harvesting policy.
11.       Economic Rate of Return (see Table 10).  The economic rate of
return in the SAR was calculated based upon the anticipated results of the
Omo and Oluva Plantations. Although the institutional strengthening
aspects of the Project cannot be measured in economic terms, as much of
this work impacted on the development of the three plantations it was felt
appropriate to calculate an economic rate of return for the whole project.
Using the same options as those in the financial analysis, the economic
rates of return are:
Option 1 (pulpwood) 13.7%
2 (pulpwood)   9.7%
3 (sawlogs)   10.6%
12.       This analysis is based on the economic cost at 1986 prices.
Foreign exchange costs have been converted at the assessed shadow foreign
exchange rate for the year and an international inflation rate applied.
Local costs have been converted to border prices and, where applicable.
adjusted for internal inflation rates.
13.       The stumpage rate for pulpwood used in the SAR N12.7 ($15.6) mJ
was an import parity price calculated on the basis of supplies to an
economically viable mill. It is questionable whether this can still be
used and therefore a stumpage of N56m0 ($14) , slightly reduced in dollar
terms but significantly increased in naira terms representing the
depreciation of the naira against the dollar, has been used. This compares
with world FOB values of between $19 and $30ms. Export is a possible
alternative use of the resource but a detailed study of markets and
harvesting costs would be needed to establish whether Nigeria could enter
this market. Nevertheless, it is probably more realistic to take this
reduced value as it equates, proportionately, with the latest known import
prices of the Ivopin mills planned output, writing and printing paper
(N1,440 MT), as did the stumpage value to anticipated product price used in
original calculations showing the mill to be financially viable.
15.       The sawlog value used in the calculation, N135 ($34) per m3, is
derived from FOB values of similar sawn timber ex West African ports.
16.       As a comparison with the original SAR estimate of an economic
rate of return on the Oluwa and Omo Plantations alone of 13.4% (11.6
percent adjusted for salvage logging) the Project bas shown that on a
pulpwood rotation these plantations can achieve an economic rate of return
as high as 15.3Z.



COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER       - 49                     ATTACMENT
FORESTRY MANAGEMENT. EVALUUWIN AND CO-ORDINATING UNIT
(LD   SAKPRJCT)
Federal Ministry of Agricultuw, Water
Resources & Rural Developmert,
Telephone: (022) 411249                              Federal Depaitmnt of Forestr.
(022) 411209                                          P. M. S. 5040,
Telex: 31137 FORMECU NG.                                      Ibadan, Nigeria.
Ref No. .FflRMEECU.JJF.LJ.XL11 6                      15ith MaY ..........,1989
Mr. Graham Donaldson,
Chief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington D.C. 20433,
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
Re: Forestry Plantatioii Project (Loan 1679 UNI)
Project Completion Report
Thanks so much for your letter and the Project Completion Report
(PCR). I am indeed very sorry that our comments could not be
sent before 19th April, 1989 as requested. This has been due to
my prolonged visits outside Ibadan and delay by other Government
and Project Officials who were requested to comment on the Report.
The Report highlighted the success and drawbacks in the execution
of the Project. The Forestry I Project is one of the best ever
executed Forestry Projects in the country.
The Report is concise. However, I shall request your deletion
of two ambigous statements which may discredit the Report since
they are not true:
Par. 1.07 (from line 4) - "This created some initial friction
within F.D.F. but this settled down and co-operation between the
two Units became good". I was the Co-Manager of the FAO Project
in 1979/80 and the Head of FORMEU as from 1981. Even though there
were teething problems in the take-off of the Forestry I Project,
as is usually the case in all new Projects, there was no friction
of note between the two complimentary Units to warrant emphasis
in a national/international Report such as the PCR.
Par. 1.07 (from bottom line 9) - "This was mainly done by the
expatriate monitoring and evaluation officer, and it was somehow
difficult to make the Nigerian monitoring staff of FORMEU
interested personally undertaking the task". I was Head FORMEU
and find this statement most misleading and discredit to some
counterparts to the expatriate officer who worked quite hard to
make the monitoring a success. Our PCR should not appear to be
discrediting her devoted staff, some of whom are now monitoring
the Forestry II Project.



- 50 -
With the comments I must again apologise for replying late.
We shall be grateful if you send us some 40 copies of the fair
PCR for distribution to some interested Organisations.
Yours sincerely,
Dr. L. I. Umeh
Head FORMECU.



MOD 13785
0 io 7 C N  I G E R                                                                                               CH CAD
| N  I G  E R / 5                                                                                                                                  \\ .      \>
NIGER  /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                                      0     R     /
1SURK1NAY         XKtmb                                         CFtR
FASO 
t  X~~~~~~~~~~~u    Fusnh"gII£ 
/                 N
_/W           _ f _ * _ _ _ * > lt d S S l _ _   I  l  t   ^ - f . _ , , _ _ _ - - -   _ _ _ < b   t _ '1 1 t t s s s   Y   9   M t L E
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)l
BENIc N                                                                                                                                                            CoaCA
Peete Novc~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~  LAGOS  -~~Nore
______________________________          6_  4                                   .*19                                       r"
0           093
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR
~                                                                                                    0        50       tOO       150      20
~~~~~~~                 S~~~~~~~~~Om..nILE
~~  U                                            C                         IC                        I?                        IC~~Ewt
FORESTRY PLANTATION PRMJRCT98



