Document of
The World Bank 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-2487-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
March 14, 1979
This document ha a restrited distributI  nd may be used by recipeus ody In the performanct df
their oclal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Dank autrization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiaries:       Federal Republic of Nigeria; Ondo State, Ogun State,
and Anambra State of Nigeria.
Amount:              US$31 million, equivalent.
Terms:               Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Federal Government would onlend US$13.4 million to
each Ondo State and Ogun State on the same terms as the
Bank loan and US$2.2 million to Anambra State on terms
to be determined. The Federal Government would carry the
exchange risk.
Project              The project would assist in reversing the present decline
Description:        of Nigeria's forestry sector through an expansion of its
national plantation development program and strengthening
of its forestry management and planning capabilities at
both state and federal levels. The project would estab-
lish 22,600 ha of state-owned commercial Gmelina plantations
in Ondo and Ogun States and 1,600 ha of Pine and Eucalyptus
trials in Anambra State, and strengthen the state and
federal forestry services. It would cover five years of a
long-term plantation development program, and would
increase roundwood production for utility-grade timber;
provide short-fiber pulpwood for the pulp and paper
industry; assess the viability of supplying locally-grown
long-fiber pulpwood to the pulp and paper industry;
improve forest plantation management and planning; improve
the living and working conditions for an additional about
1,500 forestry workers and their families, and increase
food production in the rural areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                 Total      Local      Foreign
-------US$ Millions--------
Buildings & Social Services    11.2         6.3        5.0
Land Clearing                    16.0       6.2        9.8
Road Construction                 7.6       3.7        3.9
Plantations                       8.9       7.9        1.0
Crop Development                  1.0       0.6        0.4
Management & Support Services   9.5         4.0        5.4
Total Base Costs                 54.3      28.7       25.6
Physical Contingencies            2.7       1.4        1.3
Price Contingencies              22.3      18.2        4.1
Total Project Cost               79.3      48.3       31.0
Financing Plan:                                 Total      Local      Foreign
-------US$ Mil lions--------
IBRD                             31.0        -       31.0
Federal Government               25.1      25.1        -
Ondo State Government            10.6      10.6        -
Ogun State Government            10.6      10.6        -
Anambra State Government          2.0       2.0        -
Total                            79.3      48.3      31.0
Estimated          --------------------US$ Millions--------------------
Disbursements:   Bank FY       1980      1981     1982      1983      1984
Annual       6.Om      8.2m      7.2m      6.5m     3.lm
Cumulative  6.Om      14.2m    21.4m    27.9m    31.Om
Rate of Return:   13 percent (for the Ondo and Ogun subprojects).
Staff Appraisal
Report:           2160-UNI, dated March 14, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
NIGERIA FOR A FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$31 million to help
finance a project for forestry development in Ondo, Ogun, and Anambra States.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 7 percent per annum. The Federal Government would relend US$26.8
million to the Ondo and Ogun State Governments on the same terms as the Bank
loan and US$2.2 million to the Anambra State Government on possibly more
favorable terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Nigeria, Recent Economic Developments and
Short-Term Prospects" (Report 1690a-UNI), dated December 23, 1977, has been
distributed to the Executive Directors. The following paragraphs summarize
the major conclusions of that report and update them on the basis of more
recent findings by an economic mission which visited Lagos in October/November
1978. The report of this mission is expected to be distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1979. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        After 12 years of military regime, Nigeria is now embarking on
the final stages in its proposed program for a return to civilian rule.
The present military government is adhering closely to the plan, announced
in July 1975, for restoring constitutional government in 1979. In 1976/77,
a new constitution was drafted and elections for local government councils
were held. The draft constitution was subsequently adopted by a Constituent
Assembly comprising mostly elected but partly nominated members. An amended
version was accepted by the Supreme Military Council and formally promulgated
in November of last year. The 12-year-old ban on political parties and
activities was lifted in October 1978, resulting in the upspring of over 20
parties shortly thereafter. Only 5 of these parties met the rules laid down
by the Federal Military Government and will compete in the elections of
federal and state legislatures and of an executive president during the course
of this year, leading to a complete transfer of political power to a civilian
administration by October 1, 1979.
Economic Background
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 79 million (1977).  GNP per
capita is around US$420, which partly reflects the gain from increased oil
prices, and is higher than other indicators of the standard of living would
1/   Part I is identical to Part I of the President's Report on the
Ilorin Agricultural Development Project (P-2388-UNI).



- 2 -
suggest. In terms of such criteria as life expectancy, child mortality and
number of people per physician, it ranks amongst the poorest countries in the
world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a decade, but not
until the sharp increase in the oil price in late 1973 did it acquire such a
dominating influence, surpassing the agricultural sector in all measures of
relative importance except employment; it now accounts for 80 percent of
government revenue and over 90 percent of export earnings. The oil boom gave
a major boost to economic activity and supplied the means for a huge develop-
ment effort. Nigeria launched an ambitious Third National Development Plan
(1975-80) which provided for a US$70 billion investment program. As a result
of the rapid rise in government expenditure, the non-oil sector grew at an
average of 11 percent per year and overall GDP at 6 percent over the four
years since 1973. However, the main sources of growth were construction
and the tertiary sectors, whereas investment and production in the directly
productive sectors, particularly agriculture, has been lagging.
5.        The level of petroleum revenue, up from US$2.3 billion in 1973/74
to US$9.2 billion in 1977/78, has had a profound influence on the fiscal
situation. In the four-year period following 1973/74, recurrent expenditure
by the Federal Government increased from US$1.1 billion to US$4.2 billion,
and capital spending from US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion. Public sector
investment not only showed a remarkable expansion in such traditional areas
as transport, communications, and power, but also in education and large-scale
manufacturing.
6.        The impact of the oil boom on the balance of payments has been
equally strong. Exports rose by 150 percent in 1974 and by mid-1975 foreign
exchange reserves amounted to US$6.2 billion. This permitted a rapid expan-
sion of imports which, by 1978, were at a level four times that reached in
1974.
Re-emergence of Financial Constraints
7.        Projections in 1975 did not indicate a reversal of the country's
resource position until 1980; yet the first signs of a turnaround appeared
already late in 1975, and the financial constraint tightened towards the
end of 1977. The re-emergence of a resource gap has in fact been more
rapid and drastic than expected. The cause is a combination of two major
factors: on the one hand, lower than expected oil exports due to a surplus
of light crude on the world market and, on the other hand, the inability
of the Government to adjust expenditure to available resources.
8.        So rapidly did Government expenditure rise, that already in 1975/76
the federal budget showed an overall deficit of US$2.6 billion; the situation
deteriorated further with the deficit reaching US$3.3 billion in 1977/78.
State Governments' budgets were also in deficit. Initially, the Federal
Government was able to draw upon its previously accumulated balances, but now
that they have been depleted, domestic borrowing, largely through the banking
system, has financed the additional requirements. More recently, external
borrowing has assumed greater importance as a source of finance.



- 3 -
9.        With public sector investment accounting for 70 percent of total
investment, and total Government expenditure around 43 percent of GDP, the
strain on the administrative resources of the Government has been enormous.
The severe shortage of skilled manpower, in addition to physical bottlenecks,
seriously limited the extent to which Nigeria's oil wealth could be effectively
utilized within a short period.
10.       Having reached 2.25 million barrels per day (mbpd) in 1974, oil
production has since then fluctuated at significantly lower levels. In the
first quarter of 1978 production fell sharply to 1.5 mbpd mainly because
Nigeria maintained a relatively high price in the face of intense competition
from the newer sources of oil, e.g. the North Sea and Alaska. Though produc-
tion is now back at a level of around 2 mbpd, the average output for 1978 did
not exceed 1.9 mbpd.
11.       As a result of the stagnation in oil production and the heavy import
demand, the balance of payments recorded an overall deficit from 1976 onwards.
This reflects a basic change in the balance of trade. Whereas oil exports
in 1978 were roughly the same as in 1974, imports have more than quadrupled
and, consequently, the current account is expected to show a deficit of US$4.3
billion in 1978. Foreign exchange reserves fell gradually to US$4.2 billion
at the end of 1977, then dropped rapidly to US$1.9 billion by the end of 1978,
the equivalent of only 7 weeks of imports.
12.       There can be little doubt that the rapid expansion of Government
expenditure has contributed to a high level of inflation in recent years.
The increase in the cost-of-living averaged 26 percent per year between 1975
and 1977, and is unlikely to have dropped below 20 percent in 1978. Severe
port congestion and internal distributional bottlenecks have prevented liberal
import policies from being more effective in dampening inflation. The domestic
rate of inflation has been considerably higher than that of Nigeria's main
trading partners, and consequently the competitive position of domestic pro-
ducers of traded goods is thought to have been seriously weakened.
Recent Measures and Short-Term Outlook
13.       The Government has recognized the deteriorating financial position
and, over the last two years, has introduced a series of measures aimed in
particular at curbing inflation and strengthening the balance of payments.
Monetary policy measures included ceilings on bank credit and a rise in
interest rates in two stages by up to two percent. Investment in agriculture
and oil exploration was encouraged through fiscal incentives. While the offi-
cial oil export price was lowered by 5 percent early in 1978, the price of
domestic fuel was raised by about 60 percent. The principal measures,
however, were the introduction of an austere budget in 1978 together with
extensive import restrictions. The revised Federal Government budget
estimates for 1978/79 provide for a cut of 5 percent in recurrent expendi-
ture, and of 32 percent in capital expenditure compared to last year's
actual outlays. In addition to the imposition of substantially higher
import duties, a wide range of consumer goods as well as intermediate goods
were either banned or licensed. These restrictions were further tightened
in October 1978. The Government also successfully raised two large
Euro-currency loans amounting to a total of US$1.75 billion.



14.       While the Government is continuing to experience serious financial
limitations, and last year's measures have not yet become fully effective,
the financial situation appears to be stabilizing. The budget deficit in
1978/79 has been greatly reduced to about US$1.7 billion and, in view of the
large external loans, the recourse to borrowing from the domestic banking
system is expected to be limited. Along with the substantial run down
of foreign exchange reserves that has already occurred, this is likely to
result in a sharp drop in monetary expansion, and should help to dampen
inflation. The balance of payments outlook, however, is less sanguine.
On the positive side, oil exports in 1979 will be considerably higher
following the recovery in oil production and the recently announced OPEC
price increase. The present uncertaintly in the world oil markets could
also work to Nigeria's advantage. In addition, the import restrictions
which had caused anticipatory purchases in 1978 should have an impact in
1979. On the other hand, no significant change is expected in non-oil
exports, and there is virtually no scope for further use of foreign ex-
change reserves. Moreover, external borrowing at the scale of 1978 is
unlikely to be maintained.
15.       The tighter financial position is also affecting the implementation
of the Third Plan (1975-1980). Its size has been gradually reduced, initially
due to a lack of administrative and executive capacity, which restricted
the rate of implementation, but more recently also as a result of resource
constraints. Against a Plan investment target of US$70 billion, the expected
actual capital expenditure over the five-year period may not exceed US$45 bil-
lion; in real terms the reduction is larger in view of substantial inflation.
Longer-Term Prospects and Policies
16.       The Government is in the midst of preparing the Fourth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85). Although the guidelines have not yet been made public, the
authorities have indicated that the next few years would be viewed as a
period of consolidation, as public sector investments are stabilized at the
current level, and the economy is restructured by stimulating the growth of
commodity producing sectors. Even with an unchanged level, gross domestic
investment would account for around 25 percent of GDP in 1985. Provided
investments are well conceived and effective, this rate should permit a
satisfactory growth of the economy, albeit more modest compared to recent
performance, with considerable potential for employment creation. However,
the principal constraint on future growth will be the balance of payments, and
the actual performance of the economy will depend on how successfully imports
are replaced by domestic production and non-oil exports stimulated. One
critical factor will be to ensure the competitiveness of domestic production
relative to foreign goods. This will require measures affecting the incentive
structure, including the establishment of a favorable cost and price structure,
as well as a change in investment priorities towards more directly productive
projects.
17.       The demand on the institutional and manpower resources of the public
sector in recent years has clearly been excessive. This accounts, in part, for
the relatively weak economic management and inefficiency in resource use.
However, the expected more modest investment effort should ease the strain
on the Government's administrative and managerial capacity. Furthermore, the



- 5 -
planned transition to civilian rule in October 1979 is generally expected
to lead to a greater role for the private sector, thus easing what has been
one of the fundamental constraints to obtaining a higher return on the large
investment effort. Given Nigeria's solid resource base, it is thought that,
in spite of limitations in absorptive capacity, a medium-term growth of around
4-5 percent would be within reach.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
18.       Until recently, Nigeria had only limited recourse to external borrow-
ing. The public guaranteed external debt outstanding (including undisbursed)
amounted to $1.3 billion at the end of 1977 and, mainly because of the two
syndicated Euro-currency loans, $3.2 billion at the end of 1978. The service
on this debt would rise to an average of $550 million a year in the early
1980s, representing about 3 percent of the expected export earnings. The
World Bank's share in the external debt now is about 25 percent. The Govern-
ment has indicated its reluctance to incur any more syndicated loans, though
it would continue to contract project financing largely on commercial terms.
Given the relatively low level of the existing external debt and the Govern-
ment's cautious approach to foreign borrowing, the debt service ratio over the
next ten years is unlikely to rise above 15 percent. Provided the Government
is able to effectively implement policies that will correct the current
imbalance between aggregate demand and supply and lead to improved resource
use, Nigeria can be considered creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of December 31, 1978 amounted
to US$942.9 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of December 31, 1978 was US$596.9 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$346.0 million. Transport and power together
account for about 43 percent of total commitments; agriculture for about 31
percent (most of which was committed in the last four fiscal years); and
education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining
26 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY77 were about
US$59 million, and US$51 million in FY78. Disbursements are expected to
increase during the next two years because of the rapid drawdown of the
remaining port and power loans. In the longer term, disbursements will
increase in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria. There have
been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.5 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC has made three loans to borrowers totalling US$3.6 million
and four equity investments totalling US$2.4 million. Of these amounts,
US$3.4 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as well
as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   Part II is substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's
Report on the Ilorin Agricultural Development Report (P-2388-UNI).



- 6 -
20.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis
on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives are in
consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third Plan,
which places considerable emphasis on agriculture and with its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
including the rural poor.
21.       In view of Nigeria's increasing need for external finance and the
interest it has expressed in greater Bank involvement, a greatly expanded
Bank lending program is contemplated. In developing a broader approach to
lending in Nigeria, a central objective is to encourage the shift (already
discernable in the Federal Government's investment programming) away from
the massive and diffused infrastructure investment, which characterized the
two or three years following the oil boom, towards a more discriminating
support for growth in the commodity producing sectors. A second objective
of Bank lending is to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups
and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This
objective has been actively pursued in recent agricultural projects which
benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural lending of
this kind will continue to figure prominently in the future lending program.
A third objective of Bank lending is to support Government's efforts to
diversify the economy and reduce the excessive dependence upon petroleum as
a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. Consequently, we hope to
develop some industrial projects of an explicitly export-oriented nature,
though our efforts are still at a rather preliminary stage. Agricultural
lending in particular will include strengthening the potential for export
crops such as cocoa.
22.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a positive contribution in water supply, power, and highway maintenance,
including a water supply and sanitation project in Kaduna, scheduled to be
submitted to the Executive Directors in the near future. Project identifica-
tion work is under way in all of these sectors. Strategic support for the
commodity producing sectors will also be given by lending for education. In
this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical and teacher training
be given heavy emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support Government's efforts
to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that
some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will be addressed through
a number of urban development projects focussed on the needs of the urban
poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these lines would be in
keeping with the need to generate employment and would support also the
Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues to ameliorate
poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.



- 7 -
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
General
23.        Forestry's contribution to Nigeria's development has declined sub-
stantially in recent years. Whereas forestry accounted for more than 6 per-
cent of GDP until 1960, its share decreased to around 2 percent in 1977. Also,
its share of total value added in agriculture decreased from 10 percent in 1960
to 6 percent in 1977. This decline in the relative importance of forestry in
agriculture has been caused by the continuing clearing of natural forest for
agricultural purposes and the failure to develop forest plantations before
wood supplies fell short of requirements. The forestry sector involves about
1.5 million people, of whom the vast majority are engaged in collecting fire-
wood and producing poles. The production and processing of logs involves
50,000 people.
Forest Resources and Industries
24.        The population pressure in Nigeria has led to a continuous conver-
sion of forests into agricultural lands. To prevent the total depletion of
Nigeria's forest resources, the Federal Government has to date designated 9.5
million hectares (ha), about 10 percent of Nigeria's total land area, as for-
est reserves. Of the reserves, 7.5 million ha are located in the Savannah
Zone and 2 million ha in the High Forest Zone. The Savannah forests produce
fuelwood and poles, but make no contribution to the supply of sawlogs, which
are being supplied from the High Forest Zone with much higher rainfall. Saw-
log supplies from High Forest Zone areas outside the reserves are expected to
be exhausted by 1990 on account of the ongoing clearing of natural forest and
failure to develop large-scale planting programs.
25.        Nigeria's wood processing industry, located almost completely in
the High Forest Zone, is fairly well developed.  The sawmilAing industry,
comprising about 500 sawmills, produces about one million m of sawn wood
annually. About 25 percent of the output comes from large sawmills which pro-
duce an accurately sawn and well-graded product. The product from the small
mills is generally of poor quality, Put acceptable for most local uses. Five
plywood mills produce about 74,000 m 3of plywood per year; this production is
expected to be increased to 110,000 m by 1980 after the expansion of an
existing mill and the addition of two new mills. Four particle boird mills
are being constructed, and are expected to produce up to 103,000 m of
particle board by 1980. Nigeria's only papermill produces 12,000 tons of
primarily industrial paper from imported pulp and paper waste; it will be
expanded to produce 60,000 tons per year. Two additional mills, with a total
capacity of 165,000 tons of newsprint and industrial paper, are expected to
be completed and in operation by 1981.



-8-
Market Prospects
26.       Nigeria's recent boom in construction activities, a direct conse-
quence of its greatly increased oil income, has led to a strong increase in
the demand for industrial woods. The supply of logs has been limited,
however, and prices have risen sharply. The ban on the export of wood and
wood products imposed in 1976 did little to change this situation.  The 3total
demand for wood and wood products was equivalent to about 3.1 million m of
roundwood in 1q77, and is expected to increase to 5.7 million m in 1985 and
11.7 million m in 1995.
27.       The supply situation will remain difficult.  The annual sustainable
yield from ths 2 million ha of natural forests in the forest reserves is about
2.0 million m of roundwood equivalent. Since supplies from natural forests
outside the forest reserves are expected to be exhausted by 1990, Nigeria will
have to initiate a sizeable increase in its forest plantation program to avoid
becoming a major net importer of wood and wood products. By the end of 1976,
the authorities had established about 115,000 ha of forest plantations.
However, the annual rate of planting was only between 10,000 and 15,000 ha in
the High Forest Zone, whereas an annual rate of 25,000 ha will be needed
between now and 1995 to meet the expected demand for industrial wood in
Nigeria.
Forest Planning and Institutions
28.       Nigeria's forest policy, as formulated in its Third National Devel-
opment Plan, recognizes the need for increasing the country's industrial wood
supplies. However, it does not contain any specific quantitative data on
demand and supply, and actions in the forestry sector therefore have been
carried out on an ad hoc basis. A comprehensive forestry development plan
is required, and should greatly facilitate the drafting of specific action
programs, as well as the subsequent monitoring and evaluation of such programs.
29.       The forestry institutions and services and their staffing will need
to be substantially strengthened. Two federal institutions are concerned with
forestry; the Federal Department of Forestry (FDF) and the Forest Research
Institute of Nigeria. The first institution, under the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources, is charged with (i) formulating a national
forest policy; (ii) promoting forestry projects of national interest; and
(iii) coordinating and monitoring state forestry activities. The second in-
stitution, which operates independently, is responsible for forestry research.
Each state has a Department of Forestry, headed by a Chief Conservator of
Forests, in its Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. These depart-
ments are directly responsible for managing the Forest Reserves and for
controlling the exploitation of other forests. All institutions are hampered
by a lack of experienced manpower at the managerial, administrative, and
technical levels. The existing training facilities cannot cope with the
manpower requirements and, although new training facilities have been planned,
the forestry sector will have to reckon with manpower shortages for a long
time.



-9-
Bank Role
30.       The Bank is already, in a very modest way, involved in Nigeria's
forestry sector through two rural development projects (Lafia - Loan 1454-UNI
and Ayangba - Loan 1455-UNI), which include the establishment of 3,200 ha of
plantations for fuelwood and poles in the vicinity of major towns; both sub-
projects are in their first year of operation, and except for local funding
problems, are being implemented satisfactorily. The proposed Forestry Planta-
tion Project would be the first comprehensive forestry project assisted by
the Bank; it would focus on the development of forest plantations, but at
the same time -- in line with the recommendations set out in the Forestry
Sector Policy Paper (Report No. 1778 of September 15, 1977) -- contribute
to the optimum development of Nigeria's forestry sector as a whole.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in March
1977. A FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program preparation mission visited Nigeria
in May 1977, and completed its report five months later. The project was
appraised by the Bank in April/May 1978; a Staff Appraisal Report, dated
March 14, 1979 (2160-UNI), is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations on the proposed loan were held at the Bank in
November 1978. Supplementary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.
Project Objectives
32.       The proposed project would assist in reversing the present decline
of Nigeria's forestry sector through a considerable expansion of its national
plantation development program and strengthening of its forestry management
and planning capabilities at both state and federal levels. The project would
cover five years of a long-term plantation development program, which would
increase roundwood production for utility-grade timber; provide short-fiber
pulpwood for the pulp and paper industry; assess the viability of supplying
locally-grown long-fiber pulpwood to the pulp and paper industry; improve
forest plantation management in three states; strengthen FDF's planning
capabilities; provide employment and social services; and increase food
production in the rural areas.
Project Description
33.       The project would consist of four subprojects:  two identical
state-owned Gmelina plantation projects in Ondo and Ogun States, state-owned
Pine and Eucalyptus trial plantations in Anambra State, and the strengthening
of Nigeria's forestry services at both state and federal levels. It would be
implemented over the period 1979-84, and would include:



- 10 -
Forest Plantations and Food Crop Production
(i) establishing 11,300 ha of Gmelina plantations in each of
the Oluwa and Omo forest reserves, located in the High
Forest Zone of Ondo and Ogun States, respectively;
(ii) establishing 1,600 ha of Tropical Pine and Eucalyptus
trials in the Mbanasa Forest Reserve in the Savannah
Zone of Anambra State, and conducting introductory
trials of Tropical Pine in Ondo and Ogun States and other
selected areas;
(iii) providing for the maintenance and protection of about
11,000 ha of existing Gmelina plantations in the Oluwa
and Omo Forest Reserves;
(iv) establishing adequate plantation protection systems,
including firetowers and radio communication; and
(v) provIding annually, in newly cleared areas, 1,400 ha
for Taungya farming 1/ and 500 ha for commercial maize
production on a pilot basis.
Civil Works
(vi) providing housing for project staff and buildings
for project administration, and improving electricity,
water supply, and other services;
(vii) constructing about 610 km of primary plantation roads
and 930 km of tracks, and maintaining selected roads and
tracks; and
(viii)  clearing about 27,000 ha of High Forest and 1,600 ha of
Savannah woodland for plantation and infrastructure
development.
Institutional Support and Technical Assistance
(ix) strengthening the management of the state plantation
projects and the monitoring and planning capabilities
of FDF by providing technical and administrative staff
and logistical support;
(x) providing in-service and overseas training; and
1/   Taungya - Local farmers who are allocated temporary plots in the
forest reserves for foodcrop production until the plantation-grown
trees close canopy, at which time they obtain new plots.



- 11 -
(xi) providing consultancy services to assist FDF and the
state forestry services in reviewing forestry policies,
introducing new technologies, and preparing new forestry
projects.
34.       The Ondo and Ogun plantation sub-projects would be established
on cleared degraded high forest, and would each require an annual planting
program reaching 3,000 ha of fast-growing Gmelina after 3 years. They would
produce pulpwood from thinnings after 7 years and sawlogs and pulpwood after
15 years. They also would promote the production of food by utilizing the
fertility of the forest soils during the first season after clearing and
until the trees close canopy. About 5,000 Taungya farmers would farm about
1,400 ha each year for the production of foodcrops, and would be provided
with extension services and farm inputs, including improved planting mate-
rials. About 500 ha would be allocated each year for commercial maize produc-
tion on a pilot basis. This program would be carefully monitored, and its
merits would be evaluated after three years.
35.       The pulp and paper industry's long-fiber pulp requirements now have
to be imported. Therefore, under the Anambra plantation sub-project Nigeria's
potential for growing Tropical Pine for long-fiber pulpwood would be assessed.
The possibility of integrating plantation and livestock development would also
be investigated under this sub-project.
36.       Forestry management, in the past, has been dependent upon casual
labor. However, with increasing difficulties in hiring labor, the project
would accommodate a nucleus of permanent forest workers by constructing forest
villages for about 1,000 workers and their families, providing basic social
facilities, and allocating land around the villages for vegetable gardening.
The Ondo and Ogun subprojects would have administrative centers, whereas the
Anambra subproject buildings and services would be kept to a minimum because
of its pilot nature.
37.       Until now, land clearing for the Ondo and Ogun forestry programs has
been done manually by local contractors at a cost of about US$500 per ha.
However, they have not been able to clear more than 1,000 ha of High Forest
per year, mainly because of labor shortages. To achieve a timely annual
planting program of 3,000 ha in each of the High Forest Zone subprojects,
forest clearing for the plantations would have to be mechanized. The critical
importance of meeting these annual planting targets (see para. 27) fully
justifies the mechanization of forest clearing in spite of its somewhat higher
cost of about US$800 per ha. In Anambra, land clearing would be mechanized as
well to enable the removal of all stumps, which is a requirement for optimum
soil cultivation.
38.       An important component of the project would be the strengthening
of forestry management and planning at both state and federal levels. The
project would assist the forestry services in Ondo, Ogun, and Anambra in
implementing large-scale planting programs, and FDF in improving its over-
all direction and planning and its ability to provide technical assistance
to the states. This would also include assistance in preparing a long-term
comprehensive national forestry plan (see para. 28).



- 12 -
39.       Besides extensive on-the-job training, the project would include
a formal training component. A small training center would be established
in or near Ondo or Ogun State. The center would be owned and managed by FDF,
and would provide courses in plantation management, silvicultural practices,
record keeping, forest inventory work, and the maintenance of equipment. In
addition, the project would provide 123 man-months of fellowships for training
in forest clearing operations and heavy equipment maintenance, silvicultural
practices, forest management, and fire protection; and postgraduate training
in forest economics and other forestry subjects.
40.       Finally, the project would provide 60 man-months of consultant
services to assist FDF in preparing a feasibility study for a possible fol-
low-up forestry project; study the viability of producing charcoal and
marketing it for local industrial use; evaluate the commercial aspects of
sawmilling, seasoning, and preserving 15-year old plantation-grown timber;
review forestry tariffs and concession agreements of the state forestry ser-
vices to ensure that fees and royalties paid by loggers and concessionaires
to the states are related to the value of their output; periodically review
and advise on forest clearing techniques, silvicultural practices, planta-
tion management, and the mensuration of the three plantations; assist in
establishing the training center's training courses; and assist FDF in in-
terpreting side-looking airborne radar and satellite imagery. FDF would be
responsible for the preparation of detailed terms of reference for review
by the Bank to ensure that consultants would be appointed with qualifica-
tions, and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Implementation
41.       Separate Project Management Units (PMUs) would be responsible for
the daily management and technical operations of the Ondo and Ogun subprojects.
Each PMU would be headed by a project manager, who would be responsible to a
Budget and Policy Coordinating Committee (BPCC) through the Chief Conservator
of Forests in the respective states. Because of the small size and the pilot-
nature of the Anambra subproject, this component would be implemented by
existing forestry staff, assisted by a silviculturist seconded from FDF; the
latter would be responsible to the Chief Conservator of Forests of Anambra.
The BPCCs in Ondo and Ogun States would be established by the respective
Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources, and chaired by the Permanent
Secretaries of Agriculture. They would review budget and policy matters
for the proposed forestry project and for other Bank-assisted agricultural
projects in their state, determine common policy issues, have an overall view
of project budgets, ensure common conditions of service, and award major
contracts. The gazetting of the PMUs and the BPCCs would be a condition of
disbursement for the Ondo and Ogun subprojects (Schedule 1, para 4(c)(i) of
the Loan Agreement). Under earlier Bank-assisted agricultural projects in
Nigeria, the beneficiary states established separate Executive Committees for
each project. These Committees are working well, but would partly overlap in
states with more than one Bank-assisted project. This would be the case in
Ondo and Ogun States which already have ongoing cocoa and oil palm projects
(Lns. 1045-UNI and 1192-UNI). The new BPCCs would be responsible for all
Bank-assisted, and possibly other, agricultural projects, and would enable a
better coordination of operations and policies in the agricultural sector.



- 13 -
42.       The three states' forestry services now have some capable forestry
staff at junior and middle management levels, but are very short of senior
management staff with experience in implementing large-scale plantation
development programs. Therefore, specialists with qualifications, and on
terms and conditions of employment, acceptable to the Bank would be recruited
to provide the necessary experience. The appointment of the project managers
in Ondo and Ogun States and the silviculturist in Anambra State would be a
condition of disbursement for the three subprojects. The Ministries of Agri-
culture and Natural Resources of the three states would, as far as possible,
give priority to the recruitment of competent junior and middle level staff
for the project units and would, if necessary, second technical and other
staff to them (Section 2.02 of the Ondo, Ogun, Anambra Project Agreements).
43.       FDF's senior staff would be strengthened to improve sector planning,
including project preparation, monitoring and evaluation of ongoing forestry
projects, and to provide to the states technical assistance in survey design
and data processing and analysis, as well as financial management. To this
effect, FDF would recruit five specialists, who would have qualifications, and
be appointed on terms and conditions of employment, acceptable to the Bank.
The specialists would also help establishing a central data bank to provide
the basic information for forestry sector planning.
Project Costs
44.       Total costs for the 5-year project period 1979-84 are estimated at
US$79.3 million (including taxes and duties of US$3.2 million), of which the
foreign exchange component would amount to US$31.0 million or 39 percent. A
breakdown of costs by major categories is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
The Ondo and Ogun subprojects would each cost US$34.6 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$13.4 million or 39 percent, the Anambra subproject
US$6.2 million with a foreign exchange component of US$2.2 million or 36
percent, and the FDF technical assistance component US$3.9 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$2.0 million or 52 percent. Allowance has
been made for physical contingencies equal to 5 percent of base costs, and
price contingencies have been calculated on base costs plus physical contin-
gencies. Price contingencies for foreign costs allow for an annual rate of
inflation between 6 and 8 percent. Price contingencies for local costs are
estimated at 20 percent per annum, except for government-hired labor, the
cost of which is expected to rise by 13 percent a year. On this basis, total
contingencies are estimated at 46 percent of base costs.
Project Financing
45.       The proposed loan to the Federal Government of US$31.0 million
would finance 41 percent of the total project cost, net of taxes, and would
be equivalent to the foreign exchange cost of the project. The Federal
Government as borrower would onlend US$29.0 million to the Ondo, Ogun, and
Anambra State Governments, namely US$13.4 million to each Ondo and Ogun on
the same terms as the Bank loan and US$2.2 million to Anambra on possibly
more favorable terms. The balance of the loan amount would be used to assist



- 14 -
in financing the FDF component of the project. The Federal Government would
carry the foreign exchange risk for the entire loan, however. The signing of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Federal Government and the Ondo,
Og'-n, and Anambra State Governments would be a condition of disbursement of
the respective loan component for each State. As detailed in the Loan and
Project Summary, of the remaining project cost, the Federal Government would
finance US$25.1 million, or 32 percent of total project cost, the Ondo and
Ogun State Governments each US$10.6 million or together 26 percent, and the
Anambra State Government US$2.0 million or 3 percent.
46.       A number of Bank projects have had problems in obtaining adequate
counterpart funds on time. To reduce such problems to a minimum, it was agreed
that: (a) as a condition of disbursement for each state, commercial bank
accounts be opened for the two PMUs and Anambra's subproject with initial
deposits of N 0.6 million each for Ondo and Ogun States and N 0.2 million for
Anambra State; (b) the Bank reimburse through the Central Bank directly to
these accounts; (c) for Ondo and Ogun States, the stumpage fees from salvaged
logs of natural forests and from plantation pulpwood and sawlogs in the
project areas be paid into the accounts to constitute a revolving fund enabling
a continued planting and maintenance program; (d) all three State Governments
guarantee overdrafts on the accounts up to the equivalent of six months'
capital requirements until sufficient funds have been accumulated from stumpage
fees to form a revolving fund; (e) the Federal and State Governments provide
their quarterly contributions to the accounts at least three months in advance
in accordance with the approved annual budget; (f) the three subprojects
submit to the Federal Government, the State Governments, and the Bank, at
least four months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, an annual budget
proposal for the subprojects as approved by the BPCCs in Ondo and Ogun States
and by the Chief Conservator of Forests in Anambra State; and (g) the sub-
projects' audited accounts be submitted to the Bank within four months after
each fiscal year, together with a statement from the auditor certifying that
Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose (Section 2.01 of the Ondo,
Ogun and Anambra Project Agreements).
Cost Recovery
47.       Fees and royalties collected by the state governments from log ex-
traction are unrealistically low, and will have to be substantially increased.
For Nigeria to remain self-sufficient in wood and woodproducts, it will have
to establish 25,000 ha of plantations annually; to achieve this, it will have
to spend substantially more than the fees and royalties of about N 6 million
per year collected at present. The appropriate level of stumpage fees should
be examined in view of its impact on Nigeria's forest development program in
general and on the financial viability of the individual plantation projects
in particular. Therefore, the Governments of Ondo and Ogun States would
prepare and submit to the Bank for its review proposals on a formula for cal-
culating stumpage rates by not later than March 31, 1980, and set appropriate



- 15 -
plantation stumpage fees by not later than June 30, 1980; the fees, to be
reviewed from time to time, would be collected by the Ondo and Ogun PMUs, and
should ensure an optimum financial rate of return on project plantations of
at least 11 percent in real terms (Section 3.04 of the Ondo and Ogun Project
Agreements). These agreements should result in a significant increase in
stumpage rates.
Procurement
48.       Vehicles, tractors, and equipment, estimated to cost about US$20.3
million, would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines for contracts of US$100,000 or more, and
through local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank for contracts of between US$30,000 and US$100,000. For contracts
of US$30,000 and less, direct competitive shopping would be employed. Domes-
tically manufactured goods procured under international competitive bidding
would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower, for purposes of bid evaluation. Experience with similar
projects shows that contracts for houses, stores, and buildings, at an esti-
mated aggregate value of about US$18.5 million, would not be attractive to
foreign contractors, because of the small size of individual contracts and the
dispersed location of the works; these contracts would therefore be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Forest clearing and the construction of plantation roads,
valued at US$9.6 million and US$6.2 million, respectively, would be undertaken
by the project on force account, except in Anambra, where, because of the
small size of the road program, the construction would be contracted on the
basis of local competitive bidding satisfactory to the Bank. Force account is
necessary because of the unavailability of capable contractors in the project
areas. The services of consultants and specialist staff, valued at about
US$5.1 million, would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
Disbursement
49.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1979-84.
Disbursement on vehicles, tractors, equipment, and building materials is
estimated at US$23.1 million, and would be made against 100 percent of
foreign exchange expenditures or, if locally procured, against a percentage
of local expenditures (89 percent for vehicles, tractors, forest clearing,
roadmaking, and agricultural equipment, spare parts, and supplies, and 38
percent for buildings and houses). Disbursement on internationally recruited
staff, consultancy services, and overseas training for local staff is esti-
mated at US$5.1 million, and would be made against 100 percent of foreign
exchange expenditures or 60 percent of local expenditures. An additional
provision of US$2.8 million has been made on an unallocated basis.



- 16 -
Economic Benefits
50.       The economic rate of return for the Ondo and Ogun subprojects,
which account for about 87 percent of total project costs, has been esti-
mated at about 13 percent. Due to the experimental and training nature of
the Anambra subproject, and the lack of positive data on yields, a meaningful
economic rate of return for this subproject as a whole cannot be calculated.
However, based on rough estimates for this type of trials, these activities,
if undertaken on plantations of a commercial nature and scale, could be
expected to obtain an economic rate of return of about 14 percent. The rates
of return are not very sensitive to changes in cost-benefit assumptions
because of the long gestation period of the project. For the first two
subprojects, a decrease in benefits of 20 percent, or an increase in costs of
25 percent, would result in an economic rate of return of 11 percent. The
pilot plantation in Anambra State would still have an economic rate of return
of more than 10 percent if benefits decreased by 33 percent or costs increased
by 50 percent.
51.       The above calculations include the incremental benefits from the
forest plantations and maize trials. In addition, the project is expected
to yield benefits which cannot be quantified, including benefits deriving
from Taungya farming, roads and rural infrastructure, and preservation of
the natural ecosystem. Through 5,000 Taungya farmers, the project would
contribute to increased local food production, and consequently higher rural
incomes. It would generate employment for about 1,500 forestry workers, of
whom half would be employed permanently and the other half during the planting,
thinning, and cutting seasons; it also would ensure improved employment for a
substantial number of workers in the related logging and processing industries.
The natural ecosystem in Ondo and Ogun States would be maintained, and in
Anambra State improved. In the first two states, the area would remain under
forest cover. In Anambra State, the poor quality savannah woodland, with its
low agricultural potential, would be converted into forest, thereby reducing
the dangers of erosion.
52.       The project would also benefit Nigeria's foreign exchange situation.
The logs transformed into sawn wood would lead to foreign exchange savings
estimated at US$177 million over the period 1995-1999. The thinnings from the
plantations would become available just when the nearby pulp and paper mill
would be critically short of pulpwood, leading to foreign exchange savings of
US$64 million over the period 1986-90. In addition, salvage logging of the
natural forest during the five-year implementation period would produce an
estimated 700,000 m of logs, valued at about US$22 million. The project
would contribute to silvicultural research in exploring the possibility of
growing wood for long-fiber pulp in Nigeria. The country would require about
60,000 metric tons of long-fiber pulp by 1985, and local production could save
an estimated US$24 million in foreign exchange annually. The agricultural
component would yield about 1,000 tons of maize valued at US$346,000 annually.
Project Risks
53.       In respect to the technical side of the project, risks are minimal
since the package has been successfully tested for many years. Physical
risks are those associated with the prevalence of fires, which can seriously



- 17 -
reduce yields, particularly on those plantations being managed for sawlog
production. However, the project, through the basic lay-out of the planta-
tions and the establishment of firefighting units, will greatly reduce this
risk. The financial viability of the project plantations could be jeopardized
if the State Governments fail to increase the present low stumpage rates.
However, the State Governments have agreed to increase the stumpage rates,
and have started the process of obtaining a substantial raise (see para 47).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the States of
Ondo, Ogun, and Anambra, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. These include the following conditions of dis-
bursement of the respective loan components:
(a) signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Federal Government and the Ondo, Ogun, and Anambra
State Governments (Schedule 1, para. 4(d)(i) of the
Loan Agreement);
(b)  gazetting of Mbanasa as Forest Reserve (Schedule 1,
para. 4(b) of the Loan Agreement);
(c) gazetting the establishment of the PMUs and for Ondo
and Ogun States, with terms of reference and composi-
tion acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 1, para. 4(c)(i)
of the Loan Agreement and Sections 2.01(b) and (c) of
the Ondo and Ogun Project Agreements);
(d) appointing the project managers in Ondo and Ogun States
and the silviculturist in Anambra State (Schedule 1,
paras. 4(c) (ii) and (e) of the Loan Agreement); and
(e) opening of commercial bank accounts for the PMUs and
Anambra's subproject, with an initial deposit of
N 0.6 million for each subproject in Ondo and Ogun
States and N 0.2 million for Anambra State (Schedule 1,
para. 4(d) (ii) of the Loan Agreement, Section 2.01(d)(i)
of the Ondo and Ogun Project Agreements and Section
2.01(c)(i) of the Anambra Project Agreement).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 14, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                                   Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA                                                    /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KH. )                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAI            923.8                                                      SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      445.0                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME          INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Le   GROUP |d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   120.0        200.0      420.0            223.6       432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF GOAL EQUIVALENT)        34.0         52.0      90.0              86.7      251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILIONS)                           51.6        66.2       79.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 18.0           23.0       26.0             13.6        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         56.0         72.0      86.0              18.4       42.7          50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0          152.0     178.0              53.6       95.0          93.3
POPULATIL)N ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                           43.0 /f      44.8      45.1              44.4        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                           54.9 If      53.0      52.6             52.7        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.1 Lf       2.2       2.3               2.8         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9          2.5        2.5              2.6         2.7          2.5
URBAN                                5.0          5.0        5.0              5.8         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BI,TH RATE (PER ThOUSAND)       49.3         49.8       49.3             46.9        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.9         24.5       22.7             20.6        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.3        3.3              3.1         3.2          2.5
FAMILY P1.ANN1NG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          7.6       33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..              2.5        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NIITRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CA2ITA (1970-100)               97.0        100.0      87.6              94.2       104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     91.0 /R      89.0      88.0              90.1       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            50.0 LE      59.9      46.3              55.2       56.8          63.0
OF WIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.7 /R      16.3       9.3              17.1        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..         ..               ..         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    33.5           38.5       41.0             43.7        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND                             207.0           ..      [63.0            138.4        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TCO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..             22.4        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                 *-           *-         *-             66.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             10.4        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TC EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULUTION)
TOTAL                                 *-                      *-             23.9        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..             70.3        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             14.2        25.4         16.1
POPULATICN PER PHYSICIAN           56900.0/h   24660.0/i 25' 40.0           21757.5      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATIlN PER NURSING PERSON       7640.0/h    5070.0/i  6:30.0             3473.8      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATICN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2770.0/h O   2220.0    1,'00.0            645.4       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                          1400.0                        72.9       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                 *       18450.0         ..           1292.6      1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSI0BS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..         ..             19.2        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ....                    .               4.9          ..5.2
URBAN                                                        4.7              5.0                      5.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..              4.7          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 .             .         .                 ..                      .
URBAN                                3.0           ..        2. 2                         2.3          1.5
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ,           ..         .4               ..        28.3         64.1
URBAN                                 ...                   42.4                ...                   67.8
RURAL                                 ...                      ..                         03          34.1



- 20 -                                                        AMNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA                                                   /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SANE         SmA      NEXT HIGHEFR
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  36.0         34.0       49.0             52.1        75.8         99.8
FEMALE                27.0         25.0       39.0             37.6        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          4.0       10.0              8.0        17.7         33.8
FEMALE                 1.0          3.0        7.0              5.0        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  5.0            8.5        3.8 /k           7.2         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             30.0         34.0       34.0             43.2        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                           19.0         21.0       25.0             22.8        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         25.0 /1        ..         ..             20.3        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.0        2.1              3.9         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0         23.0       69.0             40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2          1.4        1.8              2.2        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    8.0          5.0        9.0              3.9        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        0.5              1.2         1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18300.0 /f  25600.0   29900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41.3         40.6      40.2              32.6       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               71.0         67.0       61.0             73.3        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.4         13.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.7         40.5       39.1             42.0        37.8         33.8
MALE                                  50.9         48.8       47.4             54.8        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                34.8         32.4       31.0             27.3        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4 If       1.2        1.2              1.2         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             25.7       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..             55.1       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..              5.8         5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             14.5       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..           108.8       155.9        191.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      74.0              74.1       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     175.0             124.4      143.7        319.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      83.0             59.6        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      33.0             26.8        22.9         19.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      27.0              47.6       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is nct uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   Ie  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   If  1963;   /R  1961-63;   /h  1962;   /i  Registered, not all
practicing in the country;    LL  Including ex-north Cameroons under British administration;   /k  certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of a vocational of technical
nature are nov reported under general education;   /1  prior to 1965.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
- 21-                                                                     Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Hatt The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme. values of the indicator and the oost
populated country is each group.  Coverage of countrieas asmonsg the indicators dependa on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to watee and excrete disposal, housing, income distribhtisn and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kn)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Pcpulation (total,
Total - Total surfuce area comprising land area  nd inland waters                            urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bhds
Ag.icultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fall.ow                                                                                 it least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                      c al centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conv-rsioa method as World Sank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 .siatant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodatiss and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cosmercial energy                        from hospitals divided by the swbser of beds.
(coal asd lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydra-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Aversas sie of hosbehold (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISIICS                                                               A househeld consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total popalation. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                       ,nd their main seals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent cf total) - Ratin of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tins; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                      Av-rage number of pemons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of data anong countries,                                                                   ler of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwelings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  m. km. - Mid-year population per square kilameter (100 hectares)                       unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                           Acc~ess to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. k. agriculture land - Computed as above f-r agricultural land                       Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percenalge
only.                                                                                      if total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population Rse structure (lercent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCitTION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      P:.mary school - total, and female - Total and fmale enrollment of al ages
growth rates of total and urban aid-year populations for 1950-60,                           ,t the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged 6-l1 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
aid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       i:ation enro1lment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        cbhve the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Se:ondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      t ion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pre-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                              ,ides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Grons reproduction rate - Average nsober of daughters a woman will bear                      u.sually of 12 tI  17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she enp -msces present age-                          occluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year  verages ending in 1960,                     Vocationa1 enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational inetitutions  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            i:lude technical, industrim1, or ether programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                    Pupi.l-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled as
planning prsgram.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by nuebers of teachers in thecorre-
Familv planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSIMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                      Passenger oars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars cumprico motor cars
capita annua1 production of all food commodities,.                                       ns.ting less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capits supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in cou.try per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies enmprise domestic production, imports less                  bro)adcasts to general public per thousand of population; encludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                 rec.eivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                     eflect; data for recent years may not be comparable since  on.t countries
quire..nts were eetimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                   abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                     TV reeeivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera.
.eights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at househ.ld level.                                                          tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                     New..;paper circulation (pear thousand population) - Shown the average circla-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       ti.n of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                     e:ation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is c sidered to
a mimimus allowanco of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     ble "daily  if it appears at least four times a weak.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Ci-rma annual attendance per capita per year - Rased on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of an=ial protein as an average for the world, proposed by                         nit.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived froe animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Ecoenoically active persons, including srted
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but eacluding bousewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yeans, to children in this age group.                                 tises in various countries are not comparable.
Fee-1e (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hbnting and fishing
Life espectancy at birth (years) - Average nsmber of years of life                           us percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Ind-try (percent) - Labor force in mining, constru-tion, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  Electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Parukiaipation rate (Percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, ond
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  lemale labor frce as percentages of their respective pyo loioIs.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban,  end rural -                     :.hs  are ILls  odjoated participation rates reflecting age-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasona.ble access to                      str-ct-r  ci the population, nod long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   EI-comic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 1S and 65 and cr00 to
uncontaminated water such ae  that from protected boreholem, springs,                      :he labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary w11s) as percentages of their respective pepulatinns.
In an orbsn area a public fountain or stasdpost located not more                      INCOIIE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 n.ters from  a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Per,:entage of private income (both in rash and kind) receised by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and portet 40 percent
imply that the housewife or nembers of the household do not have to                        if householdn.
spend a disproporti.onte part of the day in fetchiog the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eacreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                    EstLmated absolute poverty income level (USS per --oita) - urban and rural -
rural - Nusbar of people (total, urban, and real) served by e-eta                            kbsolure poverty income level in that income 1evel belos which a sinimal
disposal as porcentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                          cstritin..lly adequate diet plns essential non-food req,ite-ests is not
disposal say include the collection and disposal, with or without                          Jffordable.
treatment, of husan e-cerea and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Est Lmated relative poverty income level (US5 per capita) - urban and rural -
or the une of pit privies and similar installations.                                       :ielative poverty inmoe level is that income level loss than one-third
Population Per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                         let capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from  a sadical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) -  rban and toral -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                               'ercent of population (urban and rural) who are either 'absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate acrres, praetical nurses, and                          'relative poor" whichever is greater.
Ousiutont nurses.
Econo=ic and Social DIta Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Departsent



- 22-                                             ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GRO'WTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                        1974-Z7                                1977
GNP at Market Prices          39839         100.0                          7.4                11.3              5.4
Gross Domestic Investment    12119           30.4                         30.7                24.5             23.6
Gross National Saving         11101          28.3                         26.3                16.6             17.8
Current Account Balance       -1018           2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS         12639          31.7                          1.9                14.7              9 9
Imports of Goods, NFS         13236          33.2                         33.1                31.0             17.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                    Labor Force V                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Nln. _                        _                                 u US $       T 
Agriculture                    9897        30.4                  18.3       61                     541          50
Industry                      15032        46.2                   5.2       17                    2891         265
Services                       7636        23.4                   5.0       17                    1527         140
Unallocated                                                       1.4        5
Total/Average            .                                            .-. 
32566      100.0                  29.9     TWO                     1089        lOO.O
OOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Goverlment
N   Mln)  -    of GDP                            M  ln.)   -     Dr3 GDP
1917U78        1977/8  1976/7-1977/8              1977/8        1977/8    1976/7-77/8
Current Receipts                   $8809            34.1         34.8                 8359          32.3           32.7
Current Expenditure                 5047            19.5         19.0                 269           10.4           10.0
Current Surplus                     3762          -174.-6        15.8                 5662                          = 22.7
Capital Expenditures                8822            34.1         33.0                 6287          24.3           24.4
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1972         1973        1974         1            1976        1977
Ellion  N  outstanding end period)-
Money and Quasi Money                      1161.4       1414.1       2156.3       3622.5       5278.9    7067.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                519.0        497.1      -1460.1     -1281.5         199.5    2094.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               750.2        854.4       1070.2       1786.1       2417.8    3514.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            15.1         15.9         14.9        21.9         26.7      27.3
General Price Index (1960 = 100)            172.9        203.9        217.0       289.6        352,4    423.1
Annual percentage changes ini
General Price Index                          -3.5         17.9          6,3        33.5         21.7      21.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -2.3         -4.2          n.a.        n.a.         n.a.    n.a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                26.9         12.7         26.6        66.8         35.4      45.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices
. Not applicable



ANNEX I
- 23-                                           Page 5 of 5
TRADE PA1MENTS AND GAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
197      19_76     1977                                                   US $ Mlr,   %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           8623      10549    12639              Crude Oil                             9281        91.3
Imports of Goods, NFS           8149      10517    13236              Cocoa Products                         380         3.7
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       47          32      577              Palm Products                           44          .5
Tin                                    26          .3
Interest Payments (net)          460        386       311             411 Other Commodities                  439         4.2
Workers' Remittances                -        -          _
Other Factor Payments (net)   -741         -676      -547
Net Transfers                   -125       -156      -184
Balance on Current Account         68      -14    -1018                       Total                        10170       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        410        340       440             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1978
Net MT Borrowing
Disbursements                 107         61        94                                                          US $ MIrD
Amortization                  -34        -29       -61
Subtotal                       73         32        33               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               1284
Capital Grants                    *                                     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             -254       -453      -110               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               -_40        +66      -199
Increase in Reserves (+)         257       -429      -854             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977
Gross Reserves (end year)      5896        5517      4617
Net Reserves   (end year)      5855        5426      4572               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed               0.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  *
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       162         280       212
of which:  Petroleum          -         -          -
Exports                       7430        9468    10944
of wthich:  Petroleum      7430        9468    10944       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1978) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHAIIGE                                                                                           IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                 450         38.3
1975:  N1.00  =  US$1.62                                            Undisbursed                             343           -
1976:  N1.00  =  US$1.60                                            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed             338.3
1977:  N1.00  =  US$1.55
1978:  N1.00  =  US$1.58
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
* Less than 1%
Not Available
January, 1979



ANNEX II
- 24 -                              Page I of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of December 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                                    US$ million
Number      Year     Borrower       Purpose                       Amount (less cancellations)
Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Eleven loans and two credits fully disbursed                     312.1      35.5
427       1965      Nigeria       Roads                          14.5                  2.5
764       1971      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                       7.2                  .0
814       1972      Nigeria       Education                      17.3                 7.9
838       1972      Nigeria       Roads                          26.3                13.8
847       1972      NEPA          Power                          76.0                  2.5
922       1973      NPA           Port                           55.0                12.1
929       1973      Nigeria       Education                      54.0                47.8
1045        1974     Nigeria        Cocoa Dev.                    20.0                  8.9
1091        1975     Nigeria        Livestock                     21.0                 17.6
1092        1975     Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Funtua              29.0                  6.0
1093        1975     Nigeria        Agri. Dev. ;usau              19.0                  2.6
1103        1975     Nigeria        Rice Dev.                     17.5                 11.4
116+        1975     Nigeria        Agri. Dev. Sombe              21.0                  6.7
1183        1975     Nigeria        M.W. State Jil Palm           29.5                 28.5
119L        1976     Nigeria        E.C. State Jil Palm           19.0                 16.6
1192        1976     Nigeria        W. State Oil Palm             17.0                 14,2
145S        1977     Nigeria        Agri. Dev. Lafia               27.0                24,5
1455        1977     Nigeria        Agri. Dev. Ayangba            35.0                 32.4
*159L        1978     Nigeria        Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil   30.0                   30.0
1597        1978     NIDB           Industrial Dev.               60.0                 60.0
Total                                       907.4      35.5    346.0
Of which has been repaid                    114.2       1.6
Total outstanding 1/                        793.2      33.9
Amount sold                       16.8
of which has been repaid          15.8        1.0
Total now held by Bank aad IDA**            792.2      33.9
Total undisbursed                           346.0       0.0    346.0
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of December 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                Typa of               Amount in US$ Million
Year                                 Bus Lness             Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.  Tex:ile Mfg.             1.0     0.6       1.6
1970
1964         Nigeria Industrial   Dev. Fin. Co.                   1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973         Funtua Cottonseed    Veg. Oil               1.6                1.6
Crushing Ltd.          Cru:;hing
1973        Nigerian Aluminum    Alwainum                1.0      0.3       1.3
Extrusion Ltd.        Pro:essing
1974        Lagiagi Sugar          Sugalr                         0.1       0.1
Estates_
Total Gross Commitments                     3.6      2.4       6.0
Less cancellations                        0.3                0.3
Less sold or repaid                       1.8      1.5       3.3
Total Commitments now heLd by IFC           1.5      0.9       2.4
Undisbursed                                  -       0.1       0.1
* Not yet Effective
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
1/Excluding cancellations of 5.0.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 427-UNI      Western Nigeria Road Project:  US$14.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
Loan No. 764-UNI      Western Cocoa Project:  US$7.2 million Loan of
June 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 5, 1971;
Closing Date: January 31, 1979
The project has been successfully completed. Before formal closure,
the Bank is processing the final withdrawal application.
Loan No. 814-UNI      Second Education Project:  US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Disruptions caused by the creation of new State Governments in 1976
are no longer delaying the project. While progress is being made in the
implementation of the project in three of the four participating States, the
current financial constraints have affected 8 of the 9 schools in the project
in Imo State. The project should be completed during 1979. Discussions are
being held between the Bank and the Government with a view to strengthening
the project administration and making adequate provision for timely counterpart
funding. Once these issues have been resolved satisfactorily, the closing
date will be extended appropriately.
Loan No. 838-UNI      Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The construction components of the project have been completed.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to complete
disbursements and to allow consultants to complete preparation for a Sixth
Highway Project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 847-UNI      Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
While the completion of the rural electrification component has
been delayed, the project is expected to be completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 922-UNI      Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Civil works are complete. Container cranes are now on order and
will be in operation by the end of 1979. Total project costs are much in
excess of the appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns.
A revision of the tariff structure in 1977 considerably improved the
financial situation of the National Ports Authority.
Loan No. 929-UNI      Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the
scope of the project is under review. Because of weak management and a need
to redesign the project, completion could be delayed by a year or more.
Project administration was complicated by the partition of many states
in 1976. Discussions are being held between the Bank and the Government with
a view to strengthening the project administration and making adequate provi-
sions for timely counterpart funding. Once these issues have been resolved
satisfactorily, a proposed revision of the project scope and extension of the
closing date will be submitted to the Board for consideration.
Loan No. 1045-UNI    Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new States has created some organizational
and managerial problems, the project is almost completed in three of the four
states. Progress of the Bendel State component is now better because manage-
ment/organizational problems have been reduced.
Loan No. 1091-UNI    Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart
funding from the Federal Government have been encountered. A contract has
recently been concluded with a management consulting firm and, as a result,
prospects for project implementation are greatly improved.
I



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1092-UNI    Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily. The
preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second stage project to
cover the remainder of Kaduna State is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1099-UNI    Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily with support from both
Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is good and appraisal
objectives are being met and in some cases exceeded. Project unit costs are
some 25 percent above appraisal estimates due to domestic inflation.
There have been problems relating to the timely delivery of fertilizer
supplies which are centrally procured by the Federal Government. Recent
agreements between the Bank and the Government on the streamlining of
fertilizer procurement should help to resolve this problem. The possibility
of a second phase project is being examined.
Loan No. 1103-UNI    Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from the
project component located in Cross Rivers State because of acute problems of
cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. Plans to reallocate the
remaining funds to project components in Anambra and Imo States where physical
project progress is more satisfactory, will depend upon improved counterpart
funding.
Loan No. 1164-UNI    Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. Problems in recruiting intermediate and junior staff continue.
There have been no delays in the provision of local counterpart funds. The
preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second-stage project to
cover the remainder of Bauchi State is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:
US$29.5 million Loan of December 31, 1975;
Effective Date: October 17, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the
Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal
targets have not been met for the smallholder component as a result of
financial and managerial problems. Management has improved recently but
planting targets are behind schedule. Cost overruns are likely to be
substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new states
and due to problems with intermediate and junior staffing. The latter have now
been resolved, but there are problems of local counterpart funding. Appraisal
targets have not been met and substantial cost overruns are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component is progressing well but planting is
lagging behind appraisal targets, although the final target is likely to be
achieved. Problems with estate land acquisition and funding delayed effec-
tiveness and will result in a reduced planted area.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After experiencing some problem of local counterpart funding the
project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project initially made satisfactory physical progress but is
now hampered by inadequate counterpart funding. This may jeopardize the
project if not remedied soon.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project:
US$30 million Loan of June 6, 1976; Effective Date:
March 31, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding towards effectiveness and physical progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60 million
Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first sub-loan has
been processed and approved.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Forestry Plantation Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 5 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: October 1976
(d) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: March 1977
(e)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  April 1, 1978
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: November 10, 1978
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: July 16, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between Federal Government and
Ondo, Ogun and Anambra State Governments (Condition of Disbursement,
para. 45);
(b) Gazetting of Mbanasa as Forest Reserve (Condition of Disbursement for
Anambra State);
(c) Gazetting establishment of Project Management Units (PMUs) and Budget
and Policy Coordinating Committees (BPCCs) for Ondo and Ogun States,
with terms of reference and composition acceptable to the Bank (Condi-
tion of Disbursement for Ondo and Ogun States, para. 41);
(d) Appointment of senior staff for the PMUs and Federal Department of
Forestry with qualifications and experience, and on terms and conditions,
satisfactory to the Bank. Appointment of project managers for Ondo and
Ogun States and silviculturist for Anambra State would be a Condition of
Disbursement (para. 42);
(e) Opening of commercial bank accounts for the PMUs, with initial deposits of
N 0.6 million for each Ondo and Ogun States and N 0.2 million for Anambra
State (Condition of Disbursement, para. 46);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) Ondo, Ogun and Anambra State Governments guarantee overdrafts on commer-
cial bank accounts, up to equivalent of six months' capital requirements
(para. 46);
(g) Stumpage fees from salvaged logs of natural forests and from plantation
pulpwood and sawlogs in Ondo and Ogun States paid into commercial bank
accounts to constitute revolving fund enabling continued planting and
maintenance program (para. 46);
(h) Ondo and Ogun State Governments prepare and submit to Bank for review
and consultation, by not later than March 31, 1980, proposals on formula
for calculating stumpage rates (para. 47); and
(i) Ondo and Ogun State Governments set, by not later than June 30, 1980,
appropriate annual stumpage fees to be charged by the PMUs, according to
formula worked out under (h) (para. 47).






54.                                             S                     .    IA' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRDiS3785R
/                           ttBAAst.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IANR "
-                        ~,s                                            4~.N~2-6-~'-A                                       '~    >
J.; i ;.mg. -                                                                      WA
NiGER               /                 OKOrO                          Kosino    Dau                                                       Dosooso
K.,    Kebb   A-,2         Ka,.,o  NoK- -
/              JNga
D.-~~~~~~N
D-GWbi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
't           -~~~~~ SLtyn'                                                           .
so      5s.nsKAr,eWs.nU,s~      Sos
K t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
j:~~~~~~~~s~~






ISRD 13786
I                                                                                                         I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMBER 1978
~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ N  I G   E  R                                                                                                                K~\~A
SOKOT                                ~
/Xy
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CHIAD
N
__  __  _                                                                        __                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECTR
___________VEGETATION ZONES
W,~~~~~~~~~~~~~___                                                                                                                         De,ived SavaT..
FoReESt
CLIMATIC CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONES                        M-gEqER  fo-St
Ssb-SRdorn   3-40  01 ranfl 0.3   4h -5    200 mNtidiyapto
-- - -     Nortrrenrr Ors,rreo   40-50    0r~!.3.7   <03  <5,    20- ShtlCpIR
SooheleOuie    420         1.-30       1  45     305   -        SteRdrE
CR  40  ER   OR  ITO  -  -                                         Oen~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-ed Saoorr-    50-70    3 5-6.5  0   3-4    60  -.   TemotQSoE  bnoLrarieS
.'LE     20~ECFrest & Sssomp   50-400                                                                                7.0       0   0-2    80          NOE ECOQRCY4FOTER RFAY B CLAYTON
4'                                                                                                   to.~~~~~~~4  .  0                    I?'                                  14'



