DOCUMENS LOAN NUMBER 1679 UNI
Anambra Proj et Agreement
(Forestry Plantation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
and
ANAMBRA STATE Ø       ,    2   /
Dated                          7      1979


﻿I                  .II.  
LOAN NUMBER 1679 UNI
ANAMBRA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIO           OPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ANAMBRA STATE (hereinar ter called Anambra).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-one million dollars ($31,000,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Anambra agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Anambra, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Anambra on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Anambra, inconsideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FD bank account" means the bank account referred to in
Section 2.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(b) "CCF" means Chief Conservator of Forests of Anambra;
(c) "MANR" means Anambra's Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources; and
MEN.                                                  ~~:


﻿-2-
(d) "Parts of the Project" means the Parts of the Project to
be carried out by Anambra under Section 2.01 (a) of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
JA
Section 2.01. (a) Anambra shall carry out Parts A (3), (5),
and B and C (1) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and forestry
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Anambra shall continue to maintain FD in a form and
with membership, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction on the obligations
of Anambra under paragraph (a) above, Anambra shall:
. (i) establish and thereafter maintain with adequate
funds (including an initial deposit of N200,000)
*a bank account to be used by FD exclusively for
payments for goods and services required for the
Project;
(ii) authorize FD to establish overdraft facilities
equivalent to at least six months' capital require-
ments determined on the basis of approved annual
budgets and fully guarantee payment obligations
of FD under the said overdraft facilities; and
(iii) provide in its budgets, and pay to FD at least
three months in advance, quarterly contributions
for the Project based on FD's approved annual
budget.
Section 2.02. (a) Anambra shall employ for the Project a
civil engineer whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Al.-*--                                                        *-'*~


﻿(b) Anambra shall give high priority to recruitment of staff
for the Project and shall take all necessary action promptly to
second to FD any technical or other staff whose secondment FD
may request for the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil woiks to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Anambra undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the icquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by Anambra to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Anambra shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Anambra shall cause FD to furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
its Parts of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Anambra shall: (i) cause FD to maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of its
Parts of the Project (including the cost of said Parts of the
Project and the benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan with
respect to its Parts of the Project, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in its Parts
of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan with respect to said Parts of the Project and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) cause FD to furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall ren-onably request concerning its Parts of the Project, the
cost thereof and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan with
4'.-- - - -II


﻿III1
-4-
respect to said Parts of the Project and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Anambra and
the Bank, Anambra shall cause FD to prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of its
Parts of the Project, the cost of said Parts of the Project and
the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance
by Anambra and the Bank of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) Anambra shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, buildings, property and equip-
ment of FD and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. Anambra shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Anambra Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank.
shall otherwise agree, Anambra shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Anambra Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) Anambra shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its
Parts of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Anambra Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Anambra shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
its Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by Anambra of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Anambra Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. Anambra shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out its Parts of the Project and shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Anambra shall in relation to its Parts of the
Project maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. Anambra shall in relation to its Parts of the
Project cause FD to: (i) have its rccounts and financial 'state-
ments (balance sheets, (if any) statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year to be audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing, principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of such financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such. scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested which shall include a statement as to whether or not the
proceeds of the Loan made available to FD have been used for their
intended purpose; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of FD and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. Anambra shall with the assistance of FDF estab-
lish and thereafter maintain an accounting and management infor-
mation system satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Anambra thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Anambra thereof.


﻿4DIII
-6-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Anambra:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources
Enugu
Anambra State


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Anambra may be taken or executed by
the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources or such other person or persons as the said Permanent
Secretary shall designate in writing, and Anambra shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each. of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized,, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in thp District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
ANAMBRA STATE  P    /
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       ,197j
FOR SECRETARY


