OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS        LOAN NUMER 1679 UNI
Ondo Projeet Agreement
(Forestry Plantation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
and
ONDO STATE
Dated                                  1979
7        .-..


﻿0
LOAN NUMBER 1679 UNI
ONDO PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     L7, 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS.PJC 9~  !,EVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ONDO STATE WereAnafter called Ondo).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereitafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-one million dollars ($31,OO,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Ondo agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Ondo, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Ondo on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Ondo, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth- and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ODPMU" means the Project Management Unit to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement;'
(b) "ODPMU bank account" means the bank account referred to
in Section 2.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(c) "CCF" means the Chief Conservator of Forests of MANR;
(d) "MANR" means Ondo's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources;


﻿-2-
(e) "ODBPCC" means the Budget and Policy Coordinating
Comittee to be established pursuant to Section 2.01 (c) of this
Agreement; and
(f) "Parts of the Project" means the Parts of the Project to
be carried out by Ondo under Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Ondo shall .carry out Parts A (1) through
(4), B and C (1) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
forestry practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Ondo shall establish and thereafter maintain a Project
Management Unit in a form and with membership, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. Further provisions
relating to ODPMU are set forth in Part A of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
(c) Ondo shall through MANR establish a Budget and Policy
Coordinating Committee in a form and with membership, functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. Further provisions
relating to ODBPCC are set forth in Part B of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
(d) Without any limitation or restriction on the obligations
of Ondo under paragraph (a) above, Ondo shall:
(i) establish and thereafter maintain with adequate
funds (including an initial minimum deposit of
N600,000) a commercial bank account to be used by
ODPMU exclusively for payments for goods and
services required for the Project;
(ii) pay into the ODPMV bank account all stumpage fees
collected from salvage logging of natural forest,
plantation pulpwood and sawlogs in the Project
Area and as soon as possible thereafter constitute
the ODPMU bank account into a revolving fund to be


﻿-3-
operated in a form and manner satisfactory to the
Bank to enable an adequate planting and maintenance
program to be sustained in the Project Area;
(iii) until the constitution of the revolving fund,
authorize ODPMU to establish overdraft facilities
equivalent to at least six months' capital require-
ments determined on the basis of approved annual
budgets and fully guarantee payment obligations of
ODPMU under the said overdraft facilities; and
(iv) provide in its budgets, and pay to ODPMU at least
three months in advance, quarterly contributions
for the Project based on ODPMU's approved annual
budget.
Section 2.02. (a) Ondo shall employ for the Project the
following staff whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, namely, a Project Manager, senior
forester, chief engineer, road/clearing engineer, workshop engi-
neer, chief accountant and farm supervisor.
(b) Ondo shall ensure that: (i) its MANR gives high priority
to recruitment of staff for ODPMU and that its MANR takes all
necessary action promptly to second to ODPMU any technical or
other staff whose secondment ODPMU may request; and (ii) any
recruitment of staff described in paragraph (a) above shall be
carried out in accordance with the procedures established for
ongoing Bank-financed projects in Nigeria or through consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Ondo undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by Ondo to replace or repair such goods.


﻿(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Ondo shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Ondo shall cause ODPMU to furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
its Parts of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Ondo shall: (i) cause ODPMU to maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of its
Parts of the Project (including the cost of said Parts of the
Project and the benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan with
respect to its Parts of the Project, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in its Parts
of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan with respect to said Parts of the Project and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) cause ODPMU to
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning its Parts of the
Project, the cost thereof and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
with respect to said Parts of the Project and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Ondo and the
Bank, Ondo shall cause ODPMU to prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of its
Parts of the Project, the cost of said Parts of the Project and
the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance
by Ondo and the Bank of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) Ondo shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine              A
all plants, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment
of ODPMU and any relevant records and documents.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06.. Ondo shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Ondo Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Ondo shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Ondo Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) Ondo shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its
Parts of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Ondo Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Ondo shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
its Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by Ondo of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Ondo Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. Ondo shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out its Parts of *the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Ondo shall in relation to its Parts of the
Project maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. Ondo shall cause ODPMU to: (i) have its ac-
counts and financial statements (balance sheets, (if any) state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accepta-
ble to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said


﻿-6-1
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested which shall include a statement as to whether
or not the proceeds of the Loan made available to ODPMU have been
used for their intended purpose; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of ODPMU and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Ondo shall with the assistance of FDF establish
and thereafter maintain a management information system satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) Ondo shall prepare in consultation with FDF
44   4'/and send to the Bankino later than March 31, 1980 for the Bank's
4i(a1 review and comments proposals setting out a formula for calculat-
ing the stumpage rates to be used for salvage logging of natural
forest, gmelina pulpwood and sawlogs in the Project Area to ensure
an optimum financial rate of return on forest plantation invest-
ments in the Project Area which in any event shall not be less
than 11% in real terms.
(b) Ondo shall cause to be established no later than
June 30, 1980, a rate of stumpage fees in accordance witn para-
graph (a) above, said fees to be collected annually by ODPMU in
*the Project Area and shall review such rate of stumpage fees from
time to time.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Ondo thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify Ondo thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.U.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Ondo:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources
PMB 713
Akure
Ondo State
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under


﻿-8-
this Agreement on behalf of Ondo may be taken or executed by the
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
or such other person or persons as the said Permanent Secretary
shall designate in writing, and Ondo shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
ONDO STATE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE
Part A:   Ondo Project Management Unit
1.   ODPMU shall be responsible for the day-to-day management
and technical operation of the Ondo's Parts of Project.
2.   ODPMU shall be headed by a Project Manager responsible to the
CCF.
3.   (1) ODPMU's duties shall include:
(a) execution of the Project in Ondo;
(b) preparation of annual budgets and cash flows
for approval by ODBPCC;
(c) operation of the bank account to be opened under
Section 2.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(d) control and operation of the Project's revolving
fund;
(e) recruitment of staff;
(f) advertising, negotiating, inviting tenders for
civil works, supply of goods and services;
(g) preparation of reimbursement claI   for transmittal
to the Bank; and
(h) preparation of quarterly and annual reports for
transmittal to ODBPCC, the Borrower and the Bank.
(2) ODPMU shall in carrying out the Project follow guide-
lines laid down by the Bank and policies decided by
ODBPCC in consultation with the CCF.
(3) ODPMU shall prepare quarterly cash flow statements for
transmission to ODBPCC and the CCF. ODPMU shall send to
the Planning, Budgeting and Monitoring Division (PBMD)
of MANR cash flow statements indicating any changes in
requirements for funds from Ondo which result from
expected changes in expenditures and inflow anticipated
from other sources. ODPMU's Project Manager shall be


﻿-10-
authorized to make proposed expenditures 3 weeks after
the dispatch of such statements to PBMD unless otherwise
informed by ODBPCC.
(4) ODPMU shall operate the Project's revolving fund with
due regard to project fund allocations from collected
stumpage fees agreed by ODBPCC.
(5) ODPMU shall consult the CCF in the recruitment of junior
staff and obtain the approval of ODBPCC before recruit-
ing any senior staff.
(6) ODPMU shall carry out its duties relating to tenders
after consultation with the CCF. ODPMU may on its own
enter into contracts valued at less than 30,000 Naira.
It may enter into contracts valued at 30,000 Naira or
more only with the prior approval of ODBPCC.
(7) At least four months before the beginning of each fiscal
year, ODPMU's management shall send ODPMU's proposed
annual budgets as approved by ODBPCC to FDF, MANR and
the Bank.
Part B:   Ondo Budget and Policy Coordinating Committee
1.   ODBPCC's duties shall include:
(a). review of and recommendations on Project-related agri-
cultural development policies in Ondo, including poli-
cies related to forestry tariffs;
(b) approval of annual project budgets and cash flow state-
ments; ensuring availability for the Project of funds
from Ondo, approval of auditors; ODPMU bank account;
pricing of agricultural inputs and farm interest rates;
(c)  transfer and secondment of senior project staff, their
terms and conditions of employment and the appointment
of consultants (including consultancy firms);
(d) award with the advice of the Project Manager of con-
tracts valued at 30,000 Naira or more in accordance with
the procurement procedures of Ondo but subject in every
case to the provisions governing procurement of goods
and services set out or referred to in Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement; and


﻿- 11
(e) coordination and integration of Project activities and
institutions.
2.   Permanent Secretary, MANR or his representative shall be the
chairman of ODBPCC. ODBPCC shall meet not less frequently
than once in every four months. The ODPMU's Project Manager
may request a meeting of ODBPCC whenever he considers this
necessary.
3.   ODBPCC's membership shall normally comprise:
(i) Permanent Secretary, MANR - Chairman
(ii) Chief Agricultural Planning Officer - Secretary
(iii) Chief Agricultural Officer
(iv) Chief Agricultural Engineer
(v) Chief Conservator of Forests
(vi) Representative, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development
(vii) Project Manager, ODPMU
(viii) Project Managers, Other Bank-financed Projects
(ix) Representative, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  , 9     day of.      ,197.
FOR SECRETARY
i'


