Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13049
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 2385-GU)
MAY 10, 1994
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit=Quetzal= 100 cents
Average Exchange Rate
1984                 US$                    1.45
1985                 US$                    2.63
1986                 US$                    2.86
1987                  US$                   2.70
1988                  US$                   2.64
1989                 US$                    2.85
1990                  US$                   4.51
1991                 US$                    5.03
1992                  US$                   5.18
1993 August           US$                   5.74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
One Hectare (ha)                        =10,000 square meters
Metric Ton (mt)                         =2,200 pounds
Metric Ton (mt)                         =1,000 kg
Kilometer (km)                          =0.6215 miles
Kilometer (km)                          =1,000 meters
Cubic Meter (m3)                        = 1,000 liters
Liter                                   =1,000 milliliters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AT&T                      -American Telephone and Telegraph Company
CABEI                     -Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CPI                       -Consumer Price Index
DGCT                      -Direcci6n General de Correos y Telegrafos
(General Directorate for Mail and Telegraph)
DGRT                      -Direcci6n General de Radiodifusi6n y Televisi6n
(General Directorate for Radio and Television)
ENTEL                     -Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones de Chile
(National Telecommunications Company of Chile)
ERR                       -Economic Rate of Return
GDP                       -Gross Domestic Product
GUATEL                    -Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones
(National Telecommunications Company)
ICB                       -International Competitive Bidding
IDB                       -Inter-American Development Bank
ITU                       -International Telecommunications Union
PABX                      -Private Branch Exchange
PCR                       -Project Completion Report
SOE                       -Statement of Expenditures
UHF                       -Ultra High Frequency
VHF                       -Very High Frequency
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Guatemala
Tlhird Telecommunications Project (Loan 2385-GU)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Guatemala - Third Telecommunications
Project (Loan 2385-GU)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II
provided by the Borrower highlights the Bank's caution in setting physical targets as well as the impact
of security problems with respect to the rural component.
The project was the third in the sector (previous loans had been made in 1971 and 1975
respectively). It aimed at: (i) supporting balanced sector expansion; (ii) improving the efficiency of
GUATEL, the state telecommunication utility, through institution-building (including training,
organizational and systems improvements, and tariff studies); and (iii) enhancing financial transfers from
the sector to the Government. Only the latter objective was substantially achieved. Investments were
greatly delayed by, inter alia, high management turnover in GUATEL, procurement problems and poor
contractor performance; as a result, connections grew at a rate of only 3% per year between 1984 and
1987, instead of the 17% planned.
In spite of some achievements (e.g., a successful twinning arrangement with Chile),
institutional progress was modest overall and did not lead to the expected improvements in tariff policy,
operational efficiency and quality of service. GUATEL's high tariffs made possible by its monopoly
position -- whiclh enabled it to comply with all financial covenants -- may have contributed to this
disappointing performance as they insulated the company from demands by the Government for
improved productivity and service. In retrospect, the experience of this project validates the Bank's
recent policy decision to shift its emphasis in the sector towards broader issues such as sector structure
and private sector participation.
Accordingly, the outcome of the project is rated as marginally unsatisfactory and its
institutional impact as modest. The sustainability of the investments funded by the Bank is however
considered as likely, given customers' willingness to pay the high average tariffs prevailing in the
country. The Completion Report is thorough and informative. No audit is planned at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onty in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .          ..................................................... i
Evaluation Summary  ..........................................    ii-v
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Project Identity ............................................   1
2.       Background ..............................................1 
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                                                      3
4.       Project Preparation, Design and Organization .........................  4
Project Size, Loan Amount and GUATEL's Implementation Capacity  ... .. 4
Project Design  ....................................                                       5
Institutional Reform ....................................  5
Procurement.                                                                               5
Disbursements.                                                                             5
5.  Project Implementation.                                                                                  6
Project Cost.                                                                              7
Procurement.                                                                               7
Disbursements.                                                                             7
6. Project Results.                                                                                          8
Physical Results.                                                                          8
Studies.                                                                                   9
Financial Situation .10
Audit Compliance .10
Rate of Return  ......................................   10
7.       Project Sustainability  .......................................    11
8.      Bank Performance .........................................   11
9.       Borrower Performance  ......................................   11
10.     Project Relationship ........................................   12
11.   Consulting Services ............                                                                      12
12.     Project Documentation and Data ................................   13
13.     Lessons Learned ..........................................   13



CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
Page No.
PART II PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ... ...  15
PART m  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................  20
ANNEXES
1. Related Bank Loans .20
2. Project Timetable .21
3.     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements ....         ......... 22
4.     Project Cost and Financing  ..............................  23
(a) Project Costs and Financing  ......................  23
(b) Project Financing .............................  24
(c) Loan Allocation by Category ......................  25
5.     Status of Covenants ...................................  26
6.     Use of Bank Resources .................................  27
(a) Staff Inputs  ...............................   27
(b) Mission Data ................................  27
7.     Project Results ......................................  28
(a) Telephone and Telex Facilities .....................  28
(b) Physical Targets of the Project .....................  29
(c) Studies .31
8.     GUATEL: Forecast and Actual Income Statements 1984-1991 .32
9.     GUATEL: Forecast and Actual Sources and Applications of Funds
1984-1991 .33
10.    GUATEL: Forecast and Actual Balance Sheets 1984-1991 .34
11.    GUATEL: Financial Indicators 1984-1991 .35
12.    GUATEL: Selected Performance Indicators 1984-1992 .36
13.  GUATEL: Financial Rate of Return.                                           37
14.    GUATEL: Tariff Evolution of the Telephone Services ....         .........  38
15.    GUATEL: Demand for Telephone Service .....................  39



i
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRI) TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385 - GU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third
Telecommunications Project in Guatemala for which Loan 2385-GU in the
amount of US$30.0 million equivalent was approved in March 1984. The
loan was closed on June 30, 1992, four years after the original Closing Date.
The last disbursement was made on July 7, 1992. The Bank canceled the
undisbursed balance of US$2.6 million (9% of the loan amount) on July 31,
1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy
Operations Division, Country Department II, of the Latin America and
Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and
the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR started in November 1992 and is based,
inter alia, on the data obtained during a mission to Guatemala in December
1992, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements,
supervision reports, progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, interviews with Bank staff and Guatemalan Government
officials and internal Bank memoranda.






ii
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385 - GU)
EVALUATION SUMIYIARY
Objectives
1.          Loan 2385-GU was the third loan to support the development of the
telecommunications sector in Guatemala and to finance a self-contained, high priority part of
GUATEL's 1984-87 investment program. The project was designed to support a balanced
development of local, long distance, national and international telecommunications services in
urban and rural areas. Specific objectives were to: (a) help design and implement
organizational and management improvements in GUATEL in order to double the pace of the
expansion of its services over the project period and to efficiently maintain and operate a
greatly expanded telecommunications system; (b) strengthen the participation of the private
sector while ensuring system compatibility and performance; (c) promote substantial transfers
from GUATEL to the central government; (d) strengthen GUATEL's investment planning
capacity and establish tariffs to encourage efficiency; and (e) help finance GUATEL's 1984-
87 investment program, together with suppliers, the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB)
and the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) (paras. 3.01-3.02).
Implementation Experience
2.          Approved in March 1984, the closing date for the loan to GUATEL was
postponed to June 1992, more than four years after the expected date of project completion.
About US$2.6 million in loan funds were canceled. The project suffered delays from the
start of project implementation despite consideration of negative experiences under the two
earlier projects and the efforts made by the Bank to ensure that bids had been invited for all
major procurement activities prior to Board presentation since that had been an important
source of delay under the earlier operations. The project took place during a time of major
economic and political change in Guatemala. The period 1982-90 was characterized by
macro-instability largely due to external shocks, unsustainable fiscal deficits, and
accommodating monetary policy. Civil conflict in the country was prominent and directly
affected project areas. Three different administrations assumed power during the project
period (1982, 1985, 1991), causing in turn changes in GUATEL's top management and key
higher level staff. Project implementation was also adversely affected by the deep economic
and financial crisis of the late 1980s and the placement of Guatemala by the Bank in non-
accrual status from July 1990 to November 1992 due to arrears in debt service payments.



ii
3.          Specific factors which slowed project execution were shortages in foreign
exchange which delayed equipment delivery, poor performance on the part of GUATEL and
contractors in line installation which consistently fell behind defined targets and persistent
procurement related problems. The actual project cost of US$145. 1 million was below the
appraisal estimate by US$29.6 million which was mainly the result of lower prices for some
components. However, the prolonged implementation period and technological change which
took place make it difficult to assess changes in price and quantity among components.
CABEI financing was not accepted by GUATEL as its terms were judged to be unattractive
and CABEI's proposed component was completed with GUATEL's own resources (paras.
5.01-5.05).
Results
4.          The project has been successful in expanding and modernizing the
telecommunications systems in Guatemala City and the provincial towns. The objective of
increasing the pace of expansion of services almost two fold was not fully achieved within
the original project period and confirmed the correctness of the Bank's preoccupation with
GUATEL's implementation capacity. Although the Bank hoped to address some of
GUATEL's shortcomings through the use of private contractors, their participation did not
markedly improve the prospects for quick project completion due to their inexperience and
GUATEL's inexperience in supervising them as mentioned earlier. However, the project's
impact on stimulating and supporting private entrepreneurship which took place in the areas
of line installation, system turn-key operations and in the establishment and expansion of the
cellular telephone network should be considered successful.
5.          Improvements to GUATEL's structure and operations were more limited,
hampered in part by several management changes which diluted the continuity of reforms
introduced in 1987 and the company's financial success as a result of the 1990 tariff
adjustment which reduced its incentive to increase efficiency through further organizational
reform. The objective of restoring substantial transfers to the central government was met as
Q 207 million (US$74 million equivalent) was transferred over the 1984-90 period compared
with Q 206 million expected at appraisal. Transfers continued to increase in 1991 when they
amounted to Q 182 million (US$36 million equivalent). GUATEL's investment planning was
strengthened and the tariff structure, which still subsidizes residential users, was modified
taking into account many of the findings of the tariff study carried out under the project.
The overall project's final economic rate of return (ERR) has been estimated at 6%
compared with 35 % at appraisal. An analysis of the Bank's subproject, including
complementary works yields an estimated ERR of 17% (paras. 6.01-6.09).
Sustainability
6.          Physical facilities and equipment that have been incorporated into the system
under the project are functioning properly and there is no evidence that they will not be
sustained during their useful lifetime period. In the area of line installation capabilities,



iv
GUATEL correctly gave up the approach of self-reliance sponsored by the project and
started contracting out network expansion on a turnkey basis. Use of private contractors
under the project is expected to continue and be expanded as the private sector plays a
greater role in assisting the sector to meet the demand for rapidly growing services and
evolving technological changes. Institutional changes in organization, pricing policy and
information systems, to the extent they took place, are sustainable but have not eliminated
many of the causes of inefficiency in a public utility. Monopolistic pricing has permitted
GUATEL to become more financially sound (and make increasingly large transfers to the
central government) but may have acted as a buffer in undertaling more radical restructuring
of the sector, such as privatization, primarily as a result of concern over the loss of an
important source of fiscal revenues (para. 7.01).
Fmdings and Lessons Learned
7.          The Bank's preoccupation at appraisal with GUATEL's implementation
capacity was well-founded in hindsight but the judgement that led to a sharp reduction in the
scope of GUATEL's investment program, and subsequently of the project, did not produce
sufficient skepticism regarding the setting of the project implementation schedule at three and
a half years, which was less than half the time of actual execution. The experience of the
previous two projects and the Bank's own historical disbursement profiles should have been
used as a basis for establishing the project implementation schedule (paras. 4.02-4.07).
8.          Doubts about the need for Bank participation in the sector expressed internally
in the Bank early in the project cycle were somewhat premature and are more valid today.
GUATEL's investments are currently, in large part, expected to be financed through supplier
and export credit and its own funds. An indirect outcome of the project has been
GUATEL's decision in 1992 to adopt a turn-key approach for expanding its telephone
network in the aftermath of the lengthy and costly (in terms of opportunity cost) delays in
implementation of the Third Telecommunications Project. Given the above factors, a guiding
principle for future Bank involvement in the telecommunications sector in Guatemala should
be to limit it to mainly technical assistance for further sectoral reforms, such as in the areas
of competition and privatization (paras. 4.03 and 6.01).
9.          In the same vein, the results achieved under this project confirm the
correctness of the Bank's current greater emphasis on sectoral policy reform and institutional
strengthening as against mostly technical project issues. While most physical results were
achieved, the project made only modest gains in strengthening GUATEL's operations and
improving its efficiency owing to continual management changes in GUATEL but also, and
perhaps more importantly, to GUATEL's substantially improved financial situation which has
insulated the company from demands for improved performance mainly because of its
contribution to Government finances (paras. 6.02-6.07).
10.         As demonstrated by the project, the use of an overall ERR for time slice
investments should be avoided as uneconomic investments can often be shrouded in an



V
overall acceptable ERR or economic investments be considered uneconomic due to the
negative impact of other unsuccessful elements of an investment program. Allowing for the
evaluation of separate groupings of coherent investments would force the issue of whether
certain investments are justifiable (para. 6.09).
11.         The experience with technical assistance under the project highlighted both its
flaws and successes. The lack of adequately defined terms of reference for consultants at the
outset of the project, which have now become more standard practice, and sufficient
counterpart staff were both ingredients which limited the effectiveness of some technical
assistance activities. The twinning arrangement with an experience Latin American utility
company proved a useful alternative at relatively low cost. The provision of training by
equipment vendors was also effective. Both would be replicable tools (paras. 6.05, 6.06 and
11.01).
12.         Experience with procurement under the project underlines the importance of
taking into account in project design Borrower capacity in determining procurement
arrangements, particularly in defining numerous bidding packages especially when items are
highly interdependent and could be grouped more economically. Problems between local
procurement laws and regulations which affected this project have confirmed the importance
of the Bank's practice to carry out country procurement assessments and address differences
specifically within the legal documents for the project (paras. 4.06, 5.01 and 5.04).
13.         Lastly, project ownership proved to be an important element for successful
implementation as demonstrated by GUATEL which continued with and concluded the
project during a prolonged period of suspension of disbursements and limited Bank
involvement (para. 9.01).



GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMIMUNCATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:           Third Telecommunications Project
Loan No.:               2385-GU
Amount:                  US$30 million equivalent
Year of Approval:        1984
Borrower:                GUATEL
RVP Unit:                Latin America and Caribbean Region
Department II, Infrastructure and
Energy Operations Division
Country:                Guatemala
Sector:                 Infrastructure
Subsector:              Telecommunications
2.          Background.
2.01        At the time of preparation of the Third Telecommunications Project (Ln. 2385-
GU), telecommunications services in Guatemala were operated by a public company, Empresa
Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL), and two departments in the Ministry of
Communications, the Direcci6n General de Correos y Telegrafos (DGCT) and the Direccion
General de Radiodifusi6n y Televisi6n (DGRT). GUATEL, was established in 1971 as a state-
owned, autonomous and commercially-oriented enterprise responsible for the maintenance and
operation of all public telecommunications services except domestic telegraph, and management
of the radio spectrum allocation. According to its charter, GUATEL has full authority to
determine its own development policy, tariffs, annual budget, investment program, borrowing,
organization and staffing. However, in practice it seeks the opinion of the Ministry of Finance
in foreign borrowings and investments, and of the Planning Ministry on tariff changes and
investment plans.
2.02        Bank involvement in the telecommunications sector in Guatemala began in 1971
with a first loan (Ln. 792-GU) of US$16 million equivalent which financed the provision and
extension of local, long distance and international telecommunications facilities (Annex 1). The



2
project was satisfactorily completed in December 1979' despite a 22% overrun and substantial
implementation delays due to the need to revise the investment program following the earthquake
in 1976. An important aspect of this initial Bank involvement was a major reorganization of the
telecommunications sector, which resulted in the merger of two existing entities and the
establishment of GUATEL's first major capital works program. The Bank's second loan (Ln.
1104-GU) of US$26 million equivalent, co-financed with the Central American Bank for
Economic Integration (CABEI), was approved in 1975 and financed further improvement and
expansion of telecommunications services. Project implementation was delayed significantly due
to the inability of suppliers to meet deadlines and GUATEL's slow pace of line installation. The
project was completed in November 19852. The principal outcome of those projects was to assist
Guatemala in establishing a modern long distance exchange in Guatemala City to link the principal
areas of the country and in expanding local telephone services in Guatemala City and in a number
of provincial towns, creating a financial base for further development of telecommunications
facilities.
2.03        In the 1978-82 national development plan, the Government set out long term
objectives for the telecommunications sector which included: meeting all existing and future
demand, modernizing existing services and introducing new ones, and keeping operations
profitable and capable of generating funds needed for investment. A specific fiscal objective was
set out in the law establishing GUATEL which requires that 45% of its adjusted net income be
paid to the government. With the assistance of the International Telecommunications Union
(ITU), GUATEL prepared a master plan for the development of telecommunications in Guatemala
over the period 1981-2000 in four five year stages. The master plan was overly optimistic from
the start in terms of implementation capacity and financing availability and the first stage targets
were significantly scaled back at the recommendation of the Bank.
2.04        The Third Telecommunications Project was developed to support the first stage of
the Government's master plan and funded, in large part, GUATEL's 1984-87 investment
program. Although the project contained an institutional strengthening component for GUATEL
in the areas of organization and financial management, it was designed as a traditional investment
project, characteristic of other Bank projects at that time, with little policy and institutional
content. The project took place during a time of major economic and political change in
Guatemala. The period 1982-90 was characterized by high inflation, a growing public sector
deficit and continued devaluation of the quetzal. Three different administrations were in place
during the project period (1982, 1985, 1991), causing in turn changes in GUATEL's top
management and key higher level staff.
2.05        Project implementation was adversely affected by the economic crisis of the late
1980s and the suspension of all Bank loan disbursements to Guatemala in March 1990 which
1. PCR No. 2908 (Loan 792-GU). March 21, 1980.
2. PCR No. 6493 (Loan 1 104-GUJ. November 12, 1986.



3
lasted more than two years due to arrears in debt service payments. Although Guatemala had
enjoyed high economic growth during the 1960s and 1970s, this was reversed in the 1980s as a
consequence of the distortions introduced through an import-substitution industrialization strategy,
exacerbated by adverse external economic factors and increased civil conflict. Following the
changeover to civilian Government from military rule in 1985, the Government initiated actions
to restore macroeconomic stability, including eliminating many price controls, simplifying and,
in 1988, unifying the exchange rate system, and rationalizing import tariff levels. Fiscal policy
loosened, however, when the tax reform of 1987 failed to increase revenues beyond 1988 and
expenditures continued expanding until 1989. Inflation rapidly accelerated to 60% and the overall
public sector deficit grew to 4.7% of GDP in 1990 and was financed mainly through Central Bank
credit and arrears to external creditors, including the Bank. The Bank placed Guatemala in non-
accrual status in July 1990. The Serrano administration, which took office in January 1991,
embarked on a program to stabilize the economy and lay the basis for medium-term growth.
Substantial progress in terms of stabilization was achieved, without adversely affecting economic
growth. Inflation fell to 10% and the overall public sector deficit dropped to 1.2% of GDP by
the end of 1991. Guatemala cleared its arrears to the Bank in November 1992.
3.          Project Objectives and Description.
3.01        The objectives of the project were to: (a) help design and implement organizational
and management improvements in GUATEL to double the pace of the expansion of its services
over the project period and to efficiently maintain and operate a greatly expanded
telecommunications system; (b) strengthen the participation of the private sector while ensuring
system compatibility and performance; (c) promote substantial transfers from GUATEL to the
central government; (d) strengthen GUATEL's investment planning capacity and establish tariffs
to encourage efficiency; and (e) help finance GUATEL's 1984-87 investment program, together
with suppliers, the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) and CABEI.
3.02        The project was to provide for a balanced and integrated development of local, long
distance national and international services in urban and rural areas and included the following
subprojects to be carried out independently: (i) extension of rural services through the installation
of about 8,000 exchange lines, and provision of primary telecommunications facilities to
communities without such services partially financed by a US$18 million loan from the IDB; (ii)
extension of the Central American international network and provision of a new international
exchange in Guatemala City partially financed by a US$26 million loan from CABEI; and (iii)
a subproject to be financed by the Bank and suppliers credit (Annex 4.B) which comprised the
following:
(a) the installation of:
a total of about 109,600 additional lines of local exchange equipment (79,000 lines
in Guatemala City, 5,000 lines in Quetzaltenango and a total of 25,600 lines in 23
provincial towns), with associated cable and 3,500 public call office telephones;



4
*     eleven microwave and seven UHF/VHF systems with about 400 additional long
distance circuits;
*     a national long distance exchange in Guatemala City;
*     computer equipment to enhance GUATEL's data processing capacity;
*     training equipment;
(b)   the construction of buildings to house equipment; and
(c)   the retention of foreign experts (7 man-years) to assist GUATEL in improving
administration, planning, management and finance.
Eventually, GUATEL decided not to pursue financing from CABEI as its financial terms were
judged to be unattractive and GUATEL financed the component from its own resources.
4.          Project Preparation, Design and Organization.
4.01        A Bank mission identified the project in April 1981, and its principal components
were prepared by GUATEL during 1981 based on feasibility studies and the master plan (Annex
2). Although project preparation was initiated in late 1981 and appraisal took place in February
1982, the project was only approved by the Board in March 1984 with delays attributed to
inadequate and inconsistent information provided by GUATEL, the replacement of GUATEL's
management as a result of a change in government and the additional time necessary for bid
preparation and advance procurement.
4.02        Project Size, Loan Amount and GUATEL's Implementation Capacity. Both
the project size and the loan amount were scaled back during project preparation. GUATEL's
proposed line installation program was expected to increase the number of main connections at
a 25% annual rate, a figure that had not been attained over a five-year period by any other Bank
borrower. The Bank rightly insisted on downsizing the project by requiring GUATEL not to
build new civil works and to reduce the program by one third, from 167,000 to 109,600 lines to
be installed in the 1982-86 period. Based on this modification, the total project cost was estimated
at US$174.7 million, of which US$132.7 million equivalent (76%) represented the direct and
indirect foreign exchange component. The Bank loan, amounting to US$30 million, was
estimated to cover about 17% of total project costs.
4.03        The question of Bank financing for the project and the size of the Bank loan were
heavily debated within the Bank during project preparation based on the belief that GUATEL
would have access to supplier credits to meet its equipment needs and that Bank financial support
was not essential. In the end Bank support was found justified primarily on its contribution to
improving GUATEL's management and organization, strengthening GUATEL's finances through
improvements in operations and tariff adjustment to ensure the continuation of substantial net



5
transfers to be used in other sectors less capable of mobilizing domestic resources and in helping
GUATEL attract supplier credits. Nevertheless, the originally envisaged loan amount of US$60
million was reduced to US$30 million to be replaced from supplier and export credit sources.
4.04        Project Design. The design of the project was satisfactory overall and in line with
the Government's policies and objectives for the telecommunications sector. The project was also
timely as it played an important role in shaping GUATEL's investment program in the first phase
of the Government's telecommunications development plan. A least cost solution for the design
of the technical alternatives was adopted and the project introduced digital switching technology
that was expected to result in a reduction of real operating costs. The project also was formulated
to foster the participation of private entrepreneurs in the sector, primarily through contracting out
line installation which was appropriate given the experience of the second Bank-financed project
and GUATEL's limited line installation capacity.
4.05        Institutional Reform. At the time of project appraisal GUATEL was considered
satisfactorily organized and managed at its existing level of operations. The principal areas of
concem were: (i) GUATEL's ability under the existing organizational structure to handle a greatly
enhanced level of operations as a result of the project; (ii) the need to restore transfers to the
central government, which had been suspended, and reverse the erosion of tariffs in real terms
because of inflation through adjustments to tariffs; and (iii) deficiencies in GUATEL's financial
management, accounting and information management systems. Approximately seven man years
of technical assistance were included in the project to provide GUATEL with the necessary
expertise to restructure and improve its operations. GUATEL and the Government agreed to a
number of actions before Board presentation which included increases by 50 percent of the
connection fee charges and billing to about 1,000 government officials who had been exempted
from charges, as well as new measures to reduce GUATEL operating costs. GUATEL's
commitment to a tariff study and preparation of an action plan to implement it were included as
dated covenants in the legal documents. An annual financial rate of return covenant was
established to ensure GUATEL's financial soundness.
4.06        Procurement. Equipment purchases were grouped in packages to be procured by
ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. In order to avoid the impact of procurement delays
which had affected the earlier two Bank projects, the Bank presented the loan to the Board of
Directors after all bids had been invited. Multiple lots and contracts with highly interdependent
items while designed to obtain the lowest price and provide procurement opportunities for
suppliers were a factor in project delay and exceeded GUATEL's administrative capacity.
4.07        Disbursements. Although the first two telecommunications operations were
disbursed in eight and ten years, respectively, the Bank shortened the disbursement profile for the
Third Telecommunications Project despite that experience and the historical Bank profile for all
Bank operations in the sector over the FY70-80 period. It was clear that the project team had
hoped to address early the procurement problems which had been found to be obstacles under the
first two projects and shorten the execution period through advance procurement and the



6
preparation of bidding documents prior to Board presentation. Unfortunately such optimism was
unfounded and disbursements from the start were badly off track (Annex 3).
5.          Project Implementation
5.01        The loan to GUATEL was approved in March 1984 and made effective in June
1984. The project was scheduled to be completed in three and a half years but actual completion
took more than twice as long. The Bank extended the original loan closing date of June 30, 1988
three times for a cumulative extension of fours years until June 30, 1992. The last disbursement
was made in July 1992 (Annex 2). The main reasons for the delays were:
*Inadequate foreign exchange and financing. The Government delayed the release of
foreign exchange (June 1985) to pay the insurance fees on the supplier credits for the
switching equipment, which was a key element of the project, postponing the effectiveness
of the letter of credits for two years. The suspension of Bank disbursements during 1990-
92 also impacted project implementation negatively but to a lesser extent since technical
assistance and most equipment contracts paid through letters of credit were exempted from
the suspension;
eGUATEL and Contractor/supplier performance. As had been anticipated at appraisal
GUATEL's capacity was inadequate to meet the specific targets for line installation. The
performance of private contractors was initially less than satisfactory according to
GUATEL due to the inexperience of newly established firms staffed by former GUATEL
employees, poorly designed contracts which gave GUATEL little leverage to push firms
to meet agreed deadlines and GUATEL's inadequate supervision. One contractor
responsible for installing 18,000 lines and the intemal plant in 15 months, installed only
10% of the target in 12 months. Installation of switching equipment did not start until
1987. Another contractor failed to construct an access road; hence materials for installing
the transmission network had to be carried by helicopter or mule over a 20-km distance;
*Procurement. The Bank's procurement rules and guidelines were adequately followed
although poor quality bidding documents and conflicts between Bank procurement
procedures and local legislation were a cause of delay. Some domestic contractors went
bankrupt when their cost overruns caused by domestic inflation were not recognized.
Under the same policy, during a two year period GUATEL did not acknowledge higher
prices of copper to contractors, affecting the timely provision of cable for the project; and
sOthers. Lack of sites due to poor land planning, delayed right-of-way purchases, and
guerrilla activity also prevented access to road construction. Changes in management and
turnover of project staff with each new administration led to review, and in some cases,
to cancellation of procurement documents and unsuitable coordination of contractor
schedules.



7
5.02        During implementation, the project design experienced minor changes which were
appropriate and for which loan proceeds were reallocated. They included: (a) purchase and
installation of a data packet-switching network, at a US$ 3.0 million cost. The network was
financed by loan proceeds originally allocated for computer equipment which was bought later
with GUATEL's own resources; and (b) elimination of the telex component due to declining
demand for telex services that were being replaced by fax service.
5.03        Project Cost. The total actual cost of the project reached US$145. 1 million
(Annex 4.A). Of the total cost, US$27.4 million equivalent (19 %) was financed by the Bank,
including US$0.4 million of front-end-fees, US$16.9 million equivalent (12%) by the IDB,
US$53.3 million equivalent (37%) by suppliers, and the remainder US$47.5 million equivalent
(33 %) was financed by GUATEL. CABEI's proposed financing was replaced by GUATEL's own
resources (para. 3.02). This represents a US$29.6 million lower cost than indicated in the
appraisal estimate, which was mainly the result of lower prices of equipment for some
components. Given the long implementation period and technological improvements which have
reduced some costs it is difficult to judge accurately the final project costs in terms of changes in
quantities and in prices in comparison with the SAR estimates. The analysis is complicated more
by GUATEL's practice of using inputs purchased for the project (e.g. cable) in other works,
replacing them later.
5.04        Procurement. Procurement-related problems contributed to delays in project
implementation in spite of GUATEL's experience under the first two loans and the Bank's efforts
to ensure that bids were invited prior to Board presentation. The heavy administrative and
procurement constraints imposed by the Contralor(a de Cuentas was a significant factor in
continued problems as GUATEL had only limited success in having its interpretation prevail over
that of the Contralorfa. The complex procurement process, while aiming at obtaining lower
prices, and in general at permitting greater access by Bank member countries' firms to Bank-
financed contracts, strained GUATEL's coordination and administrative capacity by dividing
highly interdependent components among many lots and contracts. Examples include the award
of the transmission component for one route to five different vendors and the utilization of
seventeen different contractors for the external plant component.
5.05        Disbursements. Disbursements took twice as long as envisaged at appraisal and
the unused loan balance of US$2.6 million was cancelled in July 1992. By the end of the third
year of implementation when all loan proceeds were expected to be disbursed only 27% were
actually disbursed. The project's disbursement performance was somewhat slower than the
average performance of LAC projects; 81 months were required to disburse 90 % of loan proceeds
as compared to 71 months on average for LAC projects'.
3.    'A Retrospective Review of Telecommunications Lending". OED. November 1991. This study was used as a
benchmark (average indicators of Bank telecommunications projects signed between 1967 and 1989) for assessing
GUATEL's project performance.



8
6.          Project Results
6.01        The project has been successful in expanding and modernizing the
telecommunications systems in Guatemala City and the provincial towns. The objective of
increasing the pace of expansion of services almost two fold was not fully achieved within the
original project period and confirmed the correctness of the Bank's preoccupation with
GUATEL's implementation capacity. Although the Bank hoped to address some of GUATEL's
shortcomings through the use of private contractors, their participation did not markedly improve
the prospects for quick project completion due to their inexperience and GUATEL's inexperience
in supervising them as mentioned earlier. However, the project's impact on stimulating and
supporting private entrepreneurship which took place in the areas of line installation, system turn-
key operations and in the establishment and expansion of the cellular telephone network should
be considered successful.
6.02        Improvements to GUATEL's structure and operations were more limited,
hampered in part by several management changes which diluted the continuity of reforms
introduced in 1987 and the company's financial success as a result of the 1990 tariff adjustment
which reduced its incentive to increase efficiency through further organizational reform. The
objective of restoring substantial transfers to the central government was met as Q 207 million
(US$74 million equivalent) was transferred over the 1984-90 period compared with Q 206 million
expected at appraisal. Transfers continued to increase in 1991 when they amounted to Q 182
million (US$36 million equivalent). GUATEL's investment planning was strengthened and the
tariff structure, which still subsidizes residential users, was modified taking into account many
of the findings of the tariff study carried out under the project.
6.03        Physical Results. The majority of physical components of the project were
completed although some rather late. Annexes 7.A-7.C show the increase in telephone exchange
capacity and additional telephone lines installed at project completion. A total of 109,600
additional lines were installed in the country, of which 79,000 were for the Metropolitan Area and
30,600 served the provincial towns. The new installation of the new local telephone services
covered 325 municipalities compared to 52 in 1982. The introduction of digital switching reduced
costs and network congestion. GUATEL's network was strengthened by adding 10,000 inter-
urban switches and 1,420 new channels to the long distance transmission system and a total of
2,900 new circuits were added to the international services. As of today, inter-urban transmission
capacity is stronger, and new services, such as transmission of data through packet switching and
facsimile transmission, have been introduced.
6.04        Given the large unmet demand for telephone services, GUATEL's objectives and
the project's focus were concerned with increasing coverage rather than improving quality. As
a result, no indicators for measuring the performance of the system were included in the project
and the company did not provide measures of service quality during the 1980s. Current
information (August 1992) indicates that quality remains a problem. Using call completion rates
as such a measure, both local and international long distance services remain below acceptable
standards. The call completion rate for interurban calls between Guatemala City and



9
Quetzaltenango, the two principal cities, is low at 41 %. A 45 % call completion rate for calls to
the U.S. compares poorly with rates of 63.7% in Belize, 56.8% in Costa Rica and 53.3% in
Honduras.4
6.05        Studies. The project included financing to prepare several studies (Annex 7.C).
The Tariff Study was completed and action plan prepared by October 1985. Main
recommendations of the study were to: (a) raise installation charges by 50% in real terms; (b)
reduce the number of local call impulses allowed by one third (from 2.5 to 1.5 minutes); (c) adjust
international rates in line with exchange rate movements; and (d) modify the international services
peak period from the existing 7 am - 7 pm to a proposed 8 a.m.- 11 p.m., to avoid congestion
generated by users wanting to pay reduced tariffs. In April 1986 and June 1990 installation and
intemational rates were modified and the duration of local call impulse was reduced, but the
international service peak period remained unchanged. As of today, telephone rates for residential
subscribers are still highly subsidized from international call revenues and rental rates remain
among the lowest in the world. Little was achieved under the study in changing the views of
GUATEL officials on the inadequacy of domestic telephone rates given the high level revenues
generated from international services and the limited counterpart staff involvement in the study.
6.06        The Demand Forecasting Study started late, and the expert post remained vacant
for more than a year due to a misunderstanding between GUATEL and the consultants regarding
the scope of this study. Two consultants were eventually selected and their work has been useful
for GUATEL's demand forecasting. The forecast's reliability improved considerably, based on
estimates derived through census fieldwork and comparison with information from private
companies and the Planning Ministry. Local traffic data is currently more reliable than it was at
appraisal as electronic digital replaced cross barX exchanges. An analysis for an Economic Studies
Unit was carried out as a by-product of the tariff study and such a unit was created and staffed
with GUATEL personnel trained under the loan's technical assistance component. An
Organization Structure Study was prepared and several recommendations were implemented in
1987, when the new organization chart was adopted. It also served as a guide to GUATEL's new
management in 1990 and salary policies and scales were modified in the same year. An
Operation and Maintenance study was originally planned to be prepared by an international
consulting firm, but after serious delays in the implementation and language constraints
encountered by the consultant, GUATEL decided to utilize the remaining man-months in a study
of metropolitan area traffic congestion and network planning for the introduction of digital
technology. The exercise to revalue GUATEL's fixed assets was not completed. While a
physical inventory of fixed assets was completed prior to October 1986, the process of matching
physically verified assets with historical fixed assets records was delayed due to programming
problems and continuous staff changes within GUATEL. Assets were revalued later using
telecommunications indices prepared by consultants. However, the inventory was subsequently
abandoned by the new staff in 1991, who disagreed with the methodology.
4. Source: AT&T 1991.



10
6.07        Financial Situation. GUATEL maintained a sound financial position throughout
the project period but its finances improved dramatically after the tariff adjustment of 1990.
GUATEL's income and flow of funds statements and balance sheet for the period 1984-91 are
presented in Annexes 8-14. Net income amounted to Q 182.1 million (US$35.4 million
equivalent) in 1991, compared with GUATEL's net income of Q 17.9 million (US$ 12.3 million
equivalent) when the project was approved in 1984. Its operating revenues increased nine times
in nominal values during 1984-91, well above the three-fold increase in the consumer price index,
and surpassing appraisal estimates. Revenues per operating telephone line grew more than 75%
in real terms during the same period as a result of adjustments in the exchange rate used to bill
international calls since 1986. Operating expenses per line, including amortization and transfers
to the Government grew more than 50% during the period. The average current ratio during the
period 1984-1991 was 1.5, which was above the 1.2-1.4 expected at appraisal. GUATEL
experienced a favorable decrease in accounts receivable from 86 days at appraisal to 56 days by
the end 1991. This strong financial performance permitted GUATEL to satisfactorily comply
with all the financial covenants established in the Loan Agreement (Annex 5) including the rate
of return on fixed assets, which consistently exceeded appraisal estimates.
6.08        Audit Compliance. Audit reporting was frequently delayed due to personnel
changes in the auditor selection committee and other administrative difficulties. The Bank
expressed its concern on many occasions and recommended the option of selecting auditors on a
multi-year basis. Assurances were given that approval of multi-annual auditor selection by
GUATEL's Board was imminent. Nevertheless, most reports were received by the Bank more
than a year late. GUATEL had different external auditors during the last four years of
implementation which was not considered appropriate. The Bank subsequently recommended to
revise the procedures to allow continuity of auditors, e.g. provisions for renewal of auditor
contracts on an annual basis. Not surprisingly, the project's final audit report was not received
by the Bank at the time of this PCR. GUATEL requested and the Bank agreed to provide an
extension for its completion.
6.09        Rate of Return. Using the same assumptions at appraisal for the calculation of
the project's economic rate of return (ERR), the final ERR of the overall program, including the
Bank's subproject, has been estimated at 6%. This can be attributed to the low efficiency of the
rural component and other works, which had questionable economic viability, which was
exacerbated by substantial delays in project completion. The use of a global ERR for what was
essentially a time slice of an entire investment program is questionable as an appropriate method
for evaluating groupings of coherent investments. Had this more disaggregated analysis been
done, it may have allowed for a policy discussion of whether certain investments were justified
on either quantifiable or non-quantifiable grounds. An analysis of the Bank's subproject, with the
relevant complementary works included yields an estimated ERR of 17%, suggesting that the
increase in tariffs (mainly international rates) has more than compensated for the lost revenues
caused by project delays, and that the Bank financed project remains economically viable.



11
7.          Project Sustainability.
7.01        Physical facilities and equipment that have been incorporated are functioning
properly and there is no evidence that they will not be sustained during their useful lifetime
period. In the area of line installation capabilities, GUATEL correctly gave up the approach of
self-reliance sponsored by the project and started contracting out network expansion on a turnkey
basis. Important experience was also gained in both the contracting and supervision of line
installation by the private sector. Institutional changes in organization, pricing policy and
information systems, to the extent they took place, are sustainable but have not eliminated many
of the causes of inefficiency in a public utility. Monopolistic pricing has permitted GUATEL to
become more financially sound (and make increasingly large transfers to the central government)
but may have acted as a buffer in undertaking more radical restructuring of the sector, such as
privatization, primarily as a result of concern over the loss of an important source of fiscal
revenues.
8.          Bank Performance
8.01        The Bank performed satisfactorily during identification and appraisal of the project
and showed correct judgement in scaling back both the project and the Bank's loan and attempting
to strengthen GUATEL's line installation capacity which clearly was the major obstacle which
impeded the project's execution. During project implementation, the Bank demonstrated
considerable support and flexibility for the project and GUATEL. This was primarily shown
through: (i) its advice and agreement to cancel the bid for the purchase of telex equipment based
on GUATEL's findings that demand was 40% below original expectations for such services; (ii)
its recommendation to consider a twinning arrangement with ENTEL, the telecommunications
company of Chile, to restart the failed project component to strengthen financial management in
GUATEL; and (iii) agreement to extend the loan closing date three times for a cumulative
extension of four years, including the final extension which took place during Guatemala's non-
accrual status which extended the period for existing letters of credit and allowed the project to
be completed. Insufficient attention was paid by the Bank to the supervision of the institutional
component of the project which was given only cursory treatment in the supervision reports
although this was partly reversed in the later years of project execution. The Bank's supervision
effort appears adequate (Annex 6) at an average of about 10 staffweeks and 1.5 missions per year
even with the lower level of Bank effort which took place during the suspension of Bank
disbursements. The Bank should have addressed more forcefully the delay and eventual non-
completion of the exercise to revalue GUATEL's fixed assets and the delays in submission of
progress and audit reports although there were limited options at the Bank's disposal since
disbursements were under suspension for the last several years of project execution.
9.          Borrower Performance
9.01        The project was properly identified, designed and prepared by GUATEL's staff.
The performance of GUATEL was financially and technically satisfactory. GUATEL played an
important role in recognizing technological change in deciding to terminate, with Bank support,



12
the bid for the telex services and to reallocate the funds to a packet switching data network.
GUATEL also deserves credit for having continued and concluded the project despite the
suspension in loan disbursements by the Bank. On the other hand, GUATEL was reluctant to
recognize and take appropriate action to address its managerial shortcomings in order to step up
the pace of investments to meet service needs. Inadequate coordination and supervision of project
activities were exacerbated by staff and management turnover. Counterpart support through staff
and facilities was also not always provided when needed, causing delays in project execution.
Despite several modifications to the tariff structure it remains skewed, sending the wrong signals
to customers but GUATEL officials appear to have not been convinced by the Bank's arguments
at the stage of project design and during execution of the need for eliminating the bias in favor
of residential users and local telephone service.
9.02        GUATEL still needs to undertake a significant effort to expand overall telephone
services throughout the country after this project as unfilled demand has far outstripped
projections over an unexpectedly long implementation period (Annex 3). While requests for
service are computerized, the administration of supply and allocation of available lines is done
manually. This creates imbalances between what is originally sold and what is actually available
in a specific area. This situation has created image problems and additional costly work for
GUATEL when longer cable installations from distant central offices are needed to satisfy the
promised new telephone line connection.
10.         Project Relationship
10.01       In general during project implementation, GUATEL and the Bank maintained a
close relationship and a good understanding concerning the main constraints of project
implementation, including during the extensive period of loan disbursement suspension.
Bottlenecks and constraints were removed efficiently and expeditiously without negative impacts
on the Bank-Borrower relationship. However, this relationship was characterized by a frequent
lack of continuity of staff and managers working on the project both in Guatemala and at the
Bank. There was little collaboration between the Bank and IDB during project implementation
as GUATEL managed the two projects entirely independently, and any gains to be obtained
through closer cooperation were not realized.
11.         Consulting Services
11.01       Contractors, consultants and suppliers, both local and foreign, generally performed
satisfactorily. The consultants contracted for the accounting work and system design were not
considered satisfactory and later their contract was cancelled. The initial failure of this technical
assistance component, which later was replaced by a successful twinning arrangement with
ENTEL, the Chilean telephone utility, arose from the consultants' attempt to provide a standard
software solution instead of adapting the system to GUATEL's hardware. Overall, lack of a
strong counterpart staff from GUATEL in these technical assistance activities delayed the learning
process. GUATEL officials have rated the quality, performance and guarantee service
(replacement when needed) of the equipment acquired under the project as very satisfactory. A



13
successful practice instituted by GUATEL was the requirement to include in equipment contracts
training for its staff to be provided by the vendors. GUATEL indicated its satisfaction with such
training.
12.         Project Documentation and Data
12.01       The Staff Appraisal Report was adequately prepared, generally comprehensive and
served satisfactorily for monitoring project progress during implementation although the serious
delays in execution required the revision of specific monitoring indicators. Bank supervision
reports, on the whole, concentrated more on technical progress than on the institutional and
financial aspects of the project. Borrower progress reports were adequate, although consistently
submitted beyond the due date, but they frequently did not present a complete or timely picture
of the financial situation of the Borrower. GUATEL is in the process of strengthening its
management information system, in which the data for project costs and accounting matters will
be integrated to serve as a useful tool for project management and monitoring in the future. The
project files for supervision and for preparation of this evaluation were satisfactory.
13.         Lessons Learned
13.01       The Bank's preoccupation at appraisal with GUATEL's implementation capacity
was well-founded in hindsight but the judgement that led to a sharp reduction in the scope of
GUATEL's investment program, and subsequently of the project, did not produce sufficient
skepticism regarding the setting of the project implementation schedule at three and a half years,
which was less than half the time of actual execution. The experience of the previous two projects
and the Bank's own historical disbursement profiles should have been used as a basis for
establishing the project implementation schedule (paras. 4.02-4.07).
13.02       Doubts about the need for Bank participation in the sector expressed intemally in
the Bank early in the project cycle were somewhat premature and are more valid today.
GUATEL's investments are currently, in large part, expected to be financed through supplier and
export credit and its own funds. An indirect outcome of the project has been GUATEL's decision
in 1992 to adopt a tum-key approach for expanding its telephone network in the aftermath of the
lengthy and costly (in terms of opportunity cost) delays in implementation of the Third
Telecommunications Project. Given the above factors, a guiding principle for future Bank
involvement in the telecommunications sector in Guatemala should be to limit it to mainly
technical assistance for further sectoral reforms, such as in the areas of competition and
privatization (paras. 4.03 and 6.01).
13.03       In the same vein, the results achieved under this project confirm the correctness
of the Bank's current greater emphasis on sectoral policy reform and institutional strengthening
as against mostly technical project issues. While most physical results were achieved, the project
made only modest gains in strengthening GUATEL's operations and improving its efficiency
owing to continual management changes in GUATEL but also, and perhaps more importantly,
to GUATEL's substantially improved financial situation which has insulated the company from



14
demands for improved performance mainly because of its contribution to Government finances
(paras. 6.02-6.07).
13.04       As demonstrated by the project, the use of an overall ERR for time slice
investments should be avoided as uneconomic investments can often be shrouded in an overall
acceptable ERR or economic investments be considered uneconomic due to the negative impact
of other unsuccessful elements of an investment program. Allowing for the evaluation of separate
groupings of coherent investments would force the issue of whether certain investments are
justifiable (para. 6.09).
13.05       The experience with technical assistance under the project highlighted both its flaws
and successes. The lack of adequately defined terms of reference for consultants at the outset of
the project, which have now become more standard practice, and sufficient counterpart staff were
both ingredients which limited the effectiveness of some technical assistance activities. The
twinning arrangement with an experience Latin American utility company proved a useful
alternative at relatively low cost. The provision of training by equipment vendors was also
effective. Both would be replicable tools (paras. 6.05, 6.06 and 11.01).
13.06       Experience with procurement under the project underlines the importance of taking
into account in project design Borrower capacity in determining procurement arrangements,
particularly in defining numerous bidding packages especially when items are highly
interdependent and could be grouped more economically. Problems between local procurement
laws and regulations which affected this project have confirmed the importance of the Bank's
practice to carry out country procurement assessments and address differences specifically within
the legal documents for the project (paras. 4.06, 5.01 and 5.04).
13.07       Lastly, project ownership proved to be an important element for successful
implementation as demonstrated by GUATEL which continued with and concluded the project
during a prolonged period of suspension of disbursements and limited Bank involvement (para.
9.01).



15
PART H PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Guatemala C.A.
HI Telecommunications Project Report Partially Fmanced by IBRD Loan 2385-GU'
1           Background.
1.01        In accordance with the Master Plan for Telecommunications, GUATEL
planned the execution of the III Telecommunications Project to expand the existing telephone
network by 150,000 additional lines.
1.02        The financial process to implement the project was initiated negotiating,
among others, financing from the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD).
1.03        The Bank, upon analyzing the overall project, considered that the project
should consist of a lower number of lines since, based on the Bank's experience, GUATEL
did not have the technical and administrative capabilities to carry the burden implied by the
installation of lines within the time framework estimated by GUATEL.
1.04        In accordance with the definitions set by the Bank, the feasibility study was
updated to have a more realistic determination of demand, implementation capabilities and
financing possibilities to execute the first phase of the Master Plan, which was finally
designed as follows:
Project                               Fmancing
(a)   79,000 Lines Metropolitan Area
Switching                             Banco di Roma
The Borrower's contribution to the PCR was prepared by GUATEL (Planning
and Design Division of the Projects Department). The original report was
in Spanish and has been translated to English and edited.



16
Electromechanics                       IBRD
Interconnection                        IBRD
Extemal Facilities                     IBRD-GUATEL
Civil Works                            GUATEL
(b)   30.800 Lines Departmental Area
Switching                              Chase Manhattan
Centrale
Transmission                           IBRD
Electromechanics                       IBRD
External Facilities                    IBRD-GUATEL
Civil Works                            GUATEL
(c)   Expansion of Earth Station             GUATEL
(d)   International Exchange                 GUATEL
(e)   Expansion of Public Data Network       IBRD
(f)    Rural Telephony - III Phase           IDB-GUATEL
(g)   Expansion of Data Processing System    GUATEL
(h)   Technical Assistance and Business Management:
Technical                       IBRD - GUATEL
Financial                       IBRD - GUATEL
Administrative                  IBRD - GUATEL
1.05        With the Project, 30,000 Departmental Lines were created as well as the
facilities to meet the needs of the III Rural Telephony Project, whose execution was carried
out with a loan from the IDB.
1.06        In general terms, GUATEL considers that with IBRD financial support, the
objectives of the Master Plan with respect to execution of the III Telecommunications Project
were achieved, in spite of delays in its execution, derived from the problems cited below.
The equipment purchased was installed in the places previously defined in the feasibility
study and with the number of lines programmed for the same.



17
2.          Project Execution.
2.01        GUATEL began the physical execution of the project after complying with the
national legal requirements and the Bank's requirements as to contracting with
telecommunications systems suppliers, the necessary materials and supplements.
2.02        One of the first components executed was the contracting of the technical,
administrative and financial consultant; the latter did not comply with GUATEL's objectives
in that area, and the contract had to be terminated. Later, Chilean experts were contracted to
develop the financial system programming, with the support of the equipment required for
that purpose. the above system is currently under implementation.
2.03        Along with that component, the expansion of the Metropolitan Area exchanges
started with 79,000 telephone lines, as well as those in the countryside with 30,800 telephone
lines.
2.04        Likewise, Project execution and the National Transmission Expansion Program
were initiated to provide service to the country's Eastern Region.
2.05        Contracting for other subprojects continued, including the National
Transmission Expansion Program, which would provide service to the Western Region's
Exchanges and the Energy and Emergency Facilities Systems, which were fully completed.
During the above period, the execution of the III Phase of the Rural Telephony Project
began, and is expected to be completed in 1993.
3.          Problems Related to the Project.
3.01        During project execution, GUATEL faced obstacles related to:
(a)   Delays on subproject execution, due to turnover of high-level staff.
During project execution there were two changes of Government,
which brought about changes in the Board of Directors, Management
and Administration. This obstructed the bidding process and progress
of project activities. Consequently, contracts derived from the bidding
were delayed. We should also add the financing management process
through foreign loans, such as in the switching subproject for whose
execution several financing sources were involved (commercial banks,
Italian Government loans and World Bank).
(b)   Technological changes in the equipment offered during contracting
caused modifications on the contracts given the technical changes.



18
(c)   The impact of the devaluation of the Quetzal which had a strong effect
on contracts denominated in Quetzales for dollar-based goods and
services. In those contracts, it was necessary to modify certain clauses
to avoid affecting the suppliers.
(d)   Contractor diversification, which caused coordination and supervision
problems, as well as many delays.
(e)   Equipment installation delays, especially of remote units, given the
difficulty of not having the land in the places identified by the technical
studies for switching station locations. Such delays led to the search
for new sites with the ensuing cost increases in external facilities.
(f)   Problems with subversive elements, which did not allow the
construction of telephone booths and installation of equipment in
dangerous areas, especially in the Rural Telephony Project, where it
was impossible to develop all the access roads. In this aspect,
GUATEL developed a contingent program of aerial and ground
transportation to carry the materials and equipment to the areas where
the repeater stations were not built.
(g)   Slow processing of permits to carry out street works, which in the
Metropolitan Area are granted by the Capital City Municipality and in
the Departmental areas by each Municipality.
(h)   Slow approval process to supply commercial power for the remote
units.
(i)    Authorization was denied to build booths or repeater stations in
archeological places or national monuments (Antigua Guatemala).
4.          Bank Support on Project Implementation.
4.01        GUATEL considers that the Bank effectively supported the development of
this project.
4.02        It should be noted that the suggestions of the Bank to reduce the number of
lines to be installed during project implementation, considering the slow management process
at the national level, both for bids and loans, was a decision which caused delays in meeting
the forecasted demand, taking into account the limitations faced by GUATEL as an State
enterprise in project consolidation, due to the bureaucracy in the administrative management
of the same, up to its completion.



19
4.03        In view of the above, it would be convenient that in the future the Bank take
into consideration issues related to internal management procedures at the national level to
determine whether or not it is convenient to suggest reductions to planned projects.
4.04        Project supervision by the Bank during project execution was satisfactory,
since it was very flexible under changed situations, which allowed technical modifications to
be made that resulted in better project outcomes.
4.05        It is convenient to note that the Bank does not have a Resident Representative
Office in the country, which made the two-way communications difficult. Such situation
prevents from timely compliance, with information requirements for effective decision-
making and results in delays in the delivery of reports when the Bank sends supervision
missions, as well as with project execution whenever it is necessary to request Bank approval
on various aspects of the corresponding project execution.
4.06        Taking into consideration the agreements reached with and the
recommendations made by the Bank, as indicated in the Third Project evaluation report,
GUATEL contracted experts both for the technical and for the administrative-financial areas
during project execution.
4.07        Within the financial area, the corresponding rate surveys were carried out, the
study to establish cost accounting was performed and external auditors were hired in
accordance with the terms set by the Bank. In the administrative area, staff management
procedures and telephone line management were reviewed. However, it was difficult for
GUATEL to implement them since they did not coincide with the administrative policies of
the Government at that time. Nonetheless, with respect to the Rate Study, GUATEL took
into account certain aspects of the study to implement the 1990 rate adjustment.
4.08        Likewise, the financial systems derived from the study carried out by ENTEL
Chile are being implemented.



20                                  Annex I
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans
First                     1971     US$16 million    Financed the foreign   Completed December 1979
elecommunications                                   exchange component of PCR  No. 2908 March
Project (792-GU)                                     the project aimed at   21, 1980
providing local and
long distance telephone
services.
Second                    1975    US$26 million       To improve the       Completed November 1985
Telecommunications                                   quality of service and  PCR No. 6493 November
Project (1104-GU)                                    to expand the telex    12, 1986
network and rural
telephone services.



21                                                 Annex 2
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Project Timetable
W"'',''-e""''-'"n''L                               -D"                                         ft -c
Identification                                                                             April 3, 1981
Preparation                                                                            October 12, 1981
Appraisal                    July 12, 1981                                            February 20, 1982
Negotiations                                                                            October 8, 1982
Board Approval               June 17, 1983          February 20, 1984                     March 1, 1984
Loan Signature                                                                            May 24, 1984
Effectiveness Date                                                                        Juno 11, 1984
Completion Date           December 31, 1987                                                   July 1992
Loan Closing                 June 30, 1988            June 30, 1989                       June 30, 1992
June 30, 1990
June 30, 1991
Loan Cancellation                                                                           July 7, 1992



Annex 3
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate             14.34    28.26       30
Actual                         0.538     2.07      8.18    13.68    17.68    21.72    26.15    27.21    27.43
Actual as % of Estimate          3.4      7.3      27.3     45.6     58.9      72.4     87.2     90.7      91.4
Date of Ffr~~~t Disbuseiiient  De~~~uib........... V
......... . o.  C.. ig....J ne 0    ~ 8



GUATEMALA
Annex 4.A
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Project Costs and Financing
(US$ million)
i::Aiwraisal EstiaeAta
_~~~~~a  .*.. :'.:B                                               . ;    .| 
BANK SUB-PROJECT
ocal and long distance service
Switching/PCM                                   4.80        46.40        51.20                1.15        65.24        66.39 /I
Transmission                                    0.50         4.60         5.10                0.17        12.00        12.17
CableS                                          9.40         7.70        17.10                4.70        10.10        14.80
PUblic call offices                             2.20         3.20         5.40                 -           2.30         2.30
Power plant                                     0.50         4.80         5.30                0.04         1.30         1.34
Sub-total:      17.40        66.70        84.10                6.06        90.94        97.00                    L
Other htns
Training                                        1.10         0.70         1.80                0.17         2.02         2.19
Consutants                                        -          1.00         1.00                0.27         1.21         1.48
Computcr                                        0.40         3.00         3.40                0.75         2.29         3.04
CivI Works                                      3.60            -         3.60                0.02           -          0.02
Sub-totl:        5.10         4.70         9.80                 1.21        5.52         6.73
Base Cost:       22.50        71.40        93.90                7.27        96.46       103.73
Contingencles
Physical                                        0.20           -          0.20                 1.70        0.08         1.78 /2
Price                                           5.70         9.20        14.90                             2.10         2.10 /3
TOTAL BANK SUB-PROJECT:              28.40        80.60       109.00                 8.97       98.64        107.61
DB SUB-PROJECT
Ilservces                                       6.40        25.70        32.10                10.22       27.27        37.49
CABEI SUB-PROJECT
InteCational Services                           7.60        26.00        33.60                0.00         0.00         0.00
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:             42.40       132.30       174.70                19.19       125.91       145.10
1/ Includes Public Data Network equipmtent
2/ Overruns
3/ Price Fluctuations



24
GUATEMALA                                           Annex 4.B
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Project Financing
(US$ million)
External Sources:
World Bank                            30.0        17.2        27.4       18.9
IDB                                   18.0        10.3        16.9       11.6
CABEI                                 26.0        14.9         0.0        0.0
Suppliers                             40.8        23.4       53.3        36.7
Subtotal:          114.8        65.7       97.6        67.3
Domestic:
Foreign Costs                         17.5        10.0       28.3        19.5
Local Costs                           42.4        24.3        19.2       13.2
Subtotal:           59.9        34.3       47.5        32.7
Total:          174.7       100.0       145.1      100.0
Source: GUATEL



25
Annex 4.C
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Loan Allocation By Category
(US$ million)
Category 1: Local Exchange Equipment                            0.50                        4.19    l
Category 2: Cable, Coin Telephonesand Power Plant               15.70                       13.04
Category 3: Long Distance Trnmission Equipment                   4.60                        5.SS
Category 4: Computer System                                      3.00                        0.00
Category 5: Consultants                                          1.00                        0.69
Category 6: Fee                                                  0.44                        0.44
Category 7: Unallocated                                          4.76                        0.00
Category 8: Date Public Network                                  0.00                        3.50
TOTAL                                                          30.00                      27.41
Source: GUATEL



26
GUATEMALA                                                      Annex 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Status of Covenants
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~.      .:  ...* .. .....'.. 'W g:'   i       , ...i    i,,   i. ig         :  ',@  :'       i    :j
3.02               GUATEL to employ consultants for             Complied. FinwnisJl consultancy was substituted with
strengthening capabilities in administraion,  modified twinning uarngemeaL Progres hu been good
planning, finane and management, and study   with technical assistnce incorporated with GUATEL's
of telephone tariffs.                        computer modernization progrnm.
3.3 (a)            GUATEL to insure imponco goods fianced       Complied.
out of the proceeds of the loan.
3.04 (a)           CUATEL to furnish to the Bank the plans      Complied.
specifications, contract documents and
schedules for the Project
3.04 (b)           GUATEL to maintain records and procedures    Complied.
adequat to monitor the progress of the
Project, including its cost and the benefits
derived from it
3.05               GUATEL to carry out a tariff study by lune   Complied, but not timely.
30, 1984 and furnish by September 30, 1914 a
plan of action for carrying out the
recommendations of the study as agreed to with
the Bank.
5.02               GUATEL to urnish audited financial           Complied, but not timely.
statements not later than four mootbs after the
end of each fil year.
5.04               No additional iovestment over Q 3.0 million  Complied.
per aanum unless a financing plan thereof has
approved.
5.05               All measures to be tken to produce an annual    Complied
rate of return not less than 12% for FY84 and
13% for FY85 and tbereafter.
5.06               GUATEL to maintain iu current accrual-base   Complied.
accounting system.
5.07               GUATEL to urnisb to the Bank for comment,   Complied, but not timely.
documentation relating to the switching
equipment package.



27
GUATEMALA
Annex 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Through                                               n.a.                       13.7
Appraisal
Appraisal                                             n.a.                      68.3
Through Board
Approval
Board Approval                                        n.a.                       n.a.
Through
Effectiveness
Supervision                                          n.a.                       80.7
otal                                                                           162.7
B. Mission Data
...N..            r '         .  .          ,    W-...  ,   -
Identification     April 1981                         3.0      1           Ec            3.0                     05/06/81        -
Prepartion         October-Novermber 1981              1.4     2          E,F            2.0                     1210S/82        -
Pr-apprisal        January 1982                       2.0      3         E,F,L           6.0                     05/26182        -
2.0     2           F,L            4.0                    06/10/82        -
Appmidl            February 1982                      4.0      4         F,E,Ec         16.0                     03/12V2        -
Post-Appranial     March 1983                         2.0      2          E,F            4.0                     03/21/83       TIM
ost -Appraisal    May 1983                           2.0      2          F,L            4.0                      6/25/83       T,M
upervision        November 1983                      1.0      2           F             2.0                     11129/83       TIM
upervision        March 1984                         2.0      2          F,E            4.0                      4/141/4         M
upervision        July 1985                          2.0      3         F,E,L           6.0                     08112185        KP
upervision        Februay 1986                       2.0      3         F,Ec,L          6.0                      4111/86       MIT
upervision        October 1986                       2.0      2          FIE            4.0                     11/11/86        M
upervision        August 1987                        2.0      2          F,E            4.0                     09/02V87        M
upervision        May 1988                           1.0      3         F,Ec.L          3.0                     06/02/88        M.P
upervision        Februay 1989                       2.0      2          FIE            4.0                     0V28/89          M
upervision        October 1989                       1.0      2          FIE            2.0                     10/31/89         P
upervision        March 1990                         1.0      I           F             1.0                     03/06/90        W/S
upervision        October 1991                       2.0      2          F,E            4.0                     11/11/91         M
upervision        December 1992                       1.0     I           Ec            1.0                     01/07/93        n/S
Specialties: F- Financial Analyst; E-Engineer, Ec-Economnist; LLoan Officer
Type of Problem: F-Financial; T-Technical; M-Managerial; P-Political; n/s- Not Specified



28
Annex 7.A
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Project Results
A. Telephone and Telex Facilities
Lcal TJckphone Network
*Number of Exchanges                                                 54              87                64            8
*Equipped Capacity                                              146,800         289,600           178,400       280,50
*Main Lines in Service                                           97,509         205,000            132,718      236,30
*Public Call Offices                                              1,003           5,203              1,096        2,093
*Unfilled Demand                                                186,500         207,000           362,634       437,20
f. Lines in Serv. Ouuside Guatemala City (%)                           15             24                 151
*Number of Municipalities with Telephone                             51             250               32.5          na.
Teleph. Penetration (lines/100 inhabitants)                        1.40             n.a               1.6          2.1
Loig Distance Network (Nanonal)
*Number of Interurban Automatic Exchangea                              1              2 (1)              13
*Total Terminations on Interurban Exchangea                       3,200           5,200             4,370        13,17
*Total Number of Available Channels                                1,777          4.258
*Public Call Offices                                                 54             974 (2)            64            69
Intentaonoj Service
*Number of Internt. Automaitic Exchanges                              1               2                 1
*Total Terminations on Internat. Exchanges                          200           4,000             2,000         4,07
*Total Number of Intern t.Telephone Circuit,                        497             897               408         3,43
Tele.x Servicc
*Number of Telex Exchanges                                            4               5                 4
*Equipped Capacity                                                1,538           2,562             1,538         1,556
*Number of suacnbers                                                858           2,000             1,373         1,41
Unfilled Demand                                                    920            1,000                 0
(I)  Exclude Quetzaltenango exchange which is s combined local and tansit exchange
(2) Includes cofmunity sub sribers in Ruanl Telephony.



29
GUATEMALA                                          Annex 7.B
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Physical Targets of the Project
.-: ,',-,  A't,:   ',
I. LOCAL EXCHANGES
Guatemala City
1. Tivoli III (D)                             29,000        Dec-85         29,000        Apr-88
2. Guarda Viejo III (D)                       12,000        Feb-86         12,000        Jun-88
3. Monte Verde III (D)                        20,000        Apr-86         20,000        Dec-88
4. El Carmen II (D)                           18,000         Jun-86        18,000        Mar-89
Subtotal                                    79,000                       79,000
Provinces
5. Amatitlan (D)                               1,400        Dec-85          1,408         Oct-88
6. Antigua (D)                                 2,400        Dec-85          2,224        May-88
7. Coban (N)                                   1,000         Jul-86          688         Dec-88
8. Chimaltenango (N)                           1,400        Dec-85          1,408         Sep-88
9. Chiquimula (E)                                500        Dec-86           520         Dec-87
10. Chiquimula (D)                             1,500        Dec-86           984         Oct-88
11. Flores Peten (D)                           2,000         Jul-86         1,536        Dec-87
12. Huehuetenango                              1,400        Feb-86          1,280        Apr-88
13. Jalapa (N)                                   500         Jul-86         1,000         Jan-89
14. Jutiapa (E)                                  600        Dec-86          1,000        Dec-87
15. Mazatenango (E)                              900        Feb-86           808         Apr-88
16. Panajachel (N)                               700        Feb-86           600         Apr-88
17. Puerto Barrios (E)                           400        Dec-86           408         Dec-87
18. Puerto de San Jose (D)                     2,000         Jul-86         1,600        Dec-88
19. Quetzaltenango I (D)                       5,000        Dec-85          5,000        Dec-87
20. Quiche (NB)                                  400        Dec-84          1,000        Nov-87
21. Retalhuleu (E)                             1,500        Feb-86          1,400         Sep-88
22. San Jose Pinula (D)                        2,500        Dec-85            304         Sep-88
23. San Lucas Sac. (N)                           600        Dec-85          2,176        Dec-90
24. San Marcos (N)                               500        Feb-86           520         Apr-88
25. Tiquisate (NB)                               600        Dec-84          1,200        Apr-88
26. Totonicapan (N)                              600        Dec-86            600         Sep-87
27. Villa Nueva (D)                            1,400        Dec-85          1,544         Oct-88
28. Zacapa (E)                                   800        Dec-86          1,400         Oct-88
Subtotal                                    30,600                       30,608
Total                                       109,600                     109,608
Note:
(D) - Digital
(E) - Extension of Ericsson exchange
(N) - Extension of NEC exchange
(NB) - Extension of NEC exchanp financed by [MRD under Second Loan.



30
GUATEMALA                                              Annex 7.B
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Physical Targets of the Project (cont.)
.. .  . ..  E ET .    .   .  . .   i .........  .   -. . .......-  . L. ..... ..
t:.0:40 C inpon..,  uits:   ! 2           t             '-:"  /. '      Dt'   .          )t ........ e    ...   
II. INTERURBAN TRANSIT EXCHANGES
1. Guatemala national exchange (Unit II)                                       Dec-85          Oct-88
2. Quetzaltenango transit exchange                                             Dec-85          Jan-90
III. INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE
Guatemala international Exch. (Unit II)                                     Jul-86         Nov-88
IV. TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS
1. ANALOGIC MICROWAVE SYSTEMS (960 ch.)                                        Dec-85
a. Cerro Quetzaltepeque-Chiquimula                                                           Sep-88
b. Cerro Quetzaltepeque-Yupiltepeque                                                         Sep-88
c. Chiquimula-Zacapa                                                                         Sep-88
d. Jutiapa-Yupiltepeque
2. DIGITAL MICROWAVE SYSTEMS (300 ch.)                                         Mar-86
a. Canchacan-El Hallazgo                                                                    Feb-89
b. Canchacan-Las Escobas                                                                    Apr-89
c. Santa Elena, Peten-EI Hallazgo                                                            Jun-89
3. UHF/VHF SYSTEMS (120 Ch. Analogic)                                          Mar-86
a. Purcila-Santa Elena, Peten                                                                Jul-89
4. UHF/VHF SYSTEMS (24 Ch. Analogic)
a. Asuncion Mita-Cerro Yupiltepeque                                                         May-89
b. Cerro Yupiltepeque                                                                       May-89
5. UHF/VHF SYSTEMS (24 Ch. Analogic)                                                           Oct-88
a. El Hallazgo-Melchor de Mencos                                                             Ju1-89
b. El Hallazgo-Purucila
6. DIGITAL MICROWAVE SYSTEMS (34 Mb/s)                                         Mar-86
a. El Hallazgo-Melchor de Mencos                                                             Jan-90
b. Escuintla-Cerro La Cruz                                                                   Jan-90
c. Escuintla-Puerto San Jose                                                                Sep-89
d. Raxquin-Totonicapan                                                                      Oct-89
7. DIGITAL MICROWAVE SYSTEMS(2 x 34 Mb/s)                                      Mar-86
a. Cerro Tecpan-EI Jardin                                                                   Nov-89
b. El Jardin-Guarda Viejo                                                                   Nov-89
c. Raxquin-Cerro Tecpan                                                                     Oct-89
d. Raxquin-Quetzailtenango                                                                  Sep-89



3 1
Annex 7.C
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMNIUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GLJ
Stu dies
Study AraDt o:eotRecommnatosipeend
Management and                                        Completed and partially implemented
Organization Structure              n.a.              during 1987-1990
Tariff Study                    October 1985          Completed and partially implemented
Information systems               July 1990           Twenty systems developed.
diagnostic and design                                 Four of them implemented
Demand Forecasting                  n. a.             Completed and under implementation
Operation and Maintenance            n.a              Cancelled



GUA1'EMALA
Annex 8
PROJECT COMI'LETION REPORT
TIIIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Forecast and Actual Income Statements, 1984-1991
qO?000)
ut:       t#es                              *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. .....2.
OPERATING REVENUES
-    _.u1k                           7,45S        2.747       11,300        2,410       11.30D        2.303       13,540        1,72        133.50        3,546       11.01)       i4.37        1,0t         22,40t       11,032
-D-.dw.                             25.001       23,940       34.530       27,855       41,m         21.559       50,129       30,U5        59.496       33,3-6       70,655       38.066       13,817       32.291       O0.411
-a,s3C.h                           30,472       35.812       37,675        47.013       46,800      102,255      57.300       131.136      69.762       162.255      549004      235.915       103.133     511.074      565,941
S.b-Tow                           66,531       65.499       53,505       77,253       99,921      1333117      120D.99      163.702      142.118      199.167      173.669      258.322      205.010     635.773      657.391
-Tek                                6446         7.053        *,125        7,33        10,325       15,205       12,6Q0       20,310       15,050       21,531       17,500       21,615       20,30D       27.798       19.405
Tuqwu                              13.652        1,861        1,734        1,340        1,821        2.931        1,912        4,931        2,006        4,029        2,106        3.492        2.213        3,746        8,015
OL6w                       ~~~~~~794   1.076          933         2.924        1,049       4.166         3.207       12.235        3.356       17.063        I.5M       23.822         1.1835     30.942       44,063
Toa                              75,463       1,489       94.277         .S855      113,123      155,420      136.70t      203,371      161.260      241,700      194,667      335.333      229.378     672.239      72.894 
OPERATING EXMSES
SaIujes                             133n12       12,886       16.040        18,014       19,333      26,096       24.0U4       41,031       29.170       51.110       34,258       57,314       40,241       u.293       344.010
Sbif momm1V.                         1,617        1.966        2.135         1.9?0       2,315        2,666        2,692        3.039        3.313        3.521        4,742        4,454        5,995        5,318       20.234
50ff _Aiza3i                         1,617        1.966        2,135         1,970       2,315        2,6S6        2.692        3.019        3.353        3.521        4.742        4,454        5,995        5,318       20,234
"h3iak                               7,128        3,546        3,473        4.130        10.541       3,047        12.133       2.993       13.999        4.904       15.212        3,313        16.512       7,89        6.075
Ob3.                                 4,608       N8.D          5.530        18.793       6.452       65.145        7.55t       79,459        *.664       89,494        10.135      94,551        11,613     100,500      154.154
Mi,y iotion                          8,910        6,513       10,591        6,7n9        13.551       7.040        10,042       15,351      17.496        17.135       19,015      32,83       21.015       39.3to       42927
G-- P-.uiucqlsdu                     14,553       17.87        19.214       17.731       20.131       24.I77       24,n24      277.71        30,444       31.685      42,653       40,057        53,954      47.858      152.104
Ti                                52,245       62.793       64.311       70.097       75.638      130.79        84,125      172.073      106,541      2.073        130.785      237,136      155,625      354.526      569.735
Op.fatiRg lo_                       23,220        19,695      30.158        1,790       37,485       24.541       46,664       29.106       54.723       39,713       64,013     9n,ln7         73.752     323.733       159.156
O3. : r c. _ (Nat)                     51s         1.765         595         2,213         654         4.499         717         5.302         205         .531         1,041       17.326        1,197      28,351       95.240
Not. o   Bd. ta..                   23.735       21,460       30.753        21,003       31.169       29.040       47,451       34,404      54.925       45.249       65.124       115.5D3       74.949     352,054      254.396
Lat Cs-god Ope.:                     3.472        3,552        2,979        3.273        2.772        4,863        5.517        7,237        10.917       36,562       10.4WD      75,436        9,307      304.225       7,293
Nd Iso....                        20.266       17,n     7n7.774          17,.3        35,397       24,177       41.934       27.171       43,943       31,657       54.644       40.057       65.642       47.859     i35,303
APPUC. OF NET INC.
- C 0.giny R..                       1,617         1,966       2.135         1.976        2,315        2,656        2,692        3.019        3,313       3,521        4.742        4.454         5.995       5,318       20,234
- Rem..d lavm                        38,649       15.2        25.639        15,760       33,065       21.49D       39,242       24.152       41325       28.167       49,902        35.633       59,64s      42.541       163.8M
Optiig Rai                              69           76           6             79          67           t4           66           s6           66           *4           67           71           68           52           78
sa Dml                             1It,380      121,251      214,759      120w565      2549         120.340      277,926      122,252      296,692      147,096      324AA06      150.039      150.039      356.074      332,761
* Raw   Raw                            12.66        15.00        14.04        15.0I        14.74        20.00        16.79        21.0)        3t.32        22.00        19.74        27.no        20.71        20.00        55.00



GUATEMALA
Annex 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Forecast and Actual Sources and Applications of Funds, 1984-1991
(Q 000)
EeXt?::.'0I 84    ; - 985                                      198                         "a9      1              t             199
funid P)o  ilmgt -              ESA C6ET                         CT       Sr C*A T.;AT"'AT                                        AC.            CtA
Net Inc. beforc In.           23,738    21,460     30,753    21,003    38,171     29,040    34,408      48,249     115,523     352,084          254,397
Depreciation                   8,910     6,511     10,392     6,789    13.551      7,040     15,351     17,835      34,880      39,360           42,927
Staff lndemnization                                                                                      7,071       9,958      24,743           58,212
Int. cash. Generation         32,648    27,971     41,145    27.792    51,722    36,080    49.759       73,155     160,361     416,187          355,536
Less Imt. Ch. Oper.            3,472     3,582      2.979     3,273     2.772      4,863     7,237      16.562      75,436     304,225           72,293
Cap Int.                   515         0       3,463         0     7,310         0          0          0           0            0                0
Amortization                5,198     3,197      5,077     3,312     7,256      3,486     2,547       6,106      19,278      23,718           115,414
.                                                                                  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Total Debt Service              9,185     6,779     11,519     6,585    17,338      8,349     9,784 0   22,668       94,714     327,943           187,707
Net Int. Cash Gen.             23,463    21,192     29,626    21,207    34,384    27,731     39,975      50,487      65,647      88,244           167,829
Borrowings:
-Suppliers credit              4,300       137     15,300         0    17,000         25     3,741      16,236      75,804       9,936            19,214
- lDB                          5,400     2,290      7,200         0     3,600        67        225       3,584      11,798      29,672            17,593
Proposed IBRD (III)          3,640       443     21,100        557     4,980       517      9,430       9,837      12,165      24,157           14,698
-CABEI                         2,351         0      3,430       121    13,750        121       449         192           0           0                0
Total                        15,691     2,870     47,030       678    39,330       730      13,845     29,849      99,767      63,765           51,505
Govt. Contribution                  0         0          0         0         0          0         0           0           0           0                0
TOTALSOURCES                   39,154    24,062     76,656    21.885    73,712    28,461      53,820     80,336     165,414      152,009          219,334
APPLICATIONS
Construction Req:
- On going works              17,500     3,371      5,000     5,731                5,294     5,836      96,588      78,203      70,595           53,516
-IBRD (11)                     2,500     2,290         0          0.        0         0          0           0          0            0                0
- IBRD (111)                  14,475       443     70,290         0    64,855       517      9,430       9,738      12.165      24,157            14.698
- Future investment               0          0         0          0         0         0        225       3,584      11,798      29,672            17,593
Totl                         34,475     6,104     75,290     5,731    64,855      5,811     15,491    109,910     102,166     124,424           85,807
Changes in Wg. Capital         -6,924    17,958      1,192    15,597     5,067    22,625     38,329      -29,574     63,168      27,285           133,527
Othe Invcstments               13,602         0        572         0     2,990          0         0           0           0           0                0
TOTALAPPLICATIONS              39,154    24,062     76,856    21,895    73,712    28,461      53,820     80,336     165,414      152,009          219,334
.



34
Annex 10
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECONIMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Lo.a 2385-GU)
Forecast and Actual Balance Sheets, 1984-1991
(Q 000)
.      .                          3WEiEai.. 'i 'jj '2~ "'      "U     .-8'"                         '             3'.
ASSETS
G- FmA mM                    I16,57    160.436    237,50)    168,913    304.340    174,151    337.129    209.363    342.       246,962    397.93     426,036     a2,S        503.794        541,421
L:  dopmdtu                   43,666     40.750    a4,u27     47,469     67.a,       4.soo      3,1.0     7.7112    101.349    9S.024    120.364    124.94    1i4J379        169.332        210,361
NoBud - w _                   42,491    119.66   13,243    121.444    236.732    119.251    253,279    137,253   241.4S9    16936    27,646    301,132    301,429           334.462        331,0
W-k i - pol-                  31.44      26.699     1,704      23,471    63,430    2Z.354       77,U49     11,779    92,U49    101,111    107,U49     40.665    132,S49        5'.709       110.5
O0 _.,                        13.6=       7.395     14,176     10,457     17,166     24,7-     25.305      26.27     29.05      99.624     41,771     91.m       46,011       14,539
CURBETr ASSETS
Cl..& B..k                     3.2       16,960     10,090     34,730    12.10       40.403     15,321      3.238     18,112     6.536     22.234     13,690     26.44         25.319        57.3
T-y bEd.                           0      5,A            0         0          0          0          0       7.000         0    I0S,ODO          0    1O,5tC           0       2326152       28301
Ao...M                        15,093     19,47      11.153    20,296     22,62      26.347      27.356    33.933     32,253     45,230     38.974     79.217     45,176       134,4S   0   113.7
b_ 1ui   U.Ma                  4,571      5.430      3,651      5,24      7,020     27,164       6,tO7     23.17      10,464    33,29      12.736     69,427     15,470       102,120       135,41
h.ly                          11,369     12,963     12,474      9,466     14,12   Z2,33       1I.971    47,S7S     2.456      6,693      2.494      79,666     24622        139,513       125,74
00_                            2,300        401      2,645      5,091     3,042       1,936      3,498      2,134     4,023      2,54       4,626      3.273      5.30         4.674          7.4
S&A-Taow                      42,215     49,323     50,25      76.157    60,365    118.W25      73,755    115,07S    17,310    261.512    IM,069    345,773    119.744       644,431        71.01
Towl  A.t                    229.5S2    214,102    306h641    232.29    377,693    291.218    430,O6    360.337    450,123    619.su    530.139    776.775    6c0,m3       1,176.16      1,418.97
a tloEs
C.Pi- A  R.  S-ip            129.094    126.601    154,733    14Z230    I 17,817    164,232    227.060    13,062    261,310    216.937    31.20    252,462    377,167        296.176        436,
C-io>y a-.                     *.296      3,.37     10,423     10.791     12.747     13.365     13.439     16.364    11,30      19.904     23,564     24.359     19,539        29.676        49,91
s.&.TSoW                     137,392    135,431    165.156    153,021    200.564    177.597    22,49    304,"47   27,14D    236.711    341,7U4   276.641    397,426         32s,152        50_6
;-T.nn D1a4                    57,575     31,323      9.528     29,546    131,600     36,571    135,459    53,996    121,941    164.100    109,971    273.69s7    9,29         437,s94       423,261
CURRENT nuABLm
s.qp   .                      17,090      5Jts4     14,399      1,571    15,839      8.030      17,423     22.415     1,166     n,571      21,062     48,29S     23,190       79,0a          47
.Pu tay . o l                  1,247     14,410      1.44      11.964     1.649     27,36        1,19     25.096      1,190    72,964       2,507    105,129      Z.33       2n,970         132,
_win,a-3TmT r                  1,219      Z.164     1,507      3.139       I,m       4,673       2,295     10.96      1,790      9,650      3,596     14.499      4,125       30,046         I3I
SUfN i                         1.617      1.534      2,135      1,970     2,315      2.315      2.692      3,019      3.383      3,21      4.742      4.47       ,9#          5.379         A0,
Ga. Puvui                     14.553     11.34      19,214     19.546    20,831     25,639      24.224    31,793     30,444     4D.443     42,681     49.017     53,954       47a,          la2.
S         ff                   3.110      4.496      3,266     6.452      3,429      9,025      3.609      8.70       3,7W       9.9sD      3,969     15.746          0       29.676         43
S - Tal                       36,86      46.S41     41,915     30.662    45.935     77050      52,130    10.94       41,743    219,074    7n.577    22.237       9D,147      412.012        489,11
Toul L.biLi6.                233,80    214,102    306.69    232,2s9   37,049    291,213    430,ot    360,337    450,24    619A.81       530,339    77.775    5S5,10       1.175.76      1,41,n
D.Wi,." Rdo                    30r1       194r1     3S/62       164S4     49/49      17/83      34/64      21/9       30/70      16/4       24/76      svo0       m0n          57143          46/
Cu      m                       1.21       1.29        1.2       1 32       1.31       1.54       1.41       1.62      1.41       1,19       1.32       1.51      l12            1.56          1.4 
So: GUATEL



35
Annex 11
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Financial Indicators 1984-1991
..... =....K
Telephone revenues/                          368      204      367      457      544       635      710      646         491.
operting telephone lines
(curmnt USS)/l
Total operating expen ae/                    353      135      361      480      552       522      409      560         427.8
operating telephone lines
(current USS)/2
rating rtio (%) /3                       0.76     0.79     0.84     0.86     0.84     0.71     0.52     0.78          76.3
Rte of return (%) /4                          15       15       20       21        22       27       20       55          24.
L.T. Debt-to-equity ratio (%)                 19       16       17       21       41        50       57       46          33.
Current ratio (times)                       1.29     1.52     1.54      1.82     1.19     1.51     1.56     1.47           1.5
Int. cash gen. ratio (%)/5                  3.47     3.37     4.75      2.58     0.46     0.64     0.71     1.96           2.
Debt service coverge rtio                    4.1      4.2      4.3       5.1      3.2      1.7      1.3       1.9          3
(times)
Accounts receivable (days)                    86       83       62       62       68        86       72       57            72
1/ Converted from quetzales at an annual average exchange rate of the parllel market.
2/ Includes transfers to the Governnent and amortizAtion.
3/ Operting expenses / operating revenues x 100.
4/ Based on assets revalued using price indexes.
51 As % of construction applications.



GUATEMALA                                                                                  Annex 12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Selected Performance Indicators, 1984-1992
.............                                                     ~*~.
. Telephone Exchangc                       App.            181,000      224,700     289,600      219,600     219,600
capacity (linec)                        Act.            175,700      175,700     176,700      177,400     251,800      275,800     213,200     233,200      210,5
b. Main tekphone lines                      App.            125,000     150,000      175,000     205,000      235,000                                                                  w
connected                              Act.            117,151      12t,179     130,971      132,711      132,711     151.104      190,213     202,209      236,3                 OS
c. Telex subscribas (aumber)                App.              1,150        1,350       1,600        2,000       2,300
Act.              1,176        1,112       1,211        1,295       1,373        1,345       1,259        1,130       1,1
d. Employees (number)                       App.              3,160        4,300       4,700        5,200       5,5C0
Act.              3,973       4,355        4,451       4,370        5,110       4,902        5,092       4,749        5,43
. Employees per 1000                       App.                 32           29          27           25          23
amin telephone lines                    Act.                 33          34           34          36           36          31           27           23
f. Rate of retum(%)                         App.               12.7           14         14.7        16.1         11.3
Act.                 15         IS           20          21           22          27           20          55          t.
g tOperating ratio (%)                      App.                 69           68          67           66          66
Act.                 76        78.9         14.2        15.5         13.6        70.7         52.3         71.2         n.r.
h  Debt ervice                             App.                3.6          3.6           3          2.7         2.9
coverage (times)                        Act.                4.1          4.2         4.3          5.1         3.2          1.7         1.3          1.9         n.



Annex 13
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Financial Rate of Return
- ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ 18 -                  8      - 196          987        1988       199)9Q19                         Ae
Rate of return (%)
Appraisal                12.7         14        14.7        16.8         -                                             14.6
Actual /I                  15         15          20         21          22          27         20          25         24.4
1/ Assets revalued using price indexes. Covenanted rate was 12% for 1984 and 15% for 1985 and thereafter.



38
GUATEMALA                                                       Annex 14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Tariff Evolution of Telephone Services
(In current Quetzales and US$)
In-staiOon Cbarge /1                       In Quetzales                         In Quetzales                            In Quetzales
Guatenala City
Cash                                       400.00                               300.00                                 1500.00
Credit (20 monthly installments)           456.00                               333.00                                 1640.20
Other Places
Cash                                       300.00                               600 00                                  800 00
Credit (12 monthly inhtallments)           336.00                               666.00                                  888.00
Rental (per month) /2
Residertial subscribers line                  4.00                                4.00                                    4.00
Nonresidential subscribers line              12.00                                12.00                                   12.00
PABX lines                                   12.00                                12.00                                   12.00
Call Chargs
LocIA calls (per inpulse in excess
of allowance f2)
Residential subscribers                       0.02                                0.02                                    0.04
Nonmsidential subscriben                      0.04                                0.04                                    0.09
PABX lines                                    0.04                                0.04                                    0.09
Full rate       Reduced rate        Full mte         Reduced rate        Full rte              Reduced rate
Q                    Q              Q                     Q             Q                           Q
Long Distace Calls
Subscriber dialed (per rninute)
within same charging zone         0.06                 0.04           0.06                  0.04           0.19                       0.13
To adjacent zones                0.10                 0.08           0.10                  0.08           0.32                       0.26
To others zones                  0.15                 0.12           0.15                  0.12           0.48                       0.39
Fwrst    Add'l       First Add'I   First    Add'I         First Add'I   First          Add'I        First Add'I
Opemtor saisted                 3 min      min       3 min  mnin  3 mmin       min        3        mnin   rnin  3         mnin  crin  3      mnn    min
Within same charging zone        0.20     0.06        0.15   0.04   0.20       0.06        0.15   0.04   0.64            0.19        0.43   0.13
To adjacent zones                0.35     0.10        0.25   0.08   0.35       0.10        0.25   0.08    1.12           0.32        0.S0   0.26
To other zones                   0.45     0.15        0.40   0.12   0.45       0.15        0.40   0.12   1.44            0.48         1.28   0.39
intastonal Cal                    USS                   USS           USS                   USS            USS                         USS
dialed per minute, minimum
minutes)
El Salvador                      0.60                 0.40           0.60                  0.40           0.60                       0.40
Costa Rica                       0.90                 0.60           0.90                  0.60           0.90                       0.60
Pananm                           1.05                 0.70           1.05                  0.70           0.90                       0.60
Mexico (DF)                      1.00                 0.70           1.00                  0.70           1.05                       0.70
USA - Miami                      1.30                 1.00           1.30                  1.00           1.00                       0.70
New York                  2.00                 1.65           2.00                  1.65           2.00                       1.65
Spain                            4.00                 3.00           4.00                  3.00          7.50                        6.20
1/ Including extenaion in the sa  house of ofice.
2V Renal does not include provision or maintenance of subscriber terminsl equipment
(telephoner PAX), but includes 400 local call impules. One impluse is recorded every I minute
and 30 seconds or fraction thereof from 7 AM to 7PM, and for every 2 minutes or fraction thereof from 7 PM to 7 AM.



39                                  '       Annex 15
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2385-GU)
Demand for Telephone Service
1980                     82,975                135,855                218,830                     37.92
1981                     88,587                161,230                249,817                     35.46
1982                     97,309                187,830                285,139                     34.13
1983                    105,729                218,587                324,316                      32.6
1984         125,000    117,151    212,100    249,281      337,100    366,432        37           31.97
1985         150,000    128,179    211,200    281,963      361,200    410,142       42            31.25
1986         175,000    130,971    214,100     322,780    389,100    453,751        45            28.86
1987         205,000    132,718    207,000    362,636    412,000    495,352         50            26.79
1988                    138,222                394,814                533,036                     25.93
1989                    158,840                411,704                570,544                     27.84
1990                    190,218                412,082                602,300                     31.58
1991         198,000    202,209                434,291     222,399    636,500        44           31.77
1992         220,500    236,300    232,039     437,200    452,539    673,500         49           35.09
Note: Projections from 1984 to 1987 are based on block by block estimates obtained in
Guatemala City and 60 other towns, including all 22 seats of provincial government.



