Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
_0
Report No. P-3716-GU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
February 8, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Foreign Exchange Rate         Parallel Foreign Exchange Rate (1983)
US$1.00  =  Q  1.00                        US$1.00  =  Q  1.35
Q  1.00  =  US$1.00                        Q  1.00  =  US$0.74
In this report, currency accounts are expressed in Quetzales (Q) and US
Dollars (US$) at the Official Foreign Exchange Rate.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CABEI    -  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM     -  Central American Common Market
DGCT     -  Direccion General de Correos y Telegrafos
DGRT     -  Direccion General de Radiodifusion y Television
GUATEL   -  Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones
ICB      -  International competitive bidding
IDB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
ITU      -  International Telecommunication Union
UHF      -  Ultra high frequency (300 - 3,000 MHz)
VHF      -  Very High Frequency (30 - 300 MHz)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL)
Guarantor:     Republic of Guatemala
Amount:        US$30.0 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:         Repayable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The project is comprised of the following:
(a)  rural telecommunications--about 8,000 exchange lines in
rural areas and provision of primary telecommunications
facilities to rural communities;
(b)  international network--extension of the Central
American international network and provision of a new
international exchange in Guatemala City, and
(c)  urban telecommunications and technical assistance--a
subproject which comprises (i) the installation of: a
total of about 109,600 additional lines of local
exchange equipment in urban areas with associated
cables to make about 100,000 additional connections and
provide about 3,500 public call office telephones;
eighteen microwave and radio systems with about 400
additional long distance circuits; a national long
distance exchange in Guatemala City; a computer; and
training equipment; (ii) construction of buildings; and
(iii) retention of foreign experts (7 staff-years) to
assist GUATEL in administration, planning, finance and
management.
Risk:          The principal risk is the possibility of delayed physical
implementation due to procedural delays and to unforeseen
circumstances. This is acceptable since in telecommunica-
tions projects such as the proposed project that involve a
relatively large number of independent works and activities,
delay in the completion of some works does not necessarily
prevent the utilization of other newly created assets.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                     US$ Million Equivalent
CostsiT/                             Local            Foreign           Total
Subproject (a)
Rural Services2/                       6.4             25.7               32.1
Subproject (b)
International Services2/               7.6             26.0              33.6
Subproject (c)
Local and Long Distance               17.4             66.7               84.1
Facilities
Computer                               0.4              3.0                3.4
Buildings, Towers and Roads            3.6               -                 3.6
Consultants                             -               1.0                1.0
Training                               1.1              0.7                1.8
Base Cost                         22.5              71.4              93.9
Contingencies:  physical               0.2               --                0.2
price                5.7               9.2              14.9
Total Sub-project Cost            28.4              80.6             109.0
Front-End Fee on Bank loans             --              0.4                0.4
Total Financing Required              42.4            132.7              175.1
Financing Plan:                                  US$ Million Equivalent
Local            Foreign           Total
IDB                                                    18.0               18.0
CABEI                                                  26.0              26.0
Suppliers/Export Credit                 -              40.8              40.8
GUATEL                                42.4             17.9              60.3
Bank                                    -              30.0              30.0
Total Financing                   42.4             132.7             175.1
1/ GUATEL is exempt from customs duties on imported goods and pays no local
taxes on goods and civil works.
2/ Including contingencies.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million Equivalent
Bank Fiscal Year                         1985       1986      1987
Annual                                      14.3       14.0       1.7
Cumulative                                  14.3       28.3      30.0
Rate of Return:      35 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 4034-GU, dated February 8, 1984.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA FOR A
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to the Empresa Guatemalteca de
Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL) with the guarantee of the Republic of Guatemala
to assist in the financing of a Third Telecommunications Project. The
loan, which includes a capitalized front-end fee of 1.5 percent, would have
a term of 15 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Guatemala Economic Memorandum" (Report No.
4195-GU) was circulated to the Board in June 1983. The conclusions of that
report are incorporated in this section. Annex I summarizes the main
social and economic indicators.
Overview
3.        Guatemala's population of about 7.5 million (mid-1982) is growing
at about 3.0 percent per year. Its most significant characteristic is a
sharp ethnic division. The Indians, about half of the total population,
constitute its poorest segment. The separation of the Indians from the
rest of society - of mixed ancestry and European origin - has its roots in
cultural and linguistic differences, and has been exacerbated by lack of
access to good land, public services, and employment in the modern
sectors. Malnutrition is severe and infant mortality is high. The adult
literacy rate is only 46 percent, one of the lowest in Latin America. The
high population density (262 per square kilometer of agricultural land) is
nearly triple the average in Latin American countries.
Resources
4.        Guatemala has a diversified physical environment.  The varied
climate and dispersion of good soils allow cultivation of a variety of
agricultural products. The country has some petroleum and nickel deposits
1/ This is identical to Part I of the President's Report for the proposed
Industrial Credit Project.



- 2 -
as well as substantial hydro-electric power potential and some exploitable
geothermal fields. Guatemala's natural beauty, mild climate, archeological
monuments, and proximity to the United States constitute a good potential
for tourism development.
Structure of the Economy
5.        The small size of the country makes external markets important to
growth, while making the economy vulnerable to fluctuations in inter-
national prices. Exports of primary agricultural and manufactured
products (mainly consumer goods) have been a major source of growth.
Primary products are exported to the U.S., Europe, and Japan. A major
share of manufactured exports is oriented to other countries of the Central
American Common Market (CACM). Guatemala has consistently achieved trade
surpluses vis-a-vis other CACM members, but the dynamism and growth poten-
tial of this market has been reduced recently by economic and political
problems in the region.
6.        Agriculture, manufacturing, tourism and, recently, oil are
important sectors in Guatemala. Agricultural output growth at 3.8 percent
a year during 1965-1982 has been among the highest in Latin America; the
sector presently generates over one-fourth of GDP and about half of total
employment and exports (mainly coffee, cotton, sugar, bananas, and beef).
Savings from export agriculture provide a substantial share of investment
financing. Industrial output, which grew at an annual rate of about 5.8
percent during 1965-82, presently contributes over one-fifth of GDP,
employs one-sixth of the labor force, and accounts for about one-third of
exports. In the mid-1970s, tourism expanded to rank third after coffee and
cotton as a foreign exchange earner. Tourism earnings, however, fell from
about US$82 million in 1979 to US$12 million in 1982 as political tensions
in the region increased and security conditions in Guatemala worsened.
Crude oil production started in 1979 and reached about 10,000 barrels per
day in 1983, equivalent to one-fourth of domestic consumption. About half
of the production is exported, since it cannot be used domestically because
of its high sulphur content. Proven oil reserves are modest, estimated to
last about six years at the current rate of production. Exploration conti-
nues, however, and the Government hopes to confirm larger reserves.
Growth Paths
7.        Until the 1960s, Guatemala's growth originated mostly from
exports of traditional products. During the 1960s and early 1970s, indus-
trial growth was stimulated by Guatemala's participation in the CACM, which
provided manufacturing firms with a larger protected market. This period
saw the emergence of a dynamic industrial class. However, as the limit of
expansion of the CACM trade was approached, further development of industry
was constrained. This limitation, combined with a decline in world demand
for traditional export crops, underscored the need to broaden the basis for
economic growth. Towards this end, the Government is taking steps to re-
orient its incentive system to encourage non-traditional exports to markets
outside the CACM, both in industry and in agriculture, to stimulate the
domestic economy through their multiplier effects.



-3-
Recent Growth Trends
8.        Between 1965 and 1978, Guatemala enjoyed steady and substantial
economic growth with a low rate of inflation. GDP grew at six percent per
year, fostered by favorable world prices for the country's traditional
exports, growth of manufactured goods to CACM countries and expansion of
tourism. The private sector played a major role in diversifying exports by
developing cotton and sugar plantations, and by creating the largest indus-
trial sector in Central America. During the last six years, however, the
country experienced serious economic difficulties caused mainly by (i)
falling world demand and prices for Guatemala's traditional export crops
and rising international prices which led to a 24 percent deterioration in
the terms of trade; (ii) payment difficulties in the CACM, which adversely
affected exports of manufactures; and (iii) political developments in
Central America which discouraged private investment and foreign financing
while stimulating private capital outflows. All of these unfavorable deve-
lopments resulted in a significant deceleration in GDP growth from five
percent in 1978 to less than one percent in 1981 and a decline in 1982 to
minus 3.5 percent and in 1983 to minus 2.3 percent.
Fiscal and Balance of Payments Policies
9.        Government policies until the late 1970s have given top priority
to financial stability and to providing a favorable climate for domestic
and foreign investors. Key elements of this approach have been a strong
and stable currency, freedom from external payments restrictions, import
protection through the CACM common tariff, and minimal taxation. Current
public revenues fluctuated around 12 percent of GDP; current expenditures,
around 9 percent; public investment, about four to five percent; and the
public deficit, about two to three percent. The level of public expendi-
ture was low, compared with that of countries at a similar stage of econo-
mic development, and economic growth benefitted only a small segment of the
population. Basic services, particularly in, education, health and rural
developments, remained inadequate.
10.       During 1980-81, there was a departure from the generally cautious
fiscal and monetary policies. In an effort to stimulate the economy, the
Government increased public investment to 7.4 percent of GDP in 1980 and to
8.6 percent in 1981. However, a sharp decline of fiscal revenues from
foreign trade and domestic production brought about a substantial deterio-
ration of public savings which dropped to about 1.1 percent of GDP in
1981. The public deficit reached 6.8 percent of GDP in 1981 and was
financed mostly through an expansion of Central Bank credit, which tripled
in 1980 and doubled again in 1981. The rate of inflation increased to 9.5
percent per annum on the average during these two years.
11.       Expansionary fiscal policies in 1980-81 were accompanied by large
external imbalances which drained international reserves. Imports
continued to increase while depressed export proceeds caused an acute



- 4 -
shortage of foreign exchange. The current account deficit of the balance
of payments increased from 2.6 percent of GDP in 1979 to 6.5 percent in
1981. Low levels of official external financing, difficulties in collect-
ing payments in convertible currencies from other CACM countries, drying up
of foreign commercial bank and supplier credits and net private capital
outflows of about 2.8 percent of GDP annually further exacerbated the
foreign exchange shortage. To protect reserves, exchange controls were
introduced in 1980 and made more stringent in 1981, while the Central Bank
increased its borrowing from foreign sources. Nevertheless, net foreign
exchange reserves decreased to US$23.5 million at the end of 1981, equiva-
lent to about 0.2 months worth of merchandise imports (compared to US$733.1
million, equivalent to 6.3 months of merchandise imports in 1978).
12.       The Government which took office in March 1982 started addressing
the rapidly deteriorating economic situation by taking austerity measures
aimed at containing the disequilibrium in public finances and balance of
payments. Total Government expenditures in 1982-83 were about 20 percent
below the level in 1981 as a result of sharp cutbacks in both current and
capital spending. Current expenditure was reduced mainly through a freeze
in Government salaries, reductions in personnel and cuts in budget alloca-
tions of goods and services. Costly, low priority infrastructure projects
were either postponed or cancelled. As a result, the central government
deficit was cut to 4.6 percent in 1982 and about 3 percent in 1983, from
7.4 percent in 1981. The growth of domestic credit to the public sector
also dropped, to about 30 percent from 97 percent in 1981, and the rate of
inflation decreased to about six percent. In November 1982, the ceilings
on domestic interest rates were lowered to 12 percent (for loans) and to 9
percent (for deposits) in line with the downward trend of domestic infla-
tion and foreign interest rates.
13.       The current account deficit of the balance of payments also
diecreased to 3.8 percent in 1982 and about 2.6 percent in 1983, as imports
ideclined more rapidly than exports reflecting the decline in economic acti-
vity as well as an intensification of exchange controls. Net short term
capital outflow decreased. However, falling long-term capital receipts
were insufficient to finance the current deficit. To cut the loss of gross
reserves, the Government introduced restrictions on import payments and
delayed the processing of commercial payments, resulting in arrears of
about US$280 million at the end of 1983. Pressure on the quetzal resulted
in a premium of 30-35 percent for the dollar on the officially tolerated
parallel market. The loss in net reserves was sharply reduced in 1982 and
was reversed in 1983.
:L4.      Based on a stabilization program, the Government reached agree-
ment with the IMF for a stand-by arrangement of US$120 million equivalent
(upper credit tranches) over the period August 1983-December 1984. Through
1983, Guatemala has qualified for all purchases available under the stand-
by. In the external sector, the stabilization program aims at achieving a
small overall surplus in 1984 and a reduction of payment arrears, while
relaxing exchange controls. The stabilization program is predicated on
achieving further progress in the fiscal area, including a tax reform to
improve the efficiency of the tax system and to support production and



-5-
exports with a view toward encouraging rapid economic recovery. The
program aims at containing the overall public sector deficit at 3.0 percent
in 1984, while increasing government current and capital expenditures to
support a larger development effort, particularly to reduce poverty in
rural areas and diversify exports. During 1984, the Government expects
that the main contribution to adjustment will come from tax reform
legislation which was enacted in 1983, and is designed to improve the over-
all efficiency of the tax system. The main component of the reform is the
substitution of a value added tax for the existing sales (stamp) tax. The
new tax is expected to reduce significantly tax evasion. In addition, the
existing progressive rate structure of the corporate income tax has been
simplified; a new tax on the net income of financial institutions has been
introduced; taxation of credits, transfers and repatriated income of
foreign investors has been changed to be comparable to that of other
countries with the view to encourage foreign investment; and taxation of
beverages and other selected items has been increased. To support produc-
tion and improve export competitiveness, the tax package provides for
exemption of exports from the value added tax, progressive elimination of
all other taxes on exports over the next three years and tax credits of up
to 15 percent for non-traditional exports outside the CACM. The
Government's budget for 1984 envisages a modest increase of current expen-
diture (about 11 percent) and a significant increase of current revenues
(about 24 percent) from the depressed levels of 1983, with the objective of
financing about US$418 million of capital expenditures. Although much
higher than capital expenditures in 1983 (US$287 million), the 1984 level
would be near the levels achieved in the late 1970s.
15.       As regards credit, the program calls for a slowdown in the growth
of overall domestic bank credit to a rate consistent with approximate equi-
librium in the overall balance of payments. A significant part of this
deceleration is to result from the fiscal measures and the resulting reduc-
tion in credit demands. The authorities have stated their intention to
follow a flexible interest rate policy, to ensure that domestic interest
rates in the banking system continue to be positive in real terms and
competitive with comparable rates abroad. Elimination of a 3 percent stamp
tax on bank credits in the context of the tax reform has helped to reduce
the excessive cost of short-term borrowing.
External Debt
16.       Apart from the Bank, official external financing has been
provided primarily by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI), the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the Investment Fund of Venezuela
(VIF). IDB funds carried a substantial concessional element and often con-
tained components repayable in local currency. The IDB made loans for
agriculture (credit, irrigation and fisheries), industry, electric power,
transportation, rural education, water supply, and health services. CABEI
concentrated mainly on regional projects in highways, telecommunications,
and in recent years, on power and water supply projects. USAID mainly



-6-
financed rural development, rural electrification, rural education and
health facilities. VIF assisted in power generation and transmission.
17.       The external public debt of Guatemala is low by international
comparisons. In 1982, its outstanding and disbursed medium- and long-term
public external debt amounted to only 12.6 percent of GDP. Service pay-
ments on that debt were equivalent to 6.8 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services. International agencies accounted for 46.8 percent of
total disbursed and outstanding debt in 1982. The Bank's share of the debt
outstanding was 16.6 percent and its share of service was 25.2 percent in
1982. Of other major lenders to Guatemala, IDB holds 21.7 percent of
external public debt outstanding, VIF 18.8 percent, CABEI 8.3 percent, and
USAID 7.6 percent.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
18.       The country is facing liquidity problems in the external sector
as well as in the fiscal accounts. The authorities are addressing these
problems within the framework of the stabilization program agreed upon with
the IMF. In the medium- and long-term, economic prospects of Guatemala
should improve, and the economy might sustain a growth rate of three to
four percent, provided the authorities continue to carry out a comprehen-
sive development effort. The Government is about to complete preparation
of a 1984-87 development program and has sent the Bank a statement of the
main policies it intends to follow. These policies aim at (i) strengthen-
ing private investment incentives and promoting labor intensive production;
(ii) stimulating financial savings and private capital inflows; (iii)
increasing public savings to enable public enterprises to finance a larger
part of their capital outlays from their own resources; (iv) modernizing
and diversifying industrial and agricultural enterprises; (v) re-orienting
incentives to favor non-traditional exports to markets outside the CACM;
and (vi) shifting away from infrastructure investments, in favor of produc-
tive and social sectors. The Governement is expected to use external debt
capacity prudently to address the problems in productive sectors and in a
few main social areas, in order to reactivate the economy, expand public
services for the urban and rural poor and reduce social tensions. Thus, if
the country continues to carry out economic programs in line with those of
the recent past, Guatemala is considered creditworthy for Bank lending. In
view of the country's pressing need for development finance and considering
the Government's progress and planned efforts to contain the public sector
deficit and to redirect expenditures to social services for low-income
groups, Guatemala's poverty-oriented development projects merit support
beyond their foreign exchange costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       Guatemala to date has received Bank loans totaling US$293.7
million (including US$20 million on third window terms) for 13 projects.
Of these, three were for education; four for power; two for telecommunica-



- 7 -
tions; two for highways; one for livestock development; and one for earth-
quake reconstruction. Seven Bank-financed projects have been completed in
Guatemala, three in electric power and one each in telecommunications, edu-
cation, livestock and highways. Performance audit reports have been issued
for two power projects, and the livestock, education and telecommunications
projects.   The performance audits conclude that project objectives
generally have been achieved; however, implementation has been much slower
than forecast during appraisal. Effectiveness of all Bank loans has been
delayed because of a lengthy ratification process. Most projects now under
implementation have also been delayed by the limited administrative capa-
city of the institutions involved as well as weak inter-agency coordina-
tion. However, disbursements of Bank loans have reached a satisfactory
pace in the past two years. Two large power projects have accounted for
the bulk of disbursements since 1978. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
20.       Bank financing for infrastructure projects has supported the
creation of more efficient public agencies. It also has been instrumental
in maintaining a Bank presence in the country through lending operations,
while continuing a dialogue with the authorities on the desirability and
implementation of a larger development effort. Bank lending for education
has more directly encouraged the undertaking of key development challenges
we believe the Government faces--such as expanding the provision of basic
services, both productive and social, to the rural and urban poor, and
supporting the formation of a modern industrial private sector--with the
objective of promoting economic diversification and easing the growing
social tensions which have characterized Guatemala's recent past.
Encouraging progress has been made in the last two years in the Bank's dia-
logue on sectoral and project issues.
21.       IFC has made three investments in Guatemala.  The first, a
US$200,000 loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The
second, a loan of US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras
Izabal, S.A. (EXMIBAL), a company established in Guatemala to exploit the
nickel ore deposit at Lake Izabal in eastern Guatemala, was approved in
July, 1973. After some initial delays in finalizing the project design and
in arranging additional financing made necessary by substantial cost over-
runs, the plant began operations in mid-1977. The third was a loan of US$3
million to Cementos Progreso S.A. (formerly Cementos Novella S.A.), a
Guatemalan enterprise, to help finance an expansion of its existing cement
production facilities. The expansion was completed and commercial opera-
tions started in 1979.
22.       The pipeline of projects for Bank consideration has improved over
the last two years. A Basic Education Project to assist in textbook devel-
opment, construction of primary schools in poor urban areas and education
planning was approved by the Board in June 1983. An Industrial Credit
Project is scheduled for Board consideration shortly. A Power Distribution
Project has been appraised; it includes measures for the rationalization
and strengthening of the institutional framework of the energy sector. The
Government has requested Bank assistance in preparing projects in the
fields of low-cost housing, productivity of small farmers, water supply and



export diversification, and in strengthening the country's ability to plan
and carry out public investment projects.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector Organization
23.       Public telecommunications services in Guatemala are operated by a
corporation, Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL), and two
departments in the Ministry of Communications, Direccion General de Correos
y Telegrafos (DGCT) and Direccion General de Radiodifusion y Television
(DGRT).
24.       GUATEL was established in 1971 as an autonomous, state-owned,
commercially-oriented enterprise responsible for the maintenance and opera-
tion of all public telecommunications services in Guatemala, except domes-
tic telegraph. According to its charter, GUATEL has authority to decide on
its development policies, tariffs, investment programs, annual budgets,
borrowing, organization and staffing. In practice, it has to seek the
opinion of the country's planning agency, the Secretaria General del
Consejo Nacional de Planificacion Economica, and the concurrence of the
Ministry of Finance on tariff changes, investment programs, and foreign
financing.
25.       Domestic public telegraph service and the postal service are
operated by DGCT, a government department in the Ministry of Communica-
tions. DGCT operates an outdated network of manual telegraphs, magneto
telephones and open wire lines interconnecting 542 telegraph/postal offices
throughout the country. The Government intends to modernize the system and
plans to appoint an interagency committee to study appropriate solutions
and draw up plans for phasing out the manual network.
26.       The Ministry of Communications regulates the use of radio fre-
quencies, and licenses their use by public and private entities. At
present there are about 2,900 licensed private radio links and networks
(mostly VHF), operated by public utilities, industries, farms, and others.
There are about 110 radio broadcasting stations (of which 10 are state-
owned) and five television networks (one state-owned). GUATEL provides
leased facilities for transmission of domestic and international programs.
27.       Manufacturing of telecommunications materials in Guatemala is
limited to posts (concrete, metal) and polyvinyl chloride ducts. Telephone
cables of up to 800-pair capacity are manufactured in Costa Rica and El
Salvador, where posts, ducts and hardware are also produced.   Local pri-
vate contractors are used for part of the civil works and the installation
of ducts, cables and rural telephone systems. Foreign suppliers usually
undertake with GUATEL's support the installation of new types of equip-
ment.    GUATEL executes part of the construction and cable installation
works.



- 9 -
Access, Usage, Facilities and Quality of Service
28.       As of end 1983, Guatemala had an average main telephone density
of about 1.4 telephone lines in service per 100 inhabitants. This is below
the average for all other Central American countries except Honduras (0.8),
and compares unfavorably with the averages for Central America (about 2.0
lines) and Latin America (about 4.0). Existing telephone service is con-
centrated in the metropolitan area of Guatemala City, which has about 12
percent of the country's population and 85 percent of all telephone lines.
Nonetheless, with a density of about 9.7 lines per 100 inhabitants,
Guatemala City ranks well below several other Latin American capitals
(e.g., San Jose 16, Montevideo 13). Only 51 of the country's 304 seats of
local government (cabeceras municipales) have telephone service. There are
only 1,060 public call office or coinbox telephones in the country, or one
for every 7,500 inhabitants. Overall, only about 25 percent of the
country's population has local access to telephone service.
29.       Business and government subscribers account for a large part of
the traffic--particularly long distance and international services--and are
estimated to contribute over 60 percent of the total revenues. The share
of business activities, however, is probably higher than recorded since a
considerable proportion of telephones classified as residential serve both
business and personal activities.
30.       In recent years, the installation of subscriber lines was slowed
down by a lack of timely development of the cable network and protracted
supplier-related technical difficulties which prevented a new type of elec-
tronic exchange equipment from working at full capacity. As a result, at
the end of 1983 only 35 percent of the expressed demand for lines, total-
ling 312,300, was met by the 108,500 lines in service. Increased calling
rates per telephone connected has created considerable local network con-
gestion in the main cities, made worse by repeat call attempts. Long dis-
tance and international facilities are adequate, but congestion at the
local level also affects these services and results in a high proportion of
incompleted call attempts.
31.       Based on block by block estimates in Guatemala City and 60 other
cities and towns, on actual and expected land use patterns and on assump-
tions on demand per dwelling and business in various categories, GUATEL
forecasts that demand will total about 412,000 by end 1987--a 7.2 percent
annual growth rate. These forecasts are conservative, even in light of
the overall slow growth of the economy in recent years. Nonetheless, sig-
nificant uncertainties affect these forecasts, as they are based on 1976
estimates. As part of the project, GUATEL will develop an improved system
of demand forecasting by: (a) using market surveys and other sources; (b)
periodically updating block by block surveys; (c) comparing forecasts with
empirical evidence; (d) identifying users of services, cost of service, and
demand characteristics in the course of the tariff structure study; (e)
improving the reliability of local traffic data; and (f) consolidating
long-term planning functions and building up in-house economic expertise.
Provisions are included in the project to finance experts and training to



- 10 -
help GUATEL in carrying out these tasks under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
Sector Goals
32.       The Government's stated long-term objectives for the telecommuni-
cations sector are to meet demand, modernize existing services,introduce
new ones, and keep operations profitable and capable of generating part of
the funds needed for investment. In working towards these goals, GUATEL
prepared, with ITU assistance, a master plan for the period 1981-2000 in
four five-year stages, with the number of telephone lines increasing to
483,000 in 1990. Based on the actual number of lines in service and a
realistic assessment of the executing capacity of GUATEL, a revised 1984-87
program was prepared with Bank staff assistance. This program is feasible
and adequately reflects Government development priorities. The program im-
plies raising the number of telephone lines added per year from about 7,100
in the period 1975-82 to about 17,000 in 1984, 25,000 in 1985 and 1986; and
30,000 in 1987. Total exchange capacity would increase from 146,800 in
1982 to about 290,000 in 1987; connected lines, from 97,500 to about
205,000. The percentage of total demand covered by lines in service would
improve from 35 percent in 1983 to about 50 percent in 1987. Telephone
lines outside Guatemala City would increase more rapidly than in the capi-
tal and would account for 24 percent of the total, compared with 15 percent
in 1982. Over the period, the share of population with access to tele-
phones would increase from 25 percent to 35 percent; the number of public
telephones and of municipalities with telephone service would increase more
than five times, reaching 6,180 and 250, respectively.
Bank Assistance
33.       GUATEL has received two Bank loans.  The first loan (Loan 792-GU
of January 5, 1972), of US$16.0 million equivalent, financed the provision
and extension of local, long distance and international telecommunications
facilities. The project was satisfactorily completed in December 1978
(Project Completion Report of May 17, 1979) after delays which resulted
from an earthquake in 1976. The second loan (Loan 1104-GU of April 29,
1975), of US$26 million equivalent, assisted in financing jointly with the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) a further improve-
ment and expansion of these services. The project is now expected to be
completed by February 1984, about three and a half years later than origi-
nally envisaged, mainly due to technical problems affecting several large
telephone exchanges (paragraph 30).
34.       The Bank's past participation has enabled Guatemala to (a) re-
organize the sector prior to the first loan by merging separate entities
and establish GUATEL as the sole agency responsible for telephone and telex
services; (b) begin to establish a modern long distance telecommunications
network with the associated long distance exchange at Guatemala City to
link the principal areas of the country and to initiate a national subscri-
ber dialing network; (c) expand the local telephone services in Guatemala
Guatemala City and in a number of provincial towns; and (d) create a
financial base for further development of telecommunications facilities.



- 11 -
35.       The Bank's participation through a third loan to GUATEL aims at:
(a) helping design and implement organization and management improve-
ments which would enable GUATEL to increase the pace of expansion
of its services about twofold over the project period, and to
efficiently maintain and operate a greatly expanded telecommuni-
cations system (paragraph 38);
(b) strengthening through GUATEL the participation of private entre-
preneurs in the sector, while ensuring overall system compatibi-
lity and performance (paragraph 38);
(c) promoting the continuation of substantial net transfers from
GUATEL to government to be used in other sectors less capable of
mobilizing domestic resources (paragraph 50);
(d) strengthening GUATEL's capacity to plan future investment (para-
graph 31) and establishing tariffs leading to more efficient use
of plant and allocation of new resources (paragraph 51); and
(e) helping finance GUATEL's 1984-87 program, together with sup-
pliers, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration and
the Inter-American Development Bank (paragraph 40).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
General
36.       The proposed project was prepared by GUATEL and approved by the
Government of Guatemala. The Government presented the project to the Bank
in June 1981 with a request for financing. A Bank mission appraised the
project in February 1982 and negotiations with GUATEL and the Government
were held in Washington, D.C., from October 4 to 8, 1982. The Guatemalan
Delegation was headed by Mr. Leonel Gonzales, Advisor to the Minister of
Finance, and Mr. David Monzon, Member of the Board of Directors of GUATEL.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled: "Guatemala: Third Telecommunications
Project" No. 4034-GU, dated February 8, 1984 has been distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. A loan and project summary appears at the
beginning of this report, and a supplementary data sheet is given in Annex
III.
Project Description
37.       The proposed project is a high priority self-contained part of
GUATEL's 1984-87 development program. It provides for a balanced and inte-
grated development of local, long distance national and international
services in urban and rural areas. The project comprises the following
three subprojects which can be executed independently:



- 12 -
(A) extension of rural services by the installation of about
8,000 exchange lines, and providing primary telecommuni-
cations facilities to communities currently without such
services--this subproject is partially financed by a US$18
million loan from IDB;
(B) extension of the Central American international network and
provision of a new international exchange in Guatemala
City--this subproject is to be partially financed by a
US$26.0 million loan from CABEI; and
(C) a subproject proposed to be partially financed by the Bank
and suppliers' credits comprising the following:
(a) the installation of:
(i) a total of about 109,600 additional lines of local ex-
change equipment (79,000 lines in Guatemala City and
30,600 lines in 24 provincial towns), with associated
cables to make about 100,000 additional connections and
provide about 3,500 public telephones;
(ii) eleven microwave radio and seven UHF/VHF systems with
about 400 additional long distance circuits;
(iii) a national long distance exchange in Guatemala City;
(iv) computer equipment for GUATEL's data processing
service;
(v) training equipment;
(b) the construction of buildings to house equipment; and
(c) the retention of foreign experts (seven staffyears) to
assist GUATEL in administration, planning, finance and
management.
Institutional Improvements
38.       Even after the progress made under the  First and Second Tele-
communications Projects, the need for further institution building in the
sector is substantial. Although direct lines installed grew from about
39,000 to about 108,500 since the initiation of the First Telecommunica-
tions Project in 1972, a large backlog of unsatisfied demand has resulted
from the rapid growth of economic and commercial activities over the last
installations in recent years. The sector therefore is facing an urgent
need for a very rapid increase of the connection rate. Under the proposed
expansion program, the number of telephone lines added each year is



- 13 -
scheduled to increase rapidly from about 6,000-8,000 lines per year in the
past, to about 30,000 per year by 1987. GUATEL's capacity to undertake
this large investment program is being augmented by resorting increasingly
to private contractors for the construction of cable plant, and to sup-
pliers for installation of equipment as well as for its first year mainten-
ance; house wiring might also be executed by private contractors. However,
the major increase in size of operations will require a number of organiza-
tional changes and improvements within GUATEL to (a) streamline the com-
mercial, administrative and technical functions involved in processing new
lines from application through installation; (b) strengthen project coordi-
nation and supervision as the size, number and dispersion of works increase
and more suppliers and contractors are involved; (c) revise organization
and staffing accordingly; and (d) establish standards for subscriber-owned
terminal equipment to ensure systemwide technical compatibility and ade-
quate maintenance. These changes, and a strengthening of GUATEL's finan-
cial management, investment planning and policy-making capability initial-
ly focussing on tariffs and demand forecasting, constitute the core of a
package of institutional development for which seven staffyears of foreign
experts will be retained under the project, with a total foreign exchange
cost of about US$1,000,000.
Project Cost and Financing
39.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about Q 175.1
million (US$175.1 million) including the front-end fee. The foreign
exchange component is US$132.7 million equivalent, or about 76 percent of
project cost. The project cost estimates are reasonable. The costs
reflect estimated December 1982 prices based on GUATEL's experience with
contracts relating to ongoing works and those signed for goods under Loan
1104-GU, and on experience in other countries, with adjustments for
inflation to bring them up to an end 1983 level. GUATEL is exempt from
payment of customs duties on imported goods and pays no local taxes on
goods and civil works. Price contingencies for the Bank subproject amount
to 15.8 percent of total base and physical contingency costs. They result
from the year-by-year estimates of local cost increases of 12 percent
annually from 1984 through 1987; and foreign cost increases of 7.5 iercent
in 1984; 7.0 percent in 1985; and 6.0 percent in 1986 and 1987. The
foreign cost increases are applied to the contract date since all contracts
in this sector are made on a fixed price basis. Contracts are likely to be
signed by end 1984, and most of the equipment would be delivered by end
1985. The foreign and local cost increases are in line with the Bank's
guidelines. Except for variations in quantities which could occur in civil
works and for which a physical contingency amounting to five percent of
local costs has been provided, no other physical contingencies for the Bank
subproject are considered necessary. The proposed quantities of equipment
are based on detailed forecasts and engineering, and are not expected to
change significantly. According to experience, any unexpected increases of
transmission equipment on some routes will be compensated by corresponding
unexpected decreases on other routes. The dispersion of cable networks
throughout the country permits adjustments which make provision of physical
contingencies unnecessary.



- 14 -
40.       To finance the project, GUATEL would contribute from its
internally generated resources US$60.3 million equivalent, or about 34
percent of total project costs. The foreign cost of about US$132.7 million
would be financed by:
(i) a US$18.0 million loan by IDB, with a maturity of 40 years,
including a 10 year grace period, and interest of 1 percent
per annum during the grace period and 2 percent thereafter,
for the rural telephones subproject (A) of paragraph 37;
(ii) a US$26.0 million loan by CABEI, with a maturity of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, and interest of 12
percent per annum, for the international network subproject
(B) of paragraph 37;
(iii) about US$40.8 million in suppliers' and export credit for
the local and long distance switching and pulse modulation
equipment required for the installation of about 97,200
lines of local exchange out of the 109,600 lines included in
C(a) (i) and B long distance exchange included in C(a) (iii)
of paragraph 37; on request by GUATEL, the Bank has assisted
in seeking financing from officially supported credit
institutions;
(iv) the proposed US$30.0 million Bank loan, for other components
of subproject (C) in paragraph 37, i.e. cables, transmission
equipment, computer system, emergency power plant, coin box
telephones, a small extension of existing exchange equipment
(paragraph 42) and technical assistance;
(v) US$17.9 million from GUATEL's internally generated funds.
GUATEL would finance all the local costs amounting to US$42.4 million
equivalent. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government will
promptly make available to GUATEL any funds necessary for project
completion (Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
41.       Bids have been received for the supply contracts and credit
offers for the switching equipment described in para. 40 (iii) above,
costing about US$45.0 million (including contingencies), and which is not
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan. Based on these bids,
we are satisfied that cost estimates of the project are reasonable and that
supplier'/bilateral credits are available and acceptable. Bid evaluation
is expected to be completed by June, 1984, and would be based on an
assessment of technical responsiveness and the combined cost and credit
terms by comparing the present values of the flows of payments and
servicing of the credits. The award would be made on the basis of the
lowest evaluated bid taking into account financing terms. The Government
and GUATEL have requested Bank assistance in the tendering and bid
evaluation, to assure that the choice of the supplier is technically sound,



- 15 -
that appropriate quality standards will be observed, and that coordination
with the execution of the other components of the subproject will be satis-
factory. The Bank has reviewed the bid documents and would also review
GUATEL's bid award recommendations (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Assurances have been obtained from GUATEL at negotiations that the
Bank would have access to the relevant switching facilities and construc-
tion sites, and to information reasonably needed for the coordinated execu-
tion of the various project components (Section 3.04(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
42.       Other equipment for the urban telecommunications part of the pro-
ject totalling US$28.1 million (including contingencies) has been grouped
in appropriate bidding packages to be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualifying Manufacturers from
Central American countries would receive a preference in bid evaluation of
15 percent, or the import duty, whichever is lower. Among the goods pro-
posed for Bank financing, only cables, estimated to cost US$7.7 million,
are manufactured in some Central American countries. Switching equipment
in an amount not to exceed US$500,000 for the extension of lines in two
small exchanges procured through international competitive bidding under
Bank Loan 1104-GU, would be obtained through negotiated purchases with
existing suppliers (Schedule 4 Part C of the draft Loan Agreement). This
is justified for purposes of standardization, full use of the floor space
planned for such extensions in existing buildings, and economies resulting
from the use of existing common equipment. The Bank will ensure that the
prices are reasonable. All Bank-financed bidding packages (five in total)
for goods are estimated to cost over US$1.0 million equivalent each and
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation.
43.       Extensions to existing equipment totalling US$5.3 million, to be
financed from GUATEL's own resources, would be imported after negotiations
with existing suppliers. Cable ducts and some external plant totalling US$
4.0 million which are manufactured locally and would be financed from
GUJATEL's own resources, would be obtained through local procurement proce-
dures, which permit competition and are satisfactory. The Bank has
assisted in drawing up terms of reference for the consultants. Goods for
the IDB and CABEI subprojects would be procured in accordance with the
guidelines of the respective institutions.
44.       Loan disbursements have been estimated on the basis of the above
schedule of procurement. Disbursements would be made for 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for all goods and consultants. Contracts for public
call offices and consultants are expected to be signed in March 1984 and up
to US$350,000 of retroactive financing, or 1.2 percent of the loan amount,
would be disbursed in respect of expenditures made after January 1, 1984.
Where called for in the contract, disbursements would include the foreign
costs of installation of goods. All disbursements would be fully documen-
ted. The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1988.



- 16 -
Project Implementation
45.       Organization and Management.  Based on the experience it gained
under the first and second projects, GUATEL prepared engineering designs,
bid documents and technical specifications for all Bank financed goods in
the project. GUATEL would supervise the work of contractors employed to
lay, joint and terminate all cables; would second its staff to assist the
supplier in the installation of the exchanges; and would carry out the
acceptance testing of all equipment installed. GUATEL's management has the
experience required for the execution of the project. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.
46.       The Borrower.  GUATEL would be the Borrower under the proposed
loan. GUATEL is administered by a five member Board of Directors compri-
sing the Minister of Communications, the Minister of External Affairs, the
Minister of the Interior and two other directors appointed by the President
of the Republic. The Board and the management are vested with adequate
powers to carry out their duties effectively. GUATEL's day-to-day business
is administered by the general manager and the deputy general manager. Its
organization, which is similar to that existing in other autonomous tele-
communications enterprises, comprises five divisions dealing with adminis-
tration, financial matters, planning and design, operation and maintenance,
and construction and supervision, respectively. Field activities are
directly controlled from headquarters in Guatemala City. The current orga-
nizational setup has functioned satisfactorily with the present level of
GUATEL's operations. The 1984-87 period, however, will be one with a
greatly expanded level of investments and operations; this will require
major upgrading and streamlining of administration and financial manage-
ment, improvements in work coordination and supervision, laying down norms
for operations, and establishing staff strength to achieve the scheduled
grade of service. For this purpose, GUATEL proposes to retain foreign
experts to assist in institutional development. In total about seven staff
years of experts would be required at an average cost of about US$12,000
per staff month, including travel and subsistence. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that GUATEL would retain such experts in accor-
dance with Bank guidelines with qualifications and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
selection of such experts is about to be completed.
47.       Staffing and Training.  GUATEL has sufficient qualified staff to
carry out the project and its technical training facilities are adequate.
With the improvements which are planned in management and staffing, GUATEL
should also be able to manage efficiently the greatly expanded operations
resulting from the project. As of December 31, 1983, GUATEL's staff
totalled 3,500 to operate about 108,500 main lines. The staff ratio of
about 32 per 1,000 main lines is satisfactory, considering that GUATEL
maintains long distance overhead line facilities to remote areas. With
their replacement by radio systems and further automation of long distance
traffic under the proposed project, the staff ratio is expected to decrease
to 25 in 1987, when about 205,000 lines will be in operation. GUATEL plans



- 17 -
to establish a staffing plan with specific recruitment targets for all
levels and types of staff, together with an appropriate salary structure to
retain experienced staff on a full time basis. The ITU has assisted GUATEL
in setting up and operating a training center which provides training in
all of the specialist areas required by the organization. GUATEL also
makes use of training facilities provided by other national institutions
and by a regional telecommunications training center in El Salvador. Some
specialized telecommunications training is provided by equipment
suppliers. Additional training needs to be provided only for the staff of
the finance department.
48.       Accounting and Audits.  Under the proposed project, about 24
staffmonths of technical assistance would be provided to the finance
department to prepare and start a staff training program; improve accrual
accounting systems and procedures; and computer programming. In November
7, 1980, the Government instructed all public enterprises to introduce a
cash accounting system similar to its own. Following negotiations, the
Government confirmed that this would not be required for enterprises with a
commercial character. Assurances were obtained that GUATEL will continue
to maintain an accrual accounting system (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). GUATEL's accounts are subject to internal audit by a statutory
auditor and to control-of-payments audits by the Contraloria de Cuentas, a
government auditing body. GUATEL engaged the firm of Lizarralde y Ayestas
(associated with Arthur Young) for the external audit; the current
arrangements are satisfactory. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from GUATEL that it will continue to engage external auditors
satisfactory to the Bank and that it will transmit the auditor's report to
the Bank within four months from the end of each fiscal year (Section 5.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Financial Aspects.  GUATEL's financial performance during the
period 1975-82 has been generally satisfactory, both in terms of rate of
return and of internal cash generation. The revenue covenant of the second
project (Loan 1104-GU) has been met except in 1977, and rental tariffs were
increased by about 40 percent in May of 1978. The rate of return on
revalued average net fixed assets in operation was about 15 percen. in
1979, 17 percent in 1980 and 11 percent in 1981. Although the rate of
return fell slightly below 10 percent in 1982 and 1983, cash flow remained
satisfactory. Net internal cash generation averaged 63 percent of total
applications in 1978-83 and is forecast to finance 52 percent of total
applications during the project implementation period. At end 1982,
GUATEL's current assets were 1.3 times current liabilities, and its
long-term debt equalled about 33 percent of total capitalization; this
indicates a strong financial position and substantial capacity for
additional borrowing. During negotiations GUATEL agreed that (i) it will
take measures, including tariff changes, so as to achieve a rate of return
on revalued average net fixed assets in operation of at least 12 percent in
1984 and at least 13 percent starting in 1985 and thereafter (Section 5.05
(a) of the draft Loan Agreement), and (ii) it will not incur any additional
capital expenditures in excess of Q3 million (US$3 million equivalent) per
annum during the project implementation period unless a financing plan has
been approved by the Bank (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
50.       As a Government-owned entity, GUATEL's statute requires it to pay
each year to the Government 45 percent of its adjusted annual net income.
Considering the substantial investment program GUATEL had to undertake, the
Government agreed to let GUATEL accrue the corresponding amounts as a
long-term debt starting in 1976, and to retain them as equity contri-
butions during 1979-83. Following negotiations, the Government abrogated
this agreement effective retroactively to 1982. GUATEL has resumed full
payment to the Government of 45 percent of its net income and has paid Q
2.0 million of the total Q 11.4 million in accrued debt relating to the
period 1976-78 to the Government. This ensures an appropriate balance
between the financial needs of the Government and GUATEL.
51.       Tariffs.  GUATEL's tariff structure needs to be reviewed: the
monthly service charge is low and includes a free allowance of 400 local
call pulses; call units are charged to residences at a lower rate than to
business and government subscribers; and numerous miscellaneous charges
probably generate more administrative costs than revenues. Provision has
been made under the proposed project to finance technical assistance to
help GUATEL carry out a tariff study under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank. During negotiations, GUATEL agreed to complete a tariff study by
June 30, 1984 and furnish to the Bank a satisfactory plan of action to
implement the study's recommendations by September 30, 1984 (Section 3.05
(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Return on Investment
52.       Benefits.  Telecommunications services benefit all sectors of
Guatemala's economy. Compared with alternative means of communication,
telecommunications are often more efficient in terms of capital and energy
consumption and user time. With adequate telecommunications facilities,
the level and variety of productive communication can be increased
considerably, and activities which would otherwise not be feasible can be
realized.
53.       Telecommunications can be expected to play a significant role in
Guatemala especially at this time when a concerted effort is made to
diversify the economy and improve social services. The project aims
specifically at (a) reducing the cost of locating production outside the
capital city area, thereby helping decentralize economic activity towards
the new areas being opened up, particularly the Franja Transversal and El
Peten; (b) improving the working of the market mechanism by extending
access to information as needed to foster competition and develop
production, services and regional trade; (c) increasing the efficiency of
transportation through coordination of vehicle use and some substitution of
travel, resulting in energy savings; (d) facilitating the extension of
health, education, government administration, production and other services
to low income rural areas; and (e) mobilizing domestic savings by
transferring part of the net income from telecommunications operations to
the Government (paragraph 50).



- 19 -
54.       The planned increase of line installation rates under the project
will permit an increase in the proportion of the demand met by services
from about 35 percent in 1983 to about 50 percent in 1987 for the country
as a whole. This will still leave an unmet demand of about 207,000 lines
at the end of the program. In the areas outside the capital city, about 69
percent of forecast demand for telephone connections will be met in 1987
compared with 29 percent in 1982. This will involve expansion of exchange
capacity in Quetzaltenango, Guatemala's second largest city, Flores, the
main town in the Peten region, and Puerto San Jose, where a major sea port
is being developed. Telephone service would be extended to most of the 304
seats of municipal government, about 60 other places, and more than 500
agricultural cooperatives. With this, the proportion of people outside
Guatemala City with access to telephone service will roughly double.
55.       The configuration of GUATEL's existing network limits the number
of viable alternative solutions that could be considered to achieve the
program targets. The timing and scope of the work items proposed in the
program, of which this project is an integral part, are based on
engineering studies designed to introduce, where appropriate, electronic
digital switching techniques at the least cost. Given existing
telecommunications technology, the program, as a whole, represents the
least cost solution to provide the quantities and types of equipment which
would meet the targets set out in GUATEL's four-year development plan.
56.       Telephone services are being expanded significantly into what the
Government considers to be high priority rural and provincial areas (see
above, paragraph 54). This will result in a more equitable distribution of
the benefits of telephone service in Guatemala, including a possible
financial cross-subsidy from urban subscribers to rural public call offices
or connections which in the short run may not generate sufficient revenues
to cover costs. In the capital, there would be an increased proportion of
subscribers living in dwellings which are typical of relatively low income
residences and a correspondingly reduced proportion of high income homes,
with no change in the middle income range.
57.       Return on Investment.  The internal financial rate of return on
the 1984-1987 investment program, defined as the discount rate which
equalizes the present value of the cost and revenue streams (at 1983 price
levels), is 20 percent. A sensitivity analysis on the internal financial
rate of return indicates that a 10 percent increase in capital expenditures
and operating expenses and a 10 percent decrease in operating revenues
would result in a rate of return of about 13 percent. The estimated
minimum economic rate of return of the program is 35 percent, assuming that
new subscribers added over the period would be willing to pay the same
tariffs in real terms as existing subscribers. This estimate understates
total program benefits, since it does not fully include the consumer
surplus which callers or subscribers receive, and does not fully account
for all external benefits associated with transport substitution, business
opportunity, administrative efficiency, etc.



- 20 -
Risk
58.       There are no unusual risks associated with the program.  A
possible risk may arise out of delayed physical implementation due to
unforeseen circumstances such as delays in the execution of the civil
works, receipt of material or equipment, installation of equipment and
plant, and execution of the connection program. Moreover, in telecommuni-
cations projects, which comprise a number of independent works, a delay in
the implementation of a few works does not generally prevent the use of
other newly-created assets. When such delays do occur, costs and revenues
tend to be deferred by roughly the same degree, so that the overall impact
on the return on investment is usually not significant. The previous
project was implemented approximately according to schedule with the
exception of the switching equipment which was delayed due to technical
problems beyond GUATEL's control. To reduce the risk that supplier-related
problems may affect project implementation, bid specifications included a
requirement that equipment offered must be field-proven.
Environment and Health Aspects
59.       No adverse environmental or health effects are expected as a
result of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Empresa
Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL), the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Guatemala and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committees provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The most important features and special conditions of the
draft Loan Agreement and the draft Guarantee Agreement have been included
in Part IV and are summarized in Section III of Annex III of this report.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       T recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 8, 1984



- 21-                                ANNEXI
Page 1 of 6
T A B L E 3A
GUATEMALA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUATEMALA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) I.
HOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
l/b  RECENT             MIDDLE INCOKE             MIDDLE INCGIE
196O-/-b     1970-  ESTDMATE-        LAT. AMERICA & CARIB             EUROPE
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KN)
TOTAL                                 108.9        108.9        108.9
AGRICULTURAL                           24.8         24.8         27.0
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     260.0        430.0       1140.0               2088.2                    2453.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        180.0        234.0        308.0              1407.6                     1580.8
POPULATION AN) VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    3966.0         5353.0       7477.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)          33.0         35.7         39.4                 65.9                      47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 12.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   25.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          36.4         49.2         66.7                35.6                       82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              159.9        215.7        268.6                93.2                      157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                            46.2         45.7         43.0                40.1                       31.9
15-64 YRS                            51.1         51.6         53.9                55.8                       60.9
65 AND ABOVE                          2.7          2.7          3.0                 4.1                        7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (7)
TOTAL                                 2.9          3.0          3.0                 2.3                         1.6
URBAN                                 3.7          3.8          3.9                 3.7                        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           48.3         44.1         39.1                31.5                       25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           18.5         13.9         10.3                 8.1                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4          3.1          2.6                 2.0                        1.7
.FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              . .        21.2         19.8
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          7.0         18.0/c
YOOD AND NUTITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          93.0        101.0        116.0               113.0                      108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0         94.0         93.0               111.3                      129.6
PROTFINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             60.0         57.0         55.0                67.9                       92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           21.0         20.0         19.0/d              34.1                       34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            10.4          9.2          5.2                  5.3                      10.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          47.2         52.9         58.8                64.6                       67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          91.9         87.1         65.9                62.6                       71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..         38.0         40.0/e              64.8
URBAN                                  ..         88.0         87.07?              77.8
RURAL                                  ..         12.0         14.07;              44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(x OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         25.0/e              54.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..         40.07?              69.8
RURAL                                  *.         11.0         17.0/e              29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             4420.0/f    3730.0        8600.0              1776.0                     1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              9040.0/f    1260.0        1620.0              1012.2                      762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               380.0        470.0        520.0/g             477.0                      334.0
URBAN                               190.0/f      210.0           ..               667.5                      216.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..              1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..        19.6           ..                27.2                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2/i        5.0/          .
URBAN                                 5.27i        4.97..
RURAL                                 5.371        5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOR
TOTAL                                 2.6/i        2.2/          .
URBAN                                 1. 97i       1.67          ..
RURAL                                 3.17T        2.77          .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                22.0/i       28. 5/1        ..                   .
URBAN                                56.07i       67.8..
RURAL                                 4. 0/1i      5.4           ....
-- - - --  - - - -- - -  -- - - - -- -  - -- - - - _---___ __---_--__------__ __-___--_--__-___ _--___-__-_--__--_-_ _-__-__-___ __ __ __ _-__ _--___ __ _--____ -__ _ -_ -



-22 -                                 ANEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A B L E 3A
GUATEMALA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUATEMALA                             REPERENCE  ROUKS (WIGIED ASRAZS) /f
MOST                      (MDST RECENT 157TDIAT) /b
0/b    19,70/-b  RECENT        LA MIDDLE INCOME            MDDLE 110c0
1960        1970- ESTIMAT/b    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB                EtOPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    45.0        57.0         69.0              105.0                    102.2
MALE                    50.0        62.0         74.0              106.3                    107.2
FEMALE                  39.0        51.0        63.0               103.6                     97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    7.0         8.0         16.0               40.0                     56.5
MALE                     8.0         9.0        17.0                38.6                     63.4
FEMALE                   6.0         8.0        15.0                41.2                     48.9
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)          18.6        15.0         19.0               34.0                     22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.0        36.0         34.0               30.7                     24.7
SECONDARY                           8.0        14.0        20.0                16.7                     22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)              31.5       4'6.1           .                79.5                      69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           6.6         8.0         13.2/c             45.6                     52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         53.0        41.1         39.8              228.2                    165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             8.1        13.5         24.1              108.3                    124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             21.5        26.7         12.9               64.1                     96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       2.3/f       2.0/k        1.4                2.9                      2.9
L.ABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          1237.0      1625.0      2291.0                  .                      3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   12.6        12.9        14.2                24.8                     34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.7        61.0         55.0               31.3                     40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.4        17.3        20.5                23.9                     23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.2        30.4         30.6               31.3                     42.0
MALE                               53.9        52.2         51.9               49.8                     55.2
FEMALE                              7.9         7.9         8.8                14.8                     29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.6         1.6          1.5                1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        35.0/1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        60.07 1
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         5.071         .
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       13.071i
POVIRTf TAflT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..        230.0/d            289.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       160.071             184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        231.0/d            519.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       141.07d             372.1                    409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMF LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                ..          ..        21.0/d
RURAL                                ..          ..        25.07.                        
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries amotg the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1978; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1962; /g 1975; /h 1958; /I 1964; L2 1973; /k 1968; /t Partial survey of urban areas only.
May 1983



- 23 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OP SOCiAL INDICATORS
Note:  Alihoah the data are draen fin  sources generally judged the anti authoritative and reliable, It should also he noted that they may noat be  tenattai
reprhebecause of the lack of stdardieed definition   and c-o-pta oted by different.. cotri- in rollectlng  the data.  The data are, nonetheless* useful ne
dee..ibe oedera of nagoitude, irdiloae trends, and oh-tr-teiee ce-tec  s.lo  difiereore  heb ac--              unin
Thereetrcegropsare11  se sm   cu`y group of the tnbjre cou..tiry and (2) a country groput   oohthg  raoueicc   hnterttyaepu  h
sejccuty(scpfo"IgItueOI  oonr    ru   here "Mtddle Ioc..e event Afric  cud Middle Dunn' Is chote  he c noofI-teoga Iecn -ana
affinities11).  In the  eeer  gop duta the, IneraeaIur  poplation anighted aritittic  ne..n.  fur each iudiletor and ston  ov1y oha  najunny of the   -stten-  .Is
gophtdatal for Ithat indlato-   Since the c-rerag  of cunria   og the lodlcatoes depends on the                 1 avaiahillyof'  dat    d La out ..off.r,oan       esth
ear _se       rlaiog  avnue   o -o  indi-aar to another   Thos  anorug Itar  oily usful in comparIng the talon ofoehdla--  at a time a_ng the oatry and
gEAa (thuasand aq.km.l                                                                                ouatnpe   hsca     opulto                 iie   y  uhro   rrirg
Teta1 - Tota1 ...rIace urea comprising laud uraao nlod    etr;  91                                     lytln  qa   in   r                ia - Ila  sho   t aunesiy isne.
197D aud 19f0 data.ilId-.;Praa19tpe6Nrin,Der _n pplat insdidded by unbe  ltf inatog
agiutrl- Entina-  ofagiutrloaued tetporarily on pernatentIly                                  taead m le grdoate noen, a                  I     =.bIsattre*proItlsrsca
forcrps, IPastures, sarkt and littheogees  rs  i  fallun; 1960,                                 turing a...tris
1970 cod 180 dat.                                                                                Iouaio   e  H-spltul Od - "ttIubn  an url-Pepa'tin Ita.I,
urhan, andrrl  dIndd  iyt the   repctv   nmeof homptee1 bsds
GIP pER CAPdlTA (li) - DS  per -spita entinant  a   uco are    rcs                                     analbloh   in public avd privat  geneecl und Ipeotlised haspita1 ned
o_inlase  bysaecovetonmthod an Wolid nant atat. 11909-t1 hasia);                                     rehuiliut IIvone.--ptlaeetelamuspsemtnetly staffed
196i, i970, and 19891 data.                                                                          by at  _ut one ph yaivian.  ttbihnts tiigpninoipa1I,ly  tndtai
cure are not included.tru  i_p_l,  eee, ialade heslt  ted
ENERGY OgNSUgpyiit PEt CAyITA - Aevua  apparent co--ptlot on c_arvlmdical center  tu peemnet Ylysudid by a physirtas (btnt by a mmdtol1
and geoterme Ilevnrtit Iylo ilorasIf coleq aln   pe-cpinu;                                           provide a       itun   rnge  nmuial nariiie.   Poe- taittt -             P.r-me
1960, 1970, avd 1990 da-o                                                                             nban htptin,tlods aOv. Priv-ipa/ge...ral hespitala, end   -1ra
hosptul, mni  r rralhospitals and medical and maternityrnes
POPULATION ADM7 VITAL STATISTICS                                                                      Sp.vul         aPital  ore i-ouded auly under totel.
Todtal Pupulation, Mid-Yea  (th-uads) - dA of Joly 1; 1960, 1970, ovd i981                         Adelissan  per H-iotel Bed - Total nuber of udmissios ia e  distherge
daa                                                                                                fiehsituln  divIded by the cumerb nfbde.
differen  degnrln  ofohu          yresm yff-re   oeparabitivy of deta                         HOUSING
amoog countries; 1960, 1970, and 1981 data.kerg  tine ovushifH-,d Ip;Ersans pe -humhaid.) -ttl  ura .nd e-e1
eupulatian yrujco stone                                           - A buoutbold nonsinta of a group en individuals sha mbaer liniug qaartmes~~~~~~~~~
total papulatita by Iae  ndc  sad Itheir  atl            nod fertility                           the  oueholdfostitca prpe.
I Ilt.  Proj-tod- pararoet..  for sor1taIity_rutec  -oprt  o~fthree                            toraeuber of proaprrom-totu, arbe, sad rsea  tr.ae.a.                           e
lernasming life  enp-nta-y at  "hiehineatu   eith  v tyt per                                ofPe-s-- per roveI itelluban, and rurti -r-pied naseest-Isl
naPi." n'  n  lnl  nut1          f imiin   lf  spetanty anbilining at 77.5                      dtlig,rseti-ely.  isligset lde  a-rna                            --t tarae  and
ymars.  The paeaueners Inn fetityrealobnthe levelsI                                      un1cupled psorn.t
autgdecline in fertility u-avdingt Ivicom  level and'past fsmJly                          aton..s to  lerctc(percet cI deellinat)-toa.rbsmerna-
Pltunlng  Perfontav-c     -h Duc -cotr  Is shenunigued one of these ninefnenoa  dliogs  iti electricty tinin   qatesaspesttg
canbiastons of sartaliy adfenliny nende far prajeotttt puross                             oftoa,ubnatdralnelngesptnly
statiu..ury papututin- IoastuIaasry  poylati-n thans IsIu  gr-th
nnetebirth  ate In equal tno the deathrae   an  asosh  ageUChAT Iv
stutrl_     nlsanto.Tin isahieved only after fertility   attadjusted Eny1ninnt tattoo
decline  n  the relu _nntlee  vi an1 t-e  neyraduoti   rat, thin                                 Prlisec actua  - tuna1, n-l  and fenle - Crass tnta1, male and female
han  g--ortivo of n       rplat _.Itsel  cuatly.  The stetiu...ry                                enoleto  all aget at the yrinar  lerea   pecetaesa   rmpeniee
po pulation sits as- un d on the basin an th  proJactd  Ibrce-yiaysho-aeppltot   omlyi_tlud- rhilde  aged :.-II
intio  of she population in she Yaar DODD, end tie rate of decline v                               year  hut adjoaned for differen  lnths of prmytdeta;fur
patata -sn  till beeea-hed.                                                                Setondarysa-     -toal  saeadfsae-Cmed Ima  btn; mevnmdary
Faaatu   leniydkeducationl.)                                                                              ... rqires at leas.t Four- Year  aappennd primaytaeno"e
Per en. he. -Midyr population per nqaehlstr111hcae)u                                                 pev-ideI g...r.i, nvutionl, erneach-rtaigierts   fee
totlara Ih0, 1970, and 1900 dots.                                                                  PpuIl nuaalyor1  t  17 pears of age;tarpndneetesse
ern.h.-agicltuallad -Computd ashun  for agrcltura-l land                                        groenully en.c1uded.
ony -90, 1970 and 1980 data.                                                                _octionl_    rule       pret .o-noadsry)-Otainlnsitsu
PouainAa            'uPue   (percet)- Chldren 70-16 yesrt), tanning-ago  (iS-                 include tecnIcal, industrial  orvhe   rorm   s                peran  inepend-
hiFeats), aud retired  lb  yese  and ae)a  paretan   o id-Y.a                                    entlyanu  departn...tn  ofscndr  lsi-ttnain.
poyulautoo; 191,19170, and 1981I dunn.                                                           Pui-ece   ai      neup   n   eodr                    aa  stadeses etnIled in
Pouatninth Rt  prnn)-ttal - lAn.-l groeth r-te  of ntal. nid-                                  riaendaudryeesdIide  hy number  ef tanhers issh tsel-
yea  pautisnanfur 19..-ho, I9..-7.. and..970-fl.                                                   ruopandiug levelt.
ptul   ,-nOreh lane (act)- urban - lAnual gro-h r--n  an urta                                PAdt li mmorat-        pecnt l M   Literat  adult  (tbie  tt emd and -t.m) a
papansivus. for 1950-60, 1960-70, atd 1970-8i.                                                     a percntage of tata   dult papuIaniao aged 15 Years andavr
Crude Otth nte (en  hounand) - hatua  live birthn per thuasand an nid-
yea  papalation; 196O,190,an l19  data.                                                        2isoerTION
Crude  eath ste (vr thouand) -usnus  detis pen thousand ofad-erPassege  Cltr  (perIbso  pulation) - Pes...nger car  vprise matte
pupulatian; l196i, 1970  cnd 1991 dana.                                                            cans ae.gles Ihn eight Peras  ...dnsblnes*hses   a
insiRrptdantivn R.I.e-Anerage numbero,          aghesaano              erIn                       stmr   nils
he  ovnemalI  reprduntine  perlid if she eupeeten-e  prenen  ag-pcfctdiv iRceiner  (per ibtusan2d  vrltv)-All typse tfrelertaedt
fertility  eaten; ususlly fiat-year aenra~~-gen r-ding It   0, d"b 1960,g 1970   n       bra-d-otsntnoge..reltphl   e   hiteId of pnnettun;  -ua1de  am
19f1.                                                                    ~~~~~~~~license d receivesn  r      .ueenad in yemet.te  -nitais   frdio
Faatlr Past-Apceptoos  atus f1thvusands) - Annual rusheraf acce.ptor                                 ttuaa  in eIffet  deta for r--t  years may ntbe  -psrable  st-n                  r
of hirtn,-nvtrt  devn                P.unde   aupIe   of ottut..l fomilyP plntg                    cu-tries ahulished lv tg
praou.TgR"""n" leer ikhasan   PePa1laito> - TV re-i-er  fh  bruadest ts
Pa.,,Y Planning-sr   trrnPtmrre   u ) -  Prcntg  of s..rrled                                         gener al  ub    per.   nao    eusin   nlae   oiesdT   een
eae  a   hild-hes.rIng ae(15-It4  an)ah   u  bsh-nnco  deie                                  inc-n-i-a and iv per  on  rgnu  to   fT esasI.T'efee
all... iarldasnn  innaneage grucy.                                                                       I"I'anr lrclanIonire-hn..s.vd Papulanlnn)-hautb   average~
FOODcal  fTITOtc  yoa  c  of"duil a genrl-Inestospe'' defined asapeiI ia
Indet of Puod ProductIon Per cap1ita196-1=0               nOc- yrPar capita                          pucrondvtd  -r-erlp cc  e-adlg genera  uat--   In In iscde...d
anulrdoc_ln of all fAudoealls   Prdcto    uclde  ted and                                      toib dIly  if in appears at tent Four tineesseek.
fend  nd  Is-an-ede- Year baste.   Oontditi-e            t  petnary gado(eg                      Ci..en   n_ duAt_attndanc  Per Glt prDa-Dteon the number IF
ugarnanetustead      sugar)  h lot se   dible and vuntal  nutrients  og                    ticets saId durIng  the yenr, Icuig   dinastodieiton                           n
cuffs naud  tea ure  on loded).  aggregat  podactu  ofec ontyIbaile anise,
based on  -niv...l averge produe  pieeig  it; 1961~-65,~1970, av  lFil
data.                                                                                          LA0R F0RCE
Per capita supyoCauin  y  cn   frnuemca       upated frau                                          Tona  taint Prce (tnhusnds) - ica--i-lly ace to  Pers..-, ist- ingrmd
enrg   quvlen   tntfn   upisaalhei   onr  percapns per                                        arce  ted.. trplaygd hut  -unlding                 -nsnna.  tdet,  et,enrn
day.  kn-ilahln  -upplin... coprise domsi  prodntlan  isuts  et                                    Poplto   ofalaes           -ffntin   in-r-        s   tmr e   r   o
buona   udran-  In coach.  tN  sppn    -nvdeaisal feed, teeds,                             n-earale; 19h0, 1971 and 198  data.
quttIn usditnua  pnatg. adlonaIt diarbnas                                                           eae(percnt) - Peal  lahor force us    --rtga If tote1 leb-r fot.
.e.rmenseesti-te  by FO bae  an. d    phynivlagintl ..eeds foieh va lAgei-tultr  ( peecet)- arfoc  it fursing, nare.stey, tanin  an
aottityaa   heulthntatsderitnviru-eeta1 tetpeeatar,   bdytegh                                        nishini as percentge of_ttllbyfm;1960,I1970 andI198  data.
age and n.. distlhbatin atppayltion, end al1u-ing 10 Fera=  for nnte                               Industry (cement).  Laboe turns in nining, nntrn           -e,mnfmtttlu 
a_t inusehald lenel; 19,61-65, 1970..  end 1980 da.                                                   an    lcrct,tnrnd          .d gta  pecnaea  nu-a  labor ftr; 1960,
Pe .nntspely an Prtn    I(g aper day) - Prist  conen  ofper -apita                               1970 aod 1981 dana.
net supply vI tnt  pe  dey.  Met spply offod In def Ind as above.                                Potlnt av lane. R    rercnnl t-tonl, stir, and ieale-Psrtiipatioue
Reqtrseos  tr  llovenresI sthihd bY OtDA prode furnie                                         acIvi.t1y rates art nop.cted at total, sale, and femal  labor f......
allatoe  o  h  gam.o.tta  yruti6  pn dy ud DO grass of onical snd                                  peroentegI of total,sal  and fe...le pap.tlaitn of  1  eges erspetinmly;
plepe_l,  nf ncinhIDgrass should in unisol pr-in.   .et                                         1960, 1970, and 1911 data,  Thes  are based In ILO's patitiptian rates
.ttadtrdnI are -ove  than thasa af 75 grte- of  .total peotoins   DO gras                          -fl-ctng ag-se  -tut-n  an the  op             it,ad lnng time teend.A
at aneal poteinas anaverae fvethe%a-ld, pnvpued hy FMt in the                                    I- ettm enar  from n_i_va  .v..e. -  t.     d         5.    5I  
ThrSal  Pn   uoy   11-65,9 l70 and 1990 dta,                                           ftvucDuednp iat   - vutio an populin.                  ne Sed6   n   ert
Pee capita penin sP'ly tro  uminal and~I yos-Pr'telo  supply of food                                 the tatu1 lahur Ilrne.
d-rird frum ansat  cod yua_  In gra- Per dY;  961-.... .... and 1977
Child uas1-4) leanth gate (pertosn)-asuldah  ththusndinF etage an Private lo-v  (btnn In cah and hind) - ie-in-d by richest 
ag 4gtv   -I  nr, to childrenIn-itaegay   o   ut detlvying                                  per_rt, rihstD  percet, pureat 20 pete...t, end ponrest 40 peroet If
cutisdata derived fras Llf  taie;196, 1970co191da.                                          househa1ds.
HEALOTH                                                                                            POVcRTY TARGET GOcUrS
at hieth; 1960, 1970 nod 1981 data,                                                                should he iterpen-td tinth c-nuid-cb ituIn
lfnfat fNen Iny lat -     per ntvusad) -   -1ua  deaths af inlan-vode  one. faiuted  Absulute ron..ety l-nn- taVel (05pee  ipt.) - ubsn ted rana1 -
yea  vi age Per thc...nd IIe births; 1960, 197D and 19Bf a data.1 Piton   pvetY innt  leve  It Lhat Intme                                              Intlbet    hiifh s minimal
Aces  F.Of   tane  (cencen  of  -tpultitn     ttlohn  udcral -                                  ortnnl    dequat  diet plu  essent..Ial nun-tu.          eqd   eae Is i  not
Nuaher of pevylt(taral, urban, ad  rua)tb   esnble~T ants on sfe                          affnrdsb
mtrsply(icue  terted tuf-ac  -sesn   nran    u                                             slac   eaieFnr    noetvl(S    e   ns - drhs  and ral.l -
ancatantatrdutte  suhonta  from  protec~~ted bneholes, spins,ad                              Rueal1r-nnlv  punenty inom   Inl-  Is one-third an aneeg  Pee e-pis
sauferytels) a  peceoageeof  lner repecrepapuatVoa.         In avpean..    incs  othcunr.    Tehut,                               I  Iee  in derivd feua the rars
arbaaaresa.pahlic  foannuin at standpat loca.ted non suecht~  I00 cetrs                            ee  alth adj-t-no   for high. en-ns  If lining It arbas   -a..
frT ahouse nay         ... cvldnr. Ie  eJug tiltl In tea....ble ates  ofthat                     tniytdFrualn OrI- giAlute-   tvrY Ittll                 eel(soat      se
hus.   luaa    rastacai  aces  ...uld imply that the hausn.-fe orad rurl1  Percet nf population  (-riat and rrl   b   r   aal
arsber  of the houshold dt alt bane to spend a die...peapari.tua     Part of                       p
nb _da fO fetchin  the fesaly'. sete  -ad-
_`es  t   nc Dn isptsal I escason If P,poplatian)~ - totst,rbso,an
nay include nie ra1tltian  and dlnpus.. IIitl nr ulfcu   test_ et ,uf                                                                    -ont  and Racial  ent. mysain
hIaeteaad  tanne tunrby nnter-bvrnn systns or the us  If Pit                                                              inonl        .1aysis mud Pu)Jctiuns Dplpaeett
PrtIeudtiilar installaIon.                                                                                                                             14ey 1983



- 24 -
AiEr I
poiul.atic: 7.5 mIllon (mid-1982)                                                                                                                                                Page 4 of 6
GDP Per Cata (1981) US$10980
hwt
Itllion tES$                                    Sime of GDP At Mwkhet Prices (Z)                                    Aerage Aml. lIresse (e)
Inicam:                               (at currnt                                           (at are-t pdrco)a/                                                   (constarm  prics)
prices)
1982                1970              1975             1980             1981             1982            1970-75          1975-80           1981-86
NXtioa AlcaMB
Cs liii0stlr Pmduct                      8846                10D.0            100.0            100.0            100.0            100.0               5.6              5.7              0.3
AgricUlture                            2247                27.6              28.2             25.4             25.3b/           25.7b/             6.2              3.5               1.1
Industry                               1859                18.7              18.5             21.5             21.417/          20.7A/             5.7              9.0             -2.3
Servison                              4740                  53.6            53.3              53.1             53.3W1           53.6W1             4.9              5.6              0.9
Cormuptice                               7826                 86.5             85.7             87.0             89.2             87.9               4.5              6.0             -1.5
koe  Itwonlimt                           1214                 12.8             16.1             15.9             17.4             15.7               5.5              5.3               1.4
Exporte, (247                            1318                 19.1             21.7             21.8             16.8             14.6               8.9              4.4              0.5
I4orts, (WSF                            1634                 18.4             23.5             24.8              23.4             18.2               4.3              5.1             -5.0
Gose SNtional Savings                     98                  12.4             14.4             13.6              9.8             10.8               6.8              4.8              11.4
1978               1979             1980             1981             1982
Prices
DP lbPRarzr                               100.0              108.6            119.5            130.2            138.5
RachEge Rate                                1.0                1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0
Export price index                        10D.0              103.0            115.8            114.1            114.2
1iort price iler                         100.0              116.6            140.2             150.7            159.7
Terms of trade irdex                      100.0               88.3             82.6             75.7             71.5
Compsition of ecdihae Trade (X)                       ker9ge khial Isrese (Z)
(at current prices)                                (corstant prices)
1970             1975             1980             1985            1972-75          1975-80         1981-86
'por:s                                     100.0            102.0             100.0            100.0               7.3              6.2            -4.3
Priiy                                     63.9             68.8              67.3             65.1               8.7              2.0            -6.1
in,fertures                               36.1             31.2              32.7             34.9               4.5             13.0             0.1
Isprcs                                     100.0            100.0             102.0            100.0               3.6              2.5            -4.3
Fcoi                                       8.5              8.5               6.9              8.2             -11.4             12.3             2.2
Petroleus                                  5.1              14.0             21.2             17.5             -10.6             12.9            -5.8
lehimry                                    27.4             28.5             23.7             14.3              15.6              7.1           -13.0
Others                                    59.0             49.0             48.2             60.0                6.5            -3.0             -2.4
As Z of MP
1970             1975             1980              1981              1982
Pubic Fiumece
Current effYs~                                               11.8             12.5             14.5             13.9              13.1
Cuxtrent IpEaditure                                         10.7             10.2             12.9             12.9              12.4
at-rplus (I ) or deficit (-)                                  1.1             2.3               1.6              1.0               0.7
Capita Expenditure                                            3.1              3.5              7.4              8.6               6.5
PbreAgn Finasrg                                              1.4              0.8              2.0              2.0               1.7
Actual                 Projected
1970-75         1975-0            1981-86
Other Indicmrs
GP C 1wth Rate (Z)                                            5.6              6.0              0.1
CP Fer Capita Goth Rate ()                                    2.6              2.7            -2.7
Electricaity consumtion growth rate (Z
ICC                                                          3.0              3.4              14.4c/
leginal esaing  Pate                                         0.11             0.11              0.11
Impoat KLeticity                                             0.7              0.8            -18.6
Yt At vwiast primce; c apeon    are exprossed at factor cost asd may ct aid due to the elusaion of cet iTdirect taoes and sobfidion.
bMwime mims at ccent pricos.
c/ ICI. va.ue is for 1982-86, sine the aontot price valUe of GDP is almost the agm  in 1981 ard 1986.



- 25 -
AMX I
Page 5 of 6
PopuLation: 7.5 ndllion (mid-1982)   GLAMIA: BAIAIE OF PAY!NIS, EXEIL CAPrL, AND MBT
tNP Per Capita (1981) US$1,140 tMLllions of US$ at Current Prices)
Actual                         Estimated    Proj ected
1978          1980         1981         1982          1983         1984
Balance of Paynts
Exports of Goods and NFS                 1282.1        1721.5        1454.2       1317.9       1230.3       1362.1
Goods F.O.B.                           1092.4         1519.8       1299.1       1199.6       1142.3        1266.7
lbn-Factor ServiCes                     189.7         201.7         155.1        118.3         88.0         95.4
imports of Goods and N'S                 1647.9        1951.9       2024.4        1621.8       1349.5       1490.6
Goods C.I.F.                           1390.6         1598.2       1673.6       1387.7       1174.5        1291.7
lbn-Factor Srvices                      257.3         353.7         350.9        234.1        175.0        198.9
Net BcpDrts of Goods axl NFS             -365.8        -230.4        -570.2      -320.9        -119.2       -128.5
Net Factor Irxcme                         -12.0         -55.8        -85.4       -117.0        -147.5       -168.9
Net Transfers                             115.6         109.8         90.9          64.8         42.7         46.3
Current Account Baance                   -262.2        -176.4       -564.7        -373.1       -224.0       -251.1
Direct Rreign Investnent (Net)            119.6         110.7         127.1         86.6         60.0         60.0
MLT loans (Net)                            86.3          122.2        260.9        310.0        170.0        232.0
Disbursements                              96.7         137.4         283.4        343.6        227.9        331.8
Anrtization                               -10.4         -15.2        -22.5        -33.6         -57.8        -99.7
Other Capital                             131.9        -425.5       -163.9         -28.0         21.9        -16.0
Qiange In Net Reserves                    -75.6         369.0         340.6         51.5        -27.9        -24.9
(- = increase)
International Reserves, Net               733.1         364.1         23.5        -28.0           0           24.9
Reserves as Mbnths of Imports               5.3           2.2          0.1         -0.2           0            0.2
Exterpal Capital & Debts
Official grants                             -             -            -            -
(koss disburswnts                          96.7         137.4        283.4         343.6
oncessional loans                        42.9          58.7          48.2         40.6
DYC                                     2.8           5.7           7.4         14.2
PEKC                                    -            17.4          -             -
m.                                      _              _            _            _
Other                                  40.1          35.6         40.8          26.4
Nbr-Concessional loans                   53.8          78.7         235.2        303.0
Officia Fcport CreUts                  19.2          24.6         120.2        177.8
IBRD                                   17.8          34.9         31.5          17.2
Others Miltilateral                    15.7           6.4         29.5          65.0
Private                                 1.1           12.8         54.0         43.0
External Debt
Debt O.itstarding and Disbirse            304.0         549.0         8D9.5       1119.4
CEficial                               297.4         533.9         742.2       1009.1
Private                                  6.6          15.1          67.3        110.3
Utdisbursed Debt                          440.6         501.4        574.1         391.0
Debt Service
Total Service Paynents                     26.1          44.8          60.3         87.9
Interest                                   15.7          29.6         37.8          54.3
Payments as % of Exports QIFS             N 2.0           2.6          4.1           6.8
Averae Interest Rate of New loans (Z)       5.8           7.9           8.5          6.4
Averae Mturity of New loans (Years)        23.6           14.5         18.6         13.5



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
OFFICIAL LENDING BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1973-82
(In Millions of Constant FY83 US Dollars a/)
IBRD      IDB       CABEI      AID       TOTAL
Transport                     20.0       52.7      36.9                 109.6
Power                        169.4      234.5       91.6      10.5      506.0
Education                     49.8       56.7        1.5      21.5      129.5
Health                         -        203.3        -         5.9      209.2
Housing                       29.7       29.8       50.9      11.9      122.3
Agriculture                    -         79.5        8.3      40.6      128.4
Manufacturing                            28.0        9.3       7.4       44.7
Water and Sewerage             -          -          7.8       -          7.8
Telecommunications            41.1                  9.8                  50.9
Others                         _          -        44.3       10.0       54.3
TOTAL                    310.0      684.5     260.4      107.8   1,362.7
a/  IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
SOURCES: World Bank Statement of loans.
USAID:  Status of Loan Agreements.
IEB: Status of Approved loans.
CABEI Anuario Estadistico 1961/62-1979/80.
Ministry of Finance, Guatemala.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 1/ (Net of cancellations)
As of September 30, 1983.
Loan or
Credit    Year    Borrower               Purpose             Bank    Undisbursed
No.                                                         (US$ millions)
Eight loans fully disbursed.                                 141.5
1104     1975   GUATEL            Telecommunications            26.0      2.5
1212     1976   Government        Education                     14.5      3.3
1314     1976   Government        Earthquake Reconstruction,   4.2        0.3
Education and Port
1605     1978   INDE              Power                         72.0      4.6
1846     1980   Government        Highways                      17.0    15.4
23282/   1983   Government        Basic Education               18.5    18.5
Total                                                 293.7
of which has been repaid                             57.2
Total now outstanding                                 236.5
Amount sold                    5.8
of which has been repaid    5.8                        -       -
Total now held by Bank                                236.5
Total undisbursed                                              44.6
1/ Including exchange adjustments.
2/ Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1983.)
Year            Obligor                Type of Business   Loan   Equity   Total
(US$ millions)
1'359   Industria Harinera               Flour mill            0.20      -      0.20
Guatemalteca, S.A.
1974   Exploraciones y Explotaciones   Mining and Pro-    15.00          -     15.00
Mineras Izabal, S.A.              cessing of Nickel
1977   Cementos Progreso, S.A.           Cement                3.00      -      3.00
Total gross commitments                           18.20      -      18.20
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            14.15      -     14.15
Total now held by IFC                              4.05      -      4.05
Total undisbursed



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project : 15 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project : GUATEL
(c)  First Presentation to Bank    : June 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  January 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations    : October 1982
(f)  Estimated Loan Effectiveness       June 30 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   GUATEL will:
(a) retain experts to assist in institutional development, with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and selected in accordance
with Bank guidelines (paragraph 46);
(b) complete a tariff study by June 30, 1984 and furnish to the Bank
a satisfactory plan of action to implement the study's
recommendations by September 30, 1984 (paragraph 51);
(c) continue to maintain an accrual accounting system (paragraph 48);
(d) achieve a rate of return on the current value of average net
fixed assets in operation of 12 percent in 1984 and 13 percent in
1985 and thereafter (paragraph 49); and
(f) not incur any additional capital expenditures in excess of Q3
million per annum during the project completion period unless a
financing plan has been approved by the Bank (paragraph 49).



- 30 -
ANTEX III
Page 2 of 2
B.   The Government of Guatemala will promptly make available to GUATEL any
funds necessary for project completion (paragraph 40).
C. Any amendment of Section 23 of Decree Law No. 14-71 of April 13, 1971
which provides for the transfer of revenues of GUATEL to the Government
was added as an additional event of default (Section 7.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).



44)0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JR IRR t22R
r ;  '   , --    /l: .. .  Y -  .             ,.0                                   '                                    ,                1v      ,_ rE i r   li n
GUATEMALA
_cf/A                                        THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT f;
Local Exchanges and Long Distance Network
'S, wgrtr&y 5 -   '''   p  EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (Gutel)                                      2
______________                                  I                                                                   I---- ----  i - -                 ,,
M    E  X  I  C                                                                                       I                                |
MEXICO              I                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~P   LP
C.          ~                         8                                   I,,,u-, I  B  E  L  I Z  E
TELECOMMUNICATIONS  FACIIUTIES            %.//ALtAEGO
INUNDER                          cg3wS 024 -2. *~' 2
PROPOSES  INSTALLATION    EXRTING                                                       PLc/C 2                   i ie
*                *    Loccl relephoeeoe *xhn m~ >,                                   
V    Repe...ste.~ 
.........   ....... .  ..... ................ cnww.. p,. fio|/
......   UHF/ VHF
u     o           S    Neobe, o14EiE                                                                                               /*'ol   _s    
FPCM I-PC      se ICde Mul.IT:,-'I
D--I bu                                                                       fPOET          I                      4r
--In  -eI-.T1 6b-cd-es                               S                               C-H/CA/N.
_|&     /                            /~~~~~~~~~~~/ c>    --                      4                       i)<.  -- tA                                6
/                                                                                                                +          /'      4.--.X>_
/HL)EHUETENANGO                                                                                            ,'t. OA v  I f
/                                                 '\ >    A  L T A   V E       R A P A Z             I  Z A B           /    EF OSA5    7
IL ESTEEr . .....22/
WI-- 2g_   w,    X   9O/1/O  S-AIEl/
A4~~~~~~
< > j< Z F t ueoI              J      TI  QICH E                   'C4c.-..-. .-. 2)           /       '        e
AH   D; D  11 R  A 
MAE SU  C   U/I   T L A              /A(PAPAL        J       Li                               H     N      U     A
202t/f  * OCf/S                                                  c/RAE'^     % >>20                                     KtMiESt
_'    FI     OC EAN-- Et   ,SS TEPA   '/V/ '                                 ? 9-.-/
~~.  S'I2C/~~~  i/HE? i/MLsVonDo- 



