-IU 1F a efl .f  . W EY 1VffiN 'e iKCULAT[NG COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use               F4 
RETURN       TO                   Report No. P-1281-BD
REP0R-T2 D7(
ONE INEM<
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CA. .f.. . .(,
June 11, 1973
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Taka (Tk)
As of May 8, 1973
UJS$1.00                 Tks 7.55
Tk 1                     US$.132
Tks 1,000                US$132
Tks 1,000,000            US$132,000
Note:  The Taka is officially valued at 18.9677
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound is now
floating relative to the U. S. dollar and
consequently the Taka-U.S. dollar exchange
rate is subject to change.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
cI



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT,
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO-THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
TE CNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$4.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a technical assis-
tance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Reconstructing the Economy of Bangladesh"
(R72-230) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 13, 1972.
A Country Data Sheet is attached as Annex I. Annex I also contains a brief
description of the economy as presented in paragraphs 2-22 of my Report and
Recommendation to the Executive Directors on an Education Project (IDA/R
73-60) dated May 29, 1973, with minor updating modifications.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
3.        Prior to the independence of Bangladesh, the Bank and the Associa-
tion had made one loan and 19 development credits, totalling US$4.7 million
and US$168.1 million respectively (net of cancellations), for projects
located wholly within what was then East Pakistan. Of these, the loan and
seven of the credits had been fully disbursed, and US$95.6 million remained
undisbursed under 12 development credits. In addition, under ten loans and
eight development credits for projects involving expenditures in both East
and West Pakistan, a total amount of US$257 million was outstanding in
December 1971; part of this amount has been used to finance goods located
in Bangladesh, or services rendered there. The right of Pakistan to make
further withdrawals in respect of expenditures for projects located in the
East was suspended on December 29, 1971 (Sec M71-60), and the undisbursed
amounts for projects in the East were cancelled on September 29, 1972.
4.        In August 1972, Bangladesh became a member of the International
Monetary Fund, the Bank and the Association. It was decided that proposals
would be submitted to the Executive Directors for reactivation of all the
uncompleted projects wholly located in Bangladesh which had previously been
financed with credits to Pakistan. Accordingly, nine such credits in an
aggregate amount of US$105.4 million have since then been made to Bangladesh.
A tenth reactivation credit ($21.0 million for an Education Project) was
approved by the Executive Directors on June 7, 1973,and documents for the last
such credit (in an amount of US$25.0 million for the Dacca-Chittagong Highway
Project) are being distributed to the Executive Directors for consideration
on the same date as the proposed Technical Assistance Project. The aggregate
amount of these reactivation credits of US$151.4 million includes about



US$44.1 million for the notional repayment of amounts disbursed under the
corresponding previous credit agreements with Pakistan, thus debiting
Bangladesh with this amount.
5.        In addition to the reactivation of pre-independence projects
described in the preceding paragraph, the Association has made one new
credit for US$50 million to Bangladesh to help finance the foreign exchange
costs of imports required for the Government's reconstruction program.
Documents for a proposed credit of US$7.5 million for a cereal seeds project
are being distributed to the Executive Directors for consideration on the
same date as the proposed Technical Assistance Project, and a credit of about
US$4 million for inland water transport rehabilitation is expected to be
ready for submission in the near future. Several other projects are under
preparation including two small-scale irrigation projects, a rural development
project, a telecommunications project, a population project and a fertilizer
project. In addition, a second imports program credit is planned in the
coming fiscal year to help meet Bangladesh's immediate and urgent requirements
for materials, components and intermediate goods needed as inputs to utilize
fully existing productive capacity in agriculture and industry.
6.        Annex II contains a summary statement of (i) IDA credits made
to Bangladesh since 1972, and (ii) the loan and credits to Pakistan for
projects located wholly in Bangladesh, which have not been reactivated.
Annex II also contains notes on the status of execution of ongoing projects.
There are no IFC investments in Bangladesh.
7.        Of pre-1971 Bank and IDA lending for projects in the present
territory of Bangladesh, about one-third went to agriculture, about one-
fourth each to transportation and industry, and the remaiderr to education,
urban water supply and telecommunications.   The relatively low proportion of
lending for agriculture, in a country where over 80 percent of the population
are directly dependent on agriculture for their livelihood, is primarily due
to the very unusual difficulties encountered in project preparation. These
difficulties result from Bangladesh's particularly difficult environment,
with a terrain interlaced with rivers, a climate that regularly brings
devastating floods as well as droughts, and with a very high population
density. In recognition of the special efforts required to develop projects
in these difficult conditions, the Association made a credit of US$2 million
(136-PAK) in 1969 to finance general consultants for the EP Water and Power
Development Authority. Indeed, in early 1971, a second technical assistance
credit of US$2.5 million was appraised but further work on that proposal
was later suspended. As a result of these special efforts, a program for
substantially increased support by the Bank Group (as well as by a number of
donor countries) for the development of the agriculture and water sector
was emerging.
8.        The events of 1971 interrupted all project preparation efforts,
and in 1972 the priority needs of the reconstruction effort took precedence
over project preparation. In addition, the implementation of earlier
projects brought out the immense technical and financial problems encountered
in the carrying out of capital intensive water control projects. A thorough
review of alternative strategies for the development of the agriculture and water



- 3-
resources sector, undertaken by the Association during 1971 and 1972, suggested
the need for a stronger emphasis -   especially during the next few years --
on less ambitious projects, which are expected to yield results more quickly.
This changing view of the priorities is set forth in detail in the Bank's
nine-volume "Land and Water Resources Sector Study" (R 73-56, dated April 2,
1973). As a result of these developments, Bangladesh has only relatively
few projects ready for implementation, and requires substantial assistance
in the preparation of projects over the next two or three years.
9.        The Bank intends to assist the Government towards its development
objectives in various ways. In the early years, a large measure of
program lending will be needed, to finance the import of production and
construction materials and components. In the longer run, the emphasis
of Bank Group financing would again be on project assistance. In order
to build up a sizeable project pipeline for consideration by the Bank Group
and other sources of external assistance, a major input of technical assistance
will be of high priority in the near future.
PART III - TRE PROJECT
10.       Bangladesh's difficult development problems have always required
high levels of technical assistance. These problems have been aggravated
by the events of the last two years, and many institutions responsible for
project planning and implementation have to be strengthened. Much of this
technical assistance will have to be provided by expatriates, and the need
for funds to finance such activities is very great.
11.       A major portion of the technical assistance needs is expected to
be met by the UNDP and bilateral agencies. The UNDP's Five-Year Indicative
Planning Figure for Bangladesh has been tentatively set at US$18 million.
In addition, some bilateral funds are already available, and it is hoped
that more will be pledged before too long. However, a good deal of the
bilateral funds will be tied, and the UNDP funds available fall far short of
projected needs for free funds. The Bank Group is likely to provide some
of the funds needed by adding technical assistance components to various
credits for regular projects but this procedure would not provide technical
assistance funds as quickly or for such a broad range of activities as is
necessary. It is therefore proposed that the Association provide a credit
of US$4.0 million to help finance high-priority technical assistance activities,
in cases where other funds are not readily or quickly available on appropriate
terms, or where financing by the Bank Group would permit more expeditious
preparation of projects that qualify for international support, from the
Bank Group or otherwise. There is no doubt that technical assistance funds
of this magnitude will be required in order to avoid delays in meeting
Bangladesh's urgent requirements for assistance in the planning and
implementation of its economic development program.



- 4 -
12.       The funds from the proposed credit would be allocated to specific
sub-projects by mutual agreement between the Government and the Association.
The credit funds would be used primarily for feasibility studies and other
investigations required for preparing projects for financing by the Associa-
tion, with emphasis on projects in the field of agriculture and water re-
sources development. However, the proceeds of the proposed credit could also
be used for the preparation of projects for financing by other donors, for
the strengthening of institutions responsible for project planning and imple-
mentation (through the provision of management assistance or staff training),
and for more general studies which may be required prior to the preparation
of specific projects. A Project Summary is attached as Annex III.
13.       In the agriculture and water development sector, the Association
has been assisting the Government for some time in working out a program
of technical assistance and studies to enhance the preparation of projects
which would result in increased food production in the short term. This
technical assistance and studies program, which is estimated to require
expenditures in an amount of about US$13 million during the next two years
alone, was presented to the countries and agencies attending the International
Meeting on Development of Bangladesh, held in Dacca on March 31 and April 1,
1973. The program emphasizes projects which have a high degree of labor
intensity and which would not commit the Government to large and indivisible
capital outlays. Included in the program are studies for the preparation
of projects for securing and distributing farm inputs such as high-yielding
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides and associated credit; projects for
improving research, training and agricultural extension services; projects
to increase livestock and fishery production; assistance to the rural works
program for small-scale farm irrigation, drainage, and transportation
facilities which can be provided by local labor and to increase rural
employment; and quick-yielding irrigation and drainage projects involving
mainly low-lift pumps and tubewells. A more detailed description of this
program is set forth in Annex IV. Of course, this program will have to be
kept flexible, and it is quite likely that during its implementation, some
new projects may be added. Proceeds of the proposed credit would complement
funds from other sources to help meet these requirements; in fact, it is
expected that a substantial portion of the proposed credit would be used in
this sector.
14.       While the technical assistance requirements in sectors other than
agriculture and water development have not yet been identified in the same
detail, there is no doubt that a great need for assistance exists. For
example, help from consultants will be needed: (a) for the preparation
of projects in the transport sector which have been identified by a recent
Bank mission reviewing inland water shipping problems, or which are likely
to be identified in the general transport sector survey currently being
carried out with financing from the United Kingdom; (b) for further pre-
paratory work on a proposal for a petrochemical and fertilizer project to
utilize the country's natural gas resources; (c) for the improvement of
Bangladesh's statistical services; and (d) to improve industrial operations
and management. Additional requirements for assistance are certain to emerge
during the next few months, either from the Government's own work or as the



- 5 -
result of sector surveys, such as the recent Bank missions to review the
small-scale industry and the jute sub-sectors, the forthcoming UNESCO educa-
tion sector review and the Bank's power sector review which is planned for
later this year.
15.       As specific needs for consultants' assistance are identified,
and the allocation of certain amounts of the credit to particular sub-
projects are agreed between the Government and the Association, staff from
the Bank's Resident Office in Dacca and from Headquarters in Washington
would provide assistance to the Government, as required, in the preparation
of consultants' terms of reference and in selecting the appropriate consul-
tants. The selection of consultants, their terms of reference and the firal
contract between the Government and the consultants would be subject to
agreement between the Government and the Association. The Association
would also provide assistance to the Government in supervising the worz4 -'f
the consultants. Consultants' terms of reference would emphasize the im-
portance of training local staff so as to reduce the need for foreign
assistance as rapidly as possible. The Planning Commission of the Govern-
ment of Bangladesh would be responsible for ensuring effective coordinaticn
of the various Government ministries and agencies concerned in the implemen:a-
tion of the project.
16.       It is expected that most of the technical assistance would be
provided by foreign consultants. However, the Association supports the
Government's desire to use qualified local consultants to the largest
degree possible, either independently or in collaboration with foreign
firms. The proposed credit would therefore finance the foreign exchange
cost (estimated to be about 70 percent of total cost) of work performed by
foreign consultants and 70 percent of total cash payments made for work
performed by local consultants, whether hired directly or as sub-consultants.
Credit funds would also be available, by agreement between the Government
and the Association, for financing the foreign exchange cost of trips by
Government personnel to work with consultants at their home office, overseas
training, and such material and equipment required for approved technical
assistance sub-projects as may be procured directly by the Government.
17.       The proposed credit is on standard IDA terms with repayment over
50 years. The amortization period for credits for the preparation of single
projects is normally ten years, in the expectation that such credits would
be refinanced from the subsequent construction credit. However, for multi-
purpose technical assistance projects similar to the proposed credit to
Bangladesh standard IDA terms have been employed. A ten-year amortization
period would be inappropriate since the proposed credit would be used to
finance a variety of tasks, some of which are likely to lead to IDA credits
while others would prepare projects for other donors, and some indeed may
not lead directly to any investment at all.



-6-
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the recommendation of the Committee referred
to in Article V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development
Credit Agreement follows the form previously used for this type of project.
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 11, 1973



Aniex I
A. COUNR DAT     -B                                               Page 1
ARSU                    POPULATION                                                 DENSITY
=11,131 kr.2          _75  0Ein (mid-1972)                                        530pr km2
Rate of Growths  2.7 - 3.0% (from 1q65 tc 1970)            840 per km  of arable land
POPULlTION CHARACTERISTICS 1971                                    HEALTH 1969
Crude Birth Rate (por 1,000),   50                                 Population per Physician:      8,800
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)t   20                                 Population per Hospital Bed:   9,400
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)s   141
DICQME DISTRIBUTICN 1°70                                     -     DISTRIEUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP 1971
% of National Incos, Lowest Quintiles      7                       % Owned by Top 10% of Owners:        35
Highest Quintilet  46                        % Owned by Smallest 10% of Owners:    1
NUTRITION 1972                                                     EDUCATICN 1969
Calorie Intake as % of Raquirementes   90                          Adult Literacy Ratet 18
aNP PSR CAPITA IN 1972s   US$50-70
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1970                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US $ Mln.      %                           1960-65     1965-70       1971
aNP at Market Fricea      4,500       100.0                           4.4        4-4*-
Exports of Goods            513        11.4                            ..          ..         -21
Imperts of Ooods            639        14.2                           ..           *-         -16
OUTPLIT, LABOR FORCE AMD PRODUCTIVITr IN 1970
Value Added            Labor Force  V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln.       g             ilio           US$
Agriculture               2,673        59.4
Industry                    297         6.6             .3            990
Services                   1,530       34.0
Unallocated                  .           .
TotaL/Average          bF5         2Ss1n 
G(WIR &iNMENT FINANCE
General Goverrnent
(Rps. Mln.)   fiol' GDP
1970        lGy7
Cu-rent Receipts                  2,396         7.5
Cu:aent Expenditure               1,184         3 
Current. Surpplus                 1,212         3.4
Capital Expenditures              2,939         9-,
LE !.'rnal Assistance (net)       1,524         4.8
MA' jY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1965       1969       1970        1971   Dec. 17, 1971  June >w72
(i-illion Tks. Outstanding End PerfiT
Mon-y and Quasi Money                     ..         ..         ..         ..       5,393          ,
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Non -y and Quasi Money as % of GDP        ..         ..         ..          ..         16            21
Ge-.ral Price Index (1963 - 100)         111        127         138        143
An: ial Percentage Change in
f C-ral Prine Index                      8          9          5           4         ..*
BAlANiCE OF PA!HJlITS                                           MERCIA14DISE EXPORcTS (AVERAGE 1969-72)
1969     1970     1971                                          iS $ Mln.     ,
(Millons US $T-
Raw Julte                       123        28.9
Exj.-rt.s of Goods             480      513      4409           Jute Manufactures               143        33.7
Imrorts of Ooods              600       639      ;314           Tea                              Ill        9.
Rferurce Gap (Deficit - -)    _-I:     J76      -5              All 0   ahor CmmoditieBl                    7.
Total                                103.0
RATE; OF EXCHAOGE
Th! ou Ih - May 1972          As of     8, 1973
US  .17     ak752akao              i
T    1.00 - US $ 0.14         T    1.00,- US $ 0.13
not aavailable
.not applicable
South Asta Department/Bangladesh
May 8, 1973



ANNEX I
Page 2
it. *rilE LCONOLfY!/
ISlACkgr-U-nd-
1.        on December 16, 1971 the Government of Bangladesh assumed control
of the territory comprising the former East Wing of Pakistan. Even in the
best of circumstances Bangladesh would constitute a complex development
problem. The people are poor (per capita income of US$50 to US$70 per annum,
a figure which has not risen over the past 20 years), overcrowded (population
density ia nearly 1,400 per square mile) and becoming more so (population
In growing at 3 percent per annum), short-lived (life expectancy at birth is
well under 50 years), in many cases unemployed (perhaps 25-30 percent), and
largely illiterate (under 20 percent literacy rate).
2.        rhe physical problems of Bangladesh -- its precarious enviroument,
lack of natural resources, and alluvial terrain with resultant high cost of
infrastructure -- have been compounded by poorly chosen and implemented
investment programs in the past. Perhaps the most striking failure lies
in the increasing gap between foodgrain production and requirements.
Bangladesih, a predominantly agricultural country, must import about 15 per-
cent of its food requirements even in years of "normal" production such as
1969/70 when 1.5 million tons of foodgrains were imported. Bangladesh today
It one of the most extreme examples of rural poverty in the world.
3.        The year and a half in which the Government of Bangladesh has been
In control of the country has been dominated by the need to tackle the
urgent rehabilitation tasks arising out of the cyclone of November 1970 and
thc political struggles and war of 1971. First, law and order had to be re-
established, political stability achieved and the administrative framework
reconstituted. Second, refugees had to be resettled, relief provided and
thc transport system reconstructed to permit the distribution of food. Third,
the economy had to be restored to pre-war levels of output and employment.
4.         wo of the principal achievements of the Government since indepen-
dence h.ave been the progress towards restoration of law and order to the
countryslde and the formulation of a new constitution.   The constitution
Which came ilnto effect on December 16, 1972, provides for the establishment
(it a pamrl iamentary democracy in which the President is the constitutional
itejid of Stnte and executive authority is exercised by the Cabinet under
Lilt I'rime Minister. The Cabinet collectively it responsible to Parliament,
whlcha consists of 300 members elected by the people from single territorial
constituencies by direct election. The first parliamentary elections were
hfcit in Marcli 1973.
5.        MosL of thie refugees have been resettled, relief has been provided
and the widely feared famine has not materialized, thanks in part to massive
ns:.istannc initially from India and subsequently from a number of other
countries. mostly under the auspices of UNROD (United Nations Relief
Operation lin Dacca). The port of Chittagong was restored to 90 percent of
Its prew.ar capacity by tcle end of last June. The roads were quickly repaired
I/ Taken, with slight modification, from paragraphs 3-22 of the Report and
Rc.oagendation to the Executive Directors on an Education Project
(1DA/R7J-60) dated May 29, 1973.



ANNEX I
Page 3
.I Il dI vI r Ier lIrolig it ii Lo I 9ubtI L ute for damaged br idges.  IlIhe vital ah itrab
Ih r (I I  wli I cIa I I k s li i I t agonV. to l)ac ca ly r: I I will not, hlowever, be usable
I It I  Olct ober l  l)/.  (iite r-consLruction process is now well in hand and aid
(onouid imnts i:.iv' been rucelved for meeting the most urgent needs.
lood and Otlher Production
6.        Ihc gravest problem confronting the Government since independence
hinEs been the food situation. The 1970/71 crops were poor and the aman crop
of D)ecember 1971 was disrupted by the war. Record levels of food imports of
about 2.5 million tons in 1972 have prevented famine from occurring. Never-
theless, per capita foodgrain availabilities in 1972 were well below 1969/7-0
levels and this, combined with the internal transport difficulties, wide--
Fprend hoarding, and smuggling of foodgrains to India, led to a 50 percent
rtse in prtces over the year. By October 1972 it was apparent that the
monsoon latd been exceptionally poor and that a critical situation was likely
Lo develol) once again. According to preliminary assessments the main rice
crop was 2(0 percent lower than the original estimnates.  Even assuming that
[lie winter rice crop is satisfactory, there will still be a total foodgrain
finport requirement of at least 2.5 million tons in 1973.
7.        Won-agricultural sectors have also been slow to recover.  Indus-
trial nctivity came to a virtual standstill from November 1971 to January
1972. Since then, production in general seems to have returned to about
70 percent of prc-war levels, though there is considerable variation among
Industries. Many industries lhave experienced serious shortages of raw
materials (such as cotton, yarn, chemicals and cement), spare parts and
capital Roods. In large part this is due to the disrupt,ion of trade both
during the war and subsequently, with new Government licensing and importing
Instiltutions not operating effectively.  In addition industrial production
hias been affected by a variety of problems ranging from lack of demand
(especially for those industries formerly exporting to West Pakistan) to labor
problems.  Low output, combined with thie Government's inability to get a
siubstantial amount of imported consumer goods flowing into the country, has
been a major factor contributing to the rapid price increases.
TIrade
.          )one of thc first acts of the Government was to devalue the taka
ly '3 pelrcent at official rates, to establish it at par with the Indian
rupee.  1hc bonus vouclher system for exports was removed and this, combined
wLth tile (ievaluation, had the important effect of offering a higher
effective exchange rate for raw jute and a somewhat lower rate for locally
manaufactured jute goods. Exports increased fairly rapidly after the
restimption of trade in February 1972. The recovery was made possible by the
exintence of large inventories of jute and jute products at a time when t-
pr ices fetched on world markets still reflected the severe shortages of
1971. As 1972 wore on, there were reminders of the difficult world market
position of jute, with clear evidence of European raw jute importers switching
to nynthetics and of declining demand. As a result, jute exports are
projected at US$325 million in 1972/73 as against US$350 million in 1969/70.



ANNEX I
Page 4
Tisotal exports of the country over the year are projected at about uS$37'i
ml I l(oi, whtict compares with about US$500 million exported to West Pakistan
anid tliIrd countries In the pre-war period.  Most of this decline is on
nc-rotint of items such as tea, matches, fish and paper products which were
forrfnrly exported to West Pakistan.
lhe Flrfit Annual Plan
9.         In July 1972 the first budget and Annual Plan were presented.
'Ithe Plan proposed some US$430 million of public development expenditure
and a furthier US$160 million for reconstruction. About half of the develop-
menit expenditurv was for agriculture, rural institutions, and water and
flood control.   Ihe Plan is a pragmatic document which aims at restoring
econiomic activity to thie pre-war level. Even so, the projected amounts of
development expenditure represent a sizeable increase from the past and
tihere is likely to be a considerable shortfall. The level of imports (and
tle con"equent foreign aid disbursements) which is assumed in the Plan,
may miot be ochiievcd in 1972/73, leading to shortfalls in revenues from
customw dutlies aid counterpart funds. The budgetary situation is very
closely tied to indirect taxation and this in turn is dependent on foreign
Lradle leveLs. Pressing budgetary needs have had to be met through an
expannion Ini the money supply of 82 percent between January and December
1972.  11X"s hlns combined witlh commodity shiortages to cause the serious price
problemH, whlich because of their political implications loom largest in
short-term economic concerns of the Government at present.
I'rioriLies for Crowth
10.       Time elections of March 1973 and the publication of the Five-Year
Plan expected for June signal the end of the "reconstruction" phase and
tlc beginning of tiic Government's attempt to come to grips with the long-
term development problems. The authorities will be faced with a host of
fundamental decisions concerning policies and programs. The Plan will
provide the basis for analysing the quantitative dimensions of the develop-
ment problem. The following is an attempt to delineate the issues in
general terms, drawn mainly from the Economic Report on Bangladesh.
1I.       Perhaps the hilghest priority attaches to gearing up the economic
administration to prepare and implement development projects in a manner
ulte dlfferent from the past.   Wlile the Planning Cosmmission is now
Lecttntltcilly well prepared to devise economic plans, the need for effective
coordination and improved project preparation and implementation has not
yet bteen met. 'I'lie operating ministries and autonomous institutions, which
werz already weak, were in many cases weakened still further as a result
ol cahanges Lii key personnel during 1971 and the unsettled period in early
1972. It will be necessary to face these problems squarely,. identify the
g4ips in perHonnel and prepare for the combination of training and technical
assistance which will be necessary to close these gaps.
12.       The urgent need to engineer a rapid and visible improvement in
rur.al living standards points to a rapid expansion of programs related La



ANNEX I
Page 5
rurnl dIvelopmenlt. These proRrama are central to future development, and
development activities in all sectors should be designed to reflect the
crucial importLance of rural development. The programs evolved at the
Comilin Academy for Rural Development are especially promising and deserving
of support.
13.       In view of the great technical difficulties arising in the
constrIictlofl of large-scale water control projects, Bangladesh's urgent need
to incrcnse food production requires emphasis to be placed initially on
lMIH ambitious projects with greater immediate impact in increasing yields.
I:mphasiR shoul(l be placed upon: improved distribution of inputs; appropriate
pricing policies for both inputs and agricultural products; much more
research tlhnn hitherto on developing new varieties, improved methlods of
culttvationi, input requirements and alternative cropping possibilities;
attelltion to such currently neglected areas as livestock production and
fisheries; encouragement to private investment in agriculture; and extensi.
of cred it facilittes to smallholders.
14.       I'roducts such as leather goods, fish and paper products are
minor export Items at present, but represent possible growth opportunities
for the economy. A proper system of incentives for these and new export
Itens nieeds to be considered. Marketing and promotion activities need to
be undertaken both to redirect the products formerly exported to West
P'akiR tan and to Increase and diversify exports.
15.       'licre is no easy way to increase public savings in the short-run.
A prograni of taxation needs to be drawn up which will be elastic to growth
In Income. An essential. element in any such program will be the efficient
operatIon u ind economic pricing of public utilities and enterprises. There
RhouildI br flexibility and experimentation to provide financial incentives
to mntgiemci&t and lnbor, and improved financial reporting to enable
ka0thorIties to make necessary clianges.
16.       P'rogra:ms with a high employment content should be empliasized.
Ihe rurnl works program has the potential for creating productive infra-
structture iIn tIIe rural areas, through hiring seasonally unemployed workers;
sinalI-sc.lue IndAustries can have an impact on both output and employment if
promotioln, [inincing and incentives are adequate; and the high labor
conitent of lute production increases the importance of efforts to keep jute
price competItlve.
I7.       Ihle eduention system, based on traditional models, has over-
nIphilsIzed thteoretical formal education and has been excessively concentrated
hii urban areas.  Iducation must be reoriented towards a better-educated
rtir:aI population and skilled manpower in the modern sector. Proposals for
mnias education have been put forward which, while far from being fully
worked out, represent a step in the right direction. The deterioration of
qutiality In hligher education and the divorce of the universities from the
real -development situation are problems requiring urgent attention.



ANNEX I
Page 6
IH.       The population will double by the year 2000 if present growth rates
are mAintained. Tle population control program needs a completely new
npproach witIh proper political backing and a sense of real urgency. It must
be not merely the particular program of one department, but a concern
permeating the eotlre administration.
External Aid an4 Growth
19.       Bangladesh will require large and continuing external assistanpe
to achieve an acceptable growth rate. Long-term projections suggest that,
even to maintairn the existing per capita income level in the face of
continued population growth, net aid disbursements of between US$100 million
and US$200 mllion per annum would be required. Aid disbursement levels of
nbout US$300 million would permit imports of only about US$700 million,
whichi, given the higher foodgrain component, would allow for no more invqst-
ment goods and paw materials than were imported in 1969/70 into the area
thnt became Bangladesh. Average aid disbursements of US$500 million per
year over the five-year plan period would be required to permit imports to
be mAintained at a level of US$900 million and the rate of investment at
the 12-15 perceikt of GDP figure which is needed for a 5 percent per annuu
growth of GnP. There is little prospect for substantial domestic financtng
of Investment in the short-term given the depressed levels of income. la
time, of course,, the substitution of domestically grown foodgrains for
Imports would release foreign exchange for expanded capital and raw materials
imports.
20.       Aid d%sbursements this year and next are likely to be limited
by the capacity to import efficiently rather than by inadequate commitmeit
levels. Commitqents, which were at about US$1.3 billion as of the end ot.
1972. have been extremely high, reflecting the sympathetic response from
donors to the nqeds of the critical food situation and reconstruction
program. While levels of aid commitments during the next few years will
certainly be lower, it Is essential for disbursements to be maintained well
above pre-war lovels if Bangladesh is to make any significant progress ip
rnising living wtandardas.
21.       With ap adequate aid flow and better economic management,
tangladesh shotild certainly improve on past growth rates.  A sustained
growth rate of close to 5 percent should be possible, although it would
need good fortune as well as exceptionally good management to get above
thut level gives the unfavorable ratio of population to resources.   The
keys to growth %0lll probably be increased agriculture production on the
olle hlndi, and gGod export performance on the other.  A sustained rate of
growth; of 5 percent would mean that by the end of the century the majority
of the population could be adequately, if simply, fed, housed, clothed aud
eliiented. Given the difficult circumstances of Bangladesh, even this would
le n major nchiqvement..



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF RANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
As of May 31, 1973
A.   IDnA CREDITS TO BANGLADESH
Credft                                                           US$ Million
Number   Year                   Purpose                   Amount    Undisbursed
339     1972  Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228 of 1971)                     25.0       25.0
340     1972  Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                     13.0       12.2
141     1972  Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208
of 1970)                                    14.0       13.7
343     1972  Telecoimunicattons (replaces part of
Credit No. 145 of 1969)                      7.3        5.2
34r,    1972   Reconstruction Imports                     50.0        50.0
353     1973  Small-Scale Industry (replaces Credit
No. 192 of 1970)                             3.0        2.8
367     1973  Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42 of 1963)                       7.0        3.7
368     1973  Dacca Water and Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41 of 1963)                      13.2        7.2
S-14 /1   1973  Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credits S-8 and S-10 of 1969 and 1970)       3.15       1.1 /2
381 /1  1973   Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83 of 1966)                             19.7        1.3 /2
Total            155.35 15  122.2
R.   BANK LOAN AND IDA CREDITS TO PAKISTAN FOR PROJECTS WHOLLY IN THE
TERRITORY OF BANGLADESH (EXCLUDING CREDITS BEINC REPLACED BY
CRFEDITS TO BANGLADESH SHOWN IN (A) ABOVE)
US$ Million
Amount (Less Cancellations)
Bank         IDA
11     1961  Dacca Irrigation                                         1.0
16     1961   Inland Ports                                            2.0
321     1962   Railways                                    4.7
39     1963   Brahmaputra Flood Control                               5.0
40      1963  Chandpur Irrigation 1                                   5.3
49 /4   1964  Education                                               3.7
53     1964   Highways                                                3.6
56     1964   Eastern Railway                                        10.0
65     1965   Inland Water Transport                                  5.2
87 S4   1966  Education                                               4.0
136     1969   Technical Assistance (EPWAPDA)                          2.0
Total                   4.7        41.8
Of which has been repaid                    1.4        0.1
Total outstanding /5                 3.3       41.7 /
/1   Not yet effective.
12   Amount which will remain following notional repayment of amounts disbursed
under previous credit to Pakistan.
L3   All undisbursed balances under these credits as of September 29, 1972
have been cancel red.
IA   Credits to be replaced by Education credit to Bangladesh, approved
June 7. 1973.
/5   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects In Execution 1/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; $25.0 Million
Credit of October 18, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
This Credit became effective on January 17, 1973. Implementation
of the oriRinal project, financed under Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971, did
not commence prior to the suspension of disbursements. The Government has
now met up the central organization for the project, and task forces for
the execution of the sub-projects are being assembled. Sites for cyclone
shelters are being selected, tenders for construction have been invited,
and the Project Coordinator is hopeful of completing sixty shelters before
tlhe onset of the monsoon season. On the primary roads sub-project, surveyors
are In the field d'etermining alignments and making detailed assessments
of work qunntities. on the Cyclone Warning sub-project, the sub-project
manager is finalizing specifications of equipment which must be imported
tto atrengthen the meteorological stations serving the coastal area. Other
ntih)-projects (inland water transport, telecommunications, feeder roads, and
cotntnl flshertes) are less advanced. A supervision mission in March 1973
hans reviewed wti h government the actions required to expedite implementation
of these sub-projects.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project; $13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
ThtiR Credit became effective on January 17, 1973. When work on
the project, previously financed under Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970, was
nus)enflled in 1971, the major project civil works were about half completed.
Tue contractor manufacturing equipment for the regulators had also made
aubhstantial progress.  Interim financing by Sweden allowed reappointment
of project consultants, resumption of construction and renegotiation of the
contract for manufactture and installation of the equipment for the regulators.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; $14.0 Million Credit of November 6,
1972; Closin& Date: December 31, 1976
The project is also being assisted by a $6 million credit from
Sweden and a $6 million grant from Canada. The IDA and Swedish credits
became effective on January 17, 1973. The project was originally financed
by IDA Credtt No. 108-PAK of 1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Bids
for the drilling of project wells had been received in 1971 but no contracts
were awarded due to the disturbed conditions. Interim financing from Sweden
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
tlhe progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy thep. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
permltted reappointment of project consultants and retendering. Bids
hnve been recetved for well drilling and supply of pumps and engines for the
weIla, and contracts are expected to be awarded in the next few weeks.
Contracts have been awarded for required vehicles and miscellaneous equip-
ment.
Cr. No. 343    Telecowumnications Project; $7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The project was
originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969, and goods and
services valued at about US$2.2 million were received in Dacca prior to
suZpension of disbursements. Orders had also been placed for the remaining
equipment now to be financed under Credit No. 343, and the suppliers are
understood to be prepared to resume work at the original contract prices.
Cr. No. 345     Reconstruction Imports Project; $50.0 Million Credit
of November 30, 1972; Closing Date: August 31, 1974
Credit became effective January 30, 1973. The Government has
prepare(t a statement allocating the proceeds of the Credit among the various
eliRible categories of expenditure, taking into account funds expected to
be available from other sources of assistance. Letters of credit guaranteed
by IDA have been opened for US$6.2 million and disbursements are expected
to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 353     Small-Scale Industry Project; $3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective May 14, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970. By December 1971, when
disbursements were ouspended, 28 sub-projects had been approved and $2.19
million had been allocated to these projects. Work has now begun on
reactivation of the interrupted sub-projects and canvassing for new sub-
projects.
Cr. No. 367     Chittagong Water Supply Project; $7.0 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disbursements
were suspended, US$3.3 million had been disbursed.    The project is now about
60 percent completed. The former project consultants have been reappointed
and tender documents are expected to be issued shortly.
Cr. No. 368     Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; $13.2 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disbursements
were suspended, US$6.0 million had been disbursed. The water supply portion
of the project is now about 75 percent completed and the sewerage portion



ANNEX II
Page 4
about 45 percent completed. The former project consultants have been
reappolnted and tender documents are expected to be issued shortly.
Cr. No. S-14   Irrigation Engineering Project; $3.15 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1975
Not yet effective. The project was originally financed by IDA
Credits No. S-8 *nd S-10 of 1969 and 1970. The studies financed under
Credit S-8 have been completed, except for some final payments to the
consultants. The studies financed under Credit S-10 are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1974.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; $19.7 Million Credit
of May 18, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Not yet effective. The project was originally financed by a
$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kronor credit frpm
the Kingdom of Sweden. The Kingdom of Sweden is again providing a 25
million Kronor Credit. The project is almost completed and 95 percent of
the new IDA and fwedish credits will go toward repaying the previous cred.its.
The remaining fupds ($1.25 million from IDA and about $0.25 million equivalent
from Sweden) wilt be used to pay outstanding bills for work completed pripr
to the war, comptetion of some supporting facilities for the grain storage
Rilob, replacement of spares and equipment damaged during the war, strengthening
of the infestation control system, and a feasibility study for a second grain
storage project.



ANNEX III
BANGLADESH - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Summary
Borrower:                People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                   US$4.0 million equivalent
Terms.                    Standard
rroject Description;      Technical assistance in pre-investment planning,
feasibility and engineering studies, consulting
and advisory services and training for staff of
agencies responsible for project planning or in.-le-
mentation. Emphasis would be on agriculturt and
water development sectors.
Financing Plan:           Credit would finance foreign exchange costs of
work performed by foreign consultants, 70 percent
of cash payments for work performed bv local
consultants, and thie foreign exchange costs of
material and equipment procured by the Government
in support of such consultants services training
programs or overseas travel to work with consultants.
Estimated Disbursements:          US$ million
FY'74 FY'75 FY'76
1.5     1.7   0.8
Procurement Arrangements:    All contracts for consultant services would be
subject to prior approval of the Association.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
.BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES PROGRAM
AGRICULTURE AND WATER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
The following is an excerpt from the report "Bangladesh -
Agriculture and Water Development - The Hard Core Program (1973/74-1974/75)",
dated February 8, 1973, which was prepared at the request of the Government
of Bangladesh by a Bank Group mission which visited Bangladesh in October
1972. The Government of Bangladesh distributed copies of this report to
all countries which were invited by the Government to attend the International
Meeting on Development of Bangladesh, held in Dacca on March 31 and April I,
1973.
"3.33     In view of the complex physical environment in Bangladesh, new
opportunities since independence and a two year lapse in project preparation
and studies, the mission and the Government propose a sizeable program
of technical assistance and studies to improve future performance. This
program would require commitments of US$6 million in 1972/73, US$8.3 million
in 1973/74 and US$6.8 million in 1974/75 and expenditures of US$1.5 million
in 1972/73, US$7.0 million in 1973/74, US$5.8 million in 1974/75 and
US$6.8 million in later years. On an annual basis this would involve from
80 to&100 man years of technical assistance, which seems a large but manage-
able program on the basis of even pre-independence Bangladesh.
'3.34     The main objective of the technical assistance program would be
to fill gaps in the expertise required to implement the rest of the hard
core program developed by the Association and the Government. It would
provide assistance for feasibility and other studies as well as planning,
budgeting, execution and monitoring of physical works. Project and contract
administration would be given special attention. The Ministries of Planning
and Finance (including the Planning Commission); Agriculture; Livestock,
Fisheries and Forestry; Local Government, Rural Development, and Cooperatives;
and Flood Control and Water Resources (including the Water Development Board
and the Irrigation Directorate) would be the main recipients.
"3.35     The priority for studies follows the hard core program's emphasis
on quick results. To exploit the highest potential quick-yielding develop-
ment opportunities, five types of studies would be needed. First, aerial
photography would record more accurately the geographic, land use and
seasonal drainage and flood patterns. Second, ongoing surface water
hydrologic investigations would be oriented to support top priority short-run
water developments, to supplement the hydrologic study of the main rivers
(para 3.40), and to control facilities for the future. Third, topographic
surveys would determine more accurately the areas suitable for intensified
and expanded programs for high-yielding crop varieties and areas suffering
from impeded drainage and flooding. Fourth, channel surveys would help



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
to prepare the required engineering plans and designs to improve water
conveyance systems for drainage and irrigation. Fifth, land use and land
classification surveys would be used to determine comparative pre-project
and post-project agricultural production.
"3.36     To utilize fully the potential for tubewell irrigation, three
types of studies are needed. First, hydrogeological surveys, and related
engineering and economic investigations would establish technical and
economic feasibility along with determining the acquifer potential. Second,
tubewell engineering studies would aim at designing more economic tubewells.
Third, tubewell monitoring studies would identify problems in achieving
full design capacity.
"3.37     Comparative farm economic studies would focus on designing
programs which correspond better than in the past to farmers' opportunities
and capabilities. Such programs would provide farmers better incentives to
exert their intiative, and induce them to pay a reasonable amount for now
highly subsidized inputs and development schemes. The economic studies would
compare traditional agricultural practices with specific improvement programs,
including high yielding varieties with related inputs, low-lift pump irriga-
tion, small water control works and drainage improvements, tubewell irrigation,
river flood control embankments, polders, and coastal embankments.
"3.38     Detailed regional planning studies are needed to get the most from
local resources, to increase their potential by such means as water storage
and conveyance systems, to relieve problems like impeded drainage and
flooding and to provide infrastructure and technical services. The regional
studies would identify, formulate and start preparation of projects which
would follow those now nearing completion and those to be started under t1is
hard core program. They would also generate necessary data. The first
regional study tQ start would be for the Southwest, followed by those for
the Southeast and Northeast, which are closely linked hydrologically, and
finally by the Northwest.
"3.39     The main issues of the Southwest study would be (a) how to expand
irrigation, (b) local water storage, (c) channel construction and improvewents
for irrigation and drainage, (d) use of tidal flows for irrigation and
drainage, and (e) salt water intrusion. The Southeast study would emphasize
improvement of the existing regionwide channel system to provide irrigation
and drainage. The Northeast is linked to the Southeast by the Meghna river.
An important thrust of the Northeast study would be to determine the impact
on the Northeast of possible water control structures on the Lower Meghna to
serve the Southeast. The study would also consider possibilities for improved
irrigation and drainage along the fringes of the deeply flooded Sylhet
depression which covers the region's center.   Finally, the Northwest study
would focus on the interactions between ongoing tubewell programs and surface
water developments such as the major gravity drainage scheme proposed for
the area behind the Brabmaputra right bank embankment. The study would also
assess the potential structural design criteria.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
113.40    To undertake successfully more diffitult large scale drainage and
irrigation schemes in the future will require a hydrologic study of the main
rivers. The study would consider possibilities to increase irrigation water
supply, would provide basic hydrological data (including hydrometeorological
studies to determine maximum potential and maximum probable floods), and
would establish structural design criteria.
"3.41     Specific smaller studies are needed on various subjects.   These
include the tolerance of rice to various depths and durations of submergence
and the management of polders and soil moisture storage capacity as an
adjunct to rainfall analyses conducted under the Sector Study.
"3.42     Finally, an important part of the studies program would be to
institutionalize many of these investigations to assure their continuity.
Special attention would be given to assuring feedback between and integration
of regional and national studies, which would require the Government to set
up a special study coordination unit."



