CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 409 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 409 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Special Definition
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to    Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "sub-project" means a particular study
or project of technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account in the name
of the Borrower and shall credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Agreement and the General Conditions and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit agreed between the Borrower and the Association
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account, to the extent set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section 2.03, such amounts
as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, as shall be required
to meet payments to be made) after the date of this Agreement for the reasonable
cost of goods and services required to carry out sub-projects.
(b)   Withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made in respect of:
(i)        expenditures in currencies other than the currency of the
Borrower for services rendered by non-Bangalee consultants;
(ii)       the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of cash payments made
for services rendered by Bangalee consultants;
(iii)       expenditures in currencies other than the currency of the
Borrower for equipment and materials required to carry out
sub-projects and procured directly by the Borrower; and
(iv)        expenditures in currencies other than the currency of the
Borrower for overseas travel of the Borrower's personnel working
on sub-projects with the consultants referred to in (i) or (ii)
above or for training programs.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1983 and ending January 1, 2023, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and e-ch installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Description of Project; Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Project for which the Credit is granted consists of the
carrying out of high-priority studies and other projects of technical assistance
designed to assist the Borrower in the planning and implementation of its programs
of economic development and rehabilitation and selected by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. The purpose and scope of each sub-project, the method of
implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of proceeds of the Credit
shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement exclusively to expenditures on
the Project.
Section 3.04. Contracts made by the Borrower for consultants services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be subject to prior agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the equipment
and materials to be financed under Section 2.03(b)(iii) of this Agreement shall
be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in April 1972 as revised in October 1972.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause each sub-project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and shall make available, promptly as needed,
all funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out each sub-project, the
Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, on terms and conditions, including terms of
reference, agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Planning Commission of the Borrower shall be responsible for
ensuring effective coordination among the ministries and agencies of the Borrower
concerned in the implementation of the Project.


﻿6
(c)   For each sub-project the Borrower shall establish arrangements and
procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, for selecting services,
equipment and supplies and directing their use for such sub-project, supervising
and directing the work of the consultants employed therefor, recommending
modifications of the consultants' terms of reference or other terms and conditions
of their employment, and reviewing the reports and recommendations of such
consultants.
(d)   The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to facilitate the work
of the consultants in the performance of their services for the Project and make
available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(e)   The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the tenns and conditions
of employment of the consultants employed for any sub-project, or grant any
material extension of time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications
thereof, or agree to substitution of personnel of such consultants, without prior
agreement between the Borrower and the Association. The Borrower shall not
suspend payments under or terminate any contract with such consultants without
prior consultation with the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the consultants employed for
the Project promptly to furnish to the Association copies of the documents prepared
by them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, in such number as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views with respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recommendations
and other conclusions contained in the documents referred to in the foregoing
paragraph (a).
(c)   The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintain records adequate
to show the use of the proceeds of the Credit, and to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof); shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect any records and documents relevant to the Project, including records
and documents which the consultants employed by the Borrower shall be required
to keep for the purposes of the Project; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 6.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the use of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the sub-projects
and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower and of any agency of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project and the sub-projects.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purpose of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 6.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
ARTICLE VII
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 7.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 7.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 7.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VIII
Remedies of the Association
Section 8.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE IX
Termination
Section 9.01. The date September 28, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿9
ARTICLE X
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 10.01. The Secretary of the Planning Commission of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 10.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Plannin, Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / A. R. Choudhury
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


