CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1168 MAS
Loan Agreement
(Third DBM Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
DATED OCTOBER 23, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1168 MAS
Loan Agreement
(Third DBM Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
DATED OCTOBER 23, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and Development Bank of Mauritius (hereinafter called the Borrower), a corporate
bank established and operating under the laws of Mauritius.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
Generul Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they wLre fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b)
of this Agreement.
(b)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan in an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment.
(d)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.


﻿4
(e)   "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Guarantor.
(g)   "Act" means the Development Bank of Mauritius Act of 1972 of the
Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investments
policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower on October 27, 1971, as amended
to the date of this Agreement.
(i)   "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower or any outstanding credit agreement between
the International Development Association and the Borrower dated before the date
of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan or credit provided for therein.
(j)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower
or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(k)   "Government Loans" means loans made by the Guarantor to the
Borrower from time to time for the purpose of financing the operations of the
Borrower and subordinated to all other debt for the purpose of liquidation.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the amount of
the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account:
(i)        for amounts expended (or if the Bank shall so agree, for
expenditures required to be made) by the Borrower in a foreign
currency under a sub-loan or investment for goods procured,
or services supplied from, outside Mauritius;


﻿5
(ii)       in Rupees on account of seventy-five per cent (75%) of the
invoiced price for goods previously imported into Mauritius
throtigh normal trade channels;
(iii)      in Rupees on account of fifty per cent (50%) of the invoiced
price for goods produced in the territory of the Borrower from
materials previously imported into Mauritius, provided that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Mauritius of not more than 50% of the ex-factory price of such
goods; and
(iv)       in Rupees forty-five per cent (45%) of the cost of construction
of industrial buildings and hotels, to finance the reasonable
foreign currency cost of such goods or services in respect of
which the withdrawal is requested, provided, however, that no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment
unless (a) the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved
by the Bank; or (b) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan
for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of (i) $400,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any
Prior Loan for such Investment Project or (ii) $2,000,000 equivalent, when added
to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time
to time as determined by the Bank.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, or in respect
of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before April 1, 1975
or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and information required
by Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect
of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.03(b).
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan)
or an investment to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank


﻿6
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the
Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1979.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1 %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank
to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of
repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which have been approved or
authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of
the General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section


﻿7
2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule
1 shall include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Bank in respect of each investment shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree (i) shall not extend beyond twenty years for investments and for Investment
Projects for tourism, and fifteen years for other Investment Projects, from the
date of approval by the Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of
a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c)   The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by the Borrower in respect of the
repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
0             Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower,
the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08(a)
of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b)   Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities
of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid
on account of such investment.
(c)   Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions shall not apply
to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿8
ARTICLE 1H
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
financing such productive facilities and resources in Mauritius as will contribute
to the economic and social development of the country. The Project consists in
the financing of specific development projects through loans to and investments
in private enterprises in Mauritius, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of
the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Act and Statement of
Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that
it shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require
that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice;
and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely


﻿9
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and
the sub-loans and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations under
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal
of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its agencies or others for relending, investment
or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any
material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any subsidiary, the
Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish


﻿10
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than three months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt, except as otherwise
currently reported or disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or any subsidiary
as security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created oi any assets of the
Borrower or of any subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section
4.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall
be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which, in the judgment
of the Bank, would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower


﻿11
and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than four
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d)   "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of the Borrower and subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt
owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower
or to any other subsidiary, and (ii) the amounts of junior debt referred to in
paragraph (e)(ii) of this Section.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
of the Borrower and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary
in the Borrower or any other subsidiary, and (ii) such amounts of the Government
Loans as shall be repayable after the latest of the dates of all outstanding maturities
of the sub-loans, of the schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of the
investments and of any sub-loans or investments made by the Borrower out of
the proceeds of any Prior Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Rupees) used in its
lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
0


﻿12
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Act which will materially and
adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(c)   a material change shall have been made in the Statement of Policy
without the Bank's consent;
(d)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of the Borrower; and
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
situation or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and


﻿13
(b)  the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.0 1. The date January 22, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.0 1. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Development Bank of Mauritius
P. 0. Box 157
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:
DEVBANK
Mauritius


﻿14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
By /s / C. Jesseramsing
Authorized Representative


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)"
June 15, 1982                                             85,000
December 15, 1982                                         85,000
June 15, 1983                                             90,000
December 15, 1983                                         95,000
June 15, 1984                                             95,000
December 15, 1984                                         100000
June 15, 1985                                            105,000
December 15, 1985                                         110,000
June 15, 1986                                             115,000
December 15, 1986                                         120,000
June 15, 1987                                             125,000
December 15, 1987                                         130,000
June 15, 1988                                             135,000
December 15, 1988                                         140,000
June 15, 1989                                             150,000
December 15, 1989                                         155,000
June 15, 1990                                             160,000
December 15, 1990                                         165,000
*      June 15, 1991                                             175,000
December 15, 1991                                         180,0
June 15, 1992                                             190,000
December 15, 1992                                        200,000
June 15, 1993                                            205,0
December 15, 1993                                        215,000
June 15, 1994                                            225,000
December 15, 1994                                        235,000
June 15, 1995                                            245,000
December 15, 1995                                        255,000
June 15, 1996                                            265,000
December 15, 1996                                        275,0
June 15, 1997                                            290,000
December 15, 1997                                        300,000
June 15, 1998                                            315,000
December 15, 1998                                        325,000
June 15, 1999                                            340,000
December 15, 1999                                        355,000
June 15, 2000                                            370;000
December 15, 2000                                        380,000
  The Amortization  Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿16
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                             1%
before maturity
More than three years but                         2-1/4%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                           4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    5-1/2%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                       7-1/4%
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity
More than twenty-one years but                        8%
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity
More than twenty-three years                      8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(2)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall
have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with
respect to in amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


