OFFICIAL
iAJ        LOAN NUMBER 1885 TUN
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Third Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
Dated                                , .1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1885 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated '2, 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECO TRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE (hereinafter
called the Borrower), a bank established and operating under the
the laws of the Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the
Guarantor).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS (B) by an Agreement of even date herewith between
the Guarantor and the Bank (hereinafer called the Guarantee
Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower and to undertake certain other obligations in
respect of the Project pursuant to the terms and conditions set
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Tunisian Dinars" and the letter "D" mean the currency
of the Guarantor;


﻿-2-
(b) "BNT Statutes" mean the statutes of the Borrower as the
same may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Statement of Policy" means the statement on lending,
investment and financial policy adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Borrower on March 8, 1971, as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(d) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the issued voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or
effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more
Subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of
its subsidiaries;
(e) "UCPA" means Unit6 Coop6rative de Production Agricole,
a cooperative unit whose members produce agricultural products on
state-owned land;
(f) "Service Cooperative" means a cooperative unit providing
its members with farming and marketing services, and other
facilities;
.(g) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a sub-borrower in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be partially financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan;
(h) "Sub-borrower" means an eligible beneficiary of a
Sub-loan pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
which may be either: a UCPA, a Service Cooperative, an agroindus-
trial enterprise or entrepreneur, or a farmer;
(i) "Investment Project" means a project to be carried out
by a Sub-borrower and to be financed, in part, by means of a
Sub-loan;
(j) "Technical Division" means the division within the
Borrower's Agricultural Credit Department, at the Borrower's
headquarters in Tunis which is responsible for the execution
and supervision of the technical work related to the Borrower's
-agricultural credit operations;
, (k) "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Guaran-
tor;


﻿-3-
(1) "CRDAs" mean the Commissariats Rggionaux du Dive-
loppement Agricole, the regional agricultural development commis-
sions within MOA;
(m) "ACUs" mean the Agricultural Credit Units to be estab-
lished within the Arrondissement de l'Assistance a la Petite et
Moyenne Exploitation of each CRDA under Part F.2 of the Project;
(n) "Study Group" means the consultative group to be estab-
lished under Part F.1 of the Project;
(o) "Field Agencies" mean the existing branch offices of,
and all other branch offices which may be established by, the
Borrower throughout Tunisia and whose responsibilities include
agricultural activities, and "Field Staff" means the staff em-
ployed by such Field Agencies; and
(p) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement No.
1340-TUN dated December 17, 1976, entered into between the Bank
and the Borrower for the Second Agricultural Credit Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section. 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-4-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate technical, agricultural, banking, administrative and finan-
cial practices.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) make the Sub-loans under Parts A through E of the
Project in accordance with the policies and proce-
dures set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(ii) carry out Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project in
conjunction with the Guarantor and provide the
Guarantor with all such assistance and information
as may be required to enable the Guarantor to
efficiently carry out its obligations set forth
in Sections 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 of the Guarantee
Agreement; and
(iii) enter into an agreement with the Guarantor approved
by the Bank, specifying the mutual obligations of
the Guarantor and the Borrower with respect to the
Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall use the amounts made
available by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.09 (a) of the
Guarantee Agreement to make grants to Sub-borrowers under Parts A,
B and C of the Project (respectively, individual small and medium
farmers and groupings thereof in UCPA's and Service Cooperatives)
amounts as shall represent for each Category of Investment Project
the percentage of its estimated total cost specified in paragraph
B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall use the amounts made available by the
Guarantor under Section 3.09 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement to
finance long-term Investment Projects under Parts A, B and C of
the Project; and
(c) the Borrower shall use the amounts made available under
terms and conditions set forth in the agreement referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, to finance long-term
Investment Projects under Part D of the Project.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Part F.3 of the Project
and in order to increase the efficiency of its agricultural
lending operations, the Borrower shall expand the functions and
strengthen the staff of its Technical Division; to that end, the
Borrower shall:
(a) assume, not later than June 30, 1981, and thereafter
maintain, within its Technical Division the following responsibi-
lities:
(i) carrying out of special feasibility studies rela-
ting to the agricultural sector and determination
of appropriate appraisal procedures and criteria;
(ii) carrying out certain on-farm appraisals, and
reviewing appraisal reports respectively prepared
by Field Staff and by ACU staff and ensuring
quality and continuity of supervision work carried
out by said Field Staff and ACU staff; and
(iii) monitoring the progress and assessing the benefits
of Investment Projects; and
(b) appoint, not later than June 30, 1981, and thereafter
employ at all times in its Technical Division at least four agri-
culturalists or agricultural credit specialists, one of which


﻿-6-
shall be an agro-industrial engineer, and a total of not less than
seven qualified agricultural technicians.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(a) not later than January 31, 1981, appoint two representa-
tives to work as members of the Study Group established under Part
F.1 of the Project;
(b) take all such measures within its powers to cause the
Study Group to submit, not later than June 30, 1981, to the
Guarantor and to the Bank, for their respective review and com-
ment, a report recommending the measures required to be taken by
MOA and by the Borrower to execute Parts F.2 and F.3, respec-
tively, of the Project; and
(c) taking into account the recommendations of the Study
Group and the Guarantor's and the Bank's comments thereon:
(A) carry out Part F.3 (i) of the Project so as to complete the
staffing and training of not less than 20 Field Agencies (includ-
ing those l3cated in the provinces of Le Kef, Siliana, Kairouan
and Nabeul) not later than December 31, 1981, and of the remaining
Field Agencies not later than December 31, 1982; and (B) take all
such measures within its powers to start not later than Octo-
ber 31, 1981, and complete not later than December 31, 1982, the
training of ACU staff under Part F.2 (iii) of the Project in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 3.04 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Parts F.2 (iii) and F.3 of
the Project and except as the Guarantor and the Bank may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take all such measures as shall be
required to undertake and complete not later than December 31,
1982, and thereafter maintain, the organization and expansion of
activities of Field Agencies through:
(a) the employment of at least one qualified agricultural
technician in each Field Agency;
(b) the extension of scope of authority and responsibility,
of any Field Agency, to: (i) carry out on-farm appraisals related
to Part D of the Project; (ii) participate in the approval of
Sub-loans not exceeding D3,000 applied for under Part A of the
Project by gradually decentralizing the Borrower's approval


﻿-7-
procedures for said Sub-loans; (iii) supervise the implementation
of all Investment projects, and (iv) collect all principal and
interest payments due to the Borrower under all its sub-loans;
and
(c) the establishment of a continuing dialogue, satisfactory
to the Bank, between the ACU and Field Agency or Field Agencies
established within a same province of the Guarantor.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall make any Sub-loan under
Parts A through E of the Project on terms whereby the Borrower
shall obtain, by written contract with the Sub-borrower or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower, including
in the case of any such Sub-loan, the right of the Borrower to:
(i) require the Sub-borrower to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to establish
and maintain records adequate to monitor the
progress of each such Investment Project (including
the costs thereof);
(ii) require that:
(A) all goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Sub-loans be purchased
through regular commercial or other local
channels, at a reasonable price, account
being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts there-
for, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and competence of the parties ren-
dering them; and
(B) goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Sub-loans be used exclusively
in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction


﻿-8-
included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Sub-borrowers shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insur-
ance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice;
and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity there-
under to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Sub-borrower to replace or repair
such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Guarantor, the
Bank and the Borrower shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the
Sub-borrower; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower
to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon
failure to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to:
(i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Bor-
rower;
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement;
and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate short-
term financing is available to Sub-borrowers as required for the
carrying out of their respective Investment Projects, including
for the rental of farm machinery required for Investment Projects
under Parts A through D of the Project and for working capital
required for Investment Projects under Part E of the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.08. For the purposes of monitoring, on a regular
basis, the benefits derived by Sub-borrowers from Sub-loans, the
Borrower undertakes to operate and continue to operate the invest-
ment monitoring system established under Section 3.05 of the Prior
Loan Agreement and furnish to the Bank every 6 months all informa-
tion concerning the benefits derived by Sub-borrowers from Sub-
loans, together with all information concerning the operation of
said investment monitoring system and all such other information
as the Bank may reasonably request in relation thereto.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
at quarterly intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Sub-borrowers, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the Closing Date, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of Part F of the Project and
of'the Investment Projects under Parts A through E of the Project,
their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from them,
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all time manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry out its operations, all under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management and staff and in accordance
with the BNT Statutes and the Statement of Policy.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including without limitation to the foregoing, separate
accounts reflecting all expenditures under Parts A and D of the
Project on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's accre-
dited representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
(including the separate accounts referred to in Section 5.01 (a)
of this Agreement) and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the date of
approval of the Borrower's financial statements for such fiscal
year by its shareholders, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
5.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31,
1981, or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may other-
wise agree, establish and thereafter apply an accounting system
satisfactory to the Bank providing a detailed break-down of the
Borrower's costs and income relating to its agricultural (includ-
ing fisheries) lending operations; and (ii) without limitation
to the provisions set forth in paragraph (i) of this section,
promptly upon receipt of the audit report prepared pursuant to
Section 5.02 (a) (ii) (B) of this Agreement, review all the
recommendations set forth in such audit report and thereafter
implement all appropriate measures relating to the Borrower's
accounts and financial statements, as shall have been recommended
in said audit report.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower (other than the Loan) which, in the judgment of the Bank,
would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its finan-
cial obligations.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Tunisian Dinars) used in its operations.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under agreements under which funds have been lent or other-
wise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of any such agreement.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
subscriptions and agreements to subscribe to its capital shares so
as to ensure receipt of the capital funds available to it promptly
as needed for its operations.
Section 5.08. (a) The Borrower. shall, in respect of each
Sub-loan, maintain a separate set of accounts to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices: (i) the nature of the funds made available to the
Borrower by the Guarantor for the purposes of enabling the Bor-
rower to make each such Sub-loan; (ii) the amount of disburse-
ments under each such Sub-loan; (iii) the amounts of principal,
interest and other charges due in respect of each such Sub-loan;
and (iv) the amounts of principal, interest and other charges
overdue and payable to the Borrower for two years on account of
any Sub-loan.
(b) The Borrower shall annually: (i) notify the Guarantor
and the Bank of the amount of principal, interest and other
charges overdue and payable to the Borrower for two years on
account of Sub-loans; and (ii) charge the Guarantor for such
amounts as provided in Section 3.08 (c) of the Guarantee Agree-
ment.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1982, and anually thereafter, review its income (interest,
commissions and other income) and its costs (administrative,
financial and other costs) in connection with its agricultural
lending operations in order to determine whether they are adequate
to ensure the economic and financial viability of its agricultural
lending program.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 13 -
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b) the BNT Statutes shall have been amended or repealed so
as to materially and adversely affect the operations or financial
condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change which would materially and adversely affect the
objectives, financial condition or operations of the Borrower,
shall have been made in the Statement of Policy without the Bank's
consent; and
(d) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's operations or financial
situation or the carrying out .of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness .of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the agreement between the Guarantor and the Borrower,
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement shall have
been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Guarantor and of
the Borrower, respectively, and duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental and corporate action.


﻿- 14 -
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the agreement referred to
in Section 7.01 of this Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Guarantor and the Borrower, respectively, and
executed and delivered on behalf of the Guarantor and the Bor-
rower, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Guarantor and
the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date  ,6.111,7FO , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banque Nationale de Tunisie
19 Avenue de Paris
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANGAGRIC                          366
Tunis


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under              5,300,000    )
Part A of the Project                    )
(2) Sub-loans Vnder Part         7,600,000    )    75% of amounts
B of the Project                         )    disbursed by
)    the Borrower
(3) Sub-loans under Part         2,000,000    )    under such
C of the Project                         )    Sub-loans
(4) Sub-loans under Part        11,700,000    )
D of the Project                         )
(5) Sub-loans under Part         3,400,000    )
E of the Project                          )
TOTAL            30,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(b) from Categories (1) and (4) in respect of payments made
by the Borrower to finance any Sub-loan to small or medium farmers
and to commercial farmers unless the Borrower shall have forwarded
to the Bank a statement, certified by the Borrower, detailing the
expenditures incurred by the Sub-borrower for which the withdrawal
application is being made;
(c) from Categories (2) and (3).in respect of payments made
by the Borrower to finance any Sub-loan of more than D 50,000, to
UCPA or to a Service Cooperative, unless such Sub-loan shall have
been approved by the Bank; and
(d) from Category (5) in respect of payments made by the
Borrower to finance any Sub-loan of more than D 150,000 for
agroindustrial production, unless such Sub-loan shall have been
approved by the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of.the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5. If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of a
Sub-loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement, no Sub-loan disbursement
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of the Borrower's three-year
(1981-1983) medium- and long-term lending program for the agricul-
tural sector, consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Sub-loans to Small and Medium Farmers
Sub-loans to a total of about 2,200 small and medium farmers
for farm development and agricultural production through the
financing of inter alia: (i) livestock, draft animals and stables;
(ii) irrigation works and equipment; (iii) miscellaneous farm
equipment; (iv) farm machinery; and (v) development of forage
and establishment of fruit tree plantations.
Part B:   Sub-loans to Production Cooperatives
Sub-loans to a total of about 170 Production Cooperatives
for farm development and agricultural production through the
financing of inter alia: (i) livestock and stables; (ii) irriga-
tion works and equipment; (iii) farm machinery and transportation
equipment and (iv) development of forage and establishment of
fruit tree plantations.
Part C:   Sub-loans to Service Cooperatives
Sub-loans to a total of about 25 Service Cooperatives to
increase the productive capacity of their respective members
and. to ensure better marketing services for their products by
making available to them farm machinery and transportation equip-
ment, storage buildings, and packaging facilities.
Part D:   Sub-loans to Commercial Farmers
Sub-loans to a total of about 900 commercial farmers for
farm development and agricultural production through the financing
of inter alia: (i) livestock and stables; (ii) irrigation works
and equipment; (iii) agricultural equipment; (iv) farm machinery
and transportation equipment; (v) land improvement; and (vi)
development of forage and establishment of fruit tree plantations.
Part E:   Sub-loans for Agroindustrial Production
Sub-loans to a total of about 20 Sub-borrowers for the
processing and marketing of agricultural produce and the expansion


﻿- 19 -
and diversification of agroindustrial production through the
financing of feasibility studies, civil works and equipment for
the construction, installation and operation of inter alia: (i)
processing and refrigerating facilities for agricultural produce
(including fruit, vegetables, meat and poultry); and (ii) milk
collection and pasteurization.
Part F:   Training, Staffing and Agricultural Credit Extension
Programs
1.   Establishment of a Study Group consisting of representatives
of the Guarantor and of the Borrower to recommend, coordinate and
monitor measures required under Parts F.2 and F.3 of the Project
for the purposes of implementing a program to expand, decentralize
and train the agricultural credit extension staff of MOA and of
the Borrower.
2.   Execution of an agricultural credit extension program to
expand and support the agricultural operations of CRDAs, through
inter alia: (i) the establishment by the Guarantor of a total of
about 17 ACUs; (ii) the implementation by the Guarantor of
a staffing program for each ACU; (iii) the execution by the
Guarantor and by the Borrower of a training program for ACU
staff; and (iv) the provision of one four-wheel drive vehicle and
other light vehicles for each ACU in accordance with provisions
set forth in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) (C) of the Guarantee Agreement.
3.   Execution of an agricultural credit extension program by the
Borrower, including inter alia: (i) the execution of a staffing
and training program for its Field Agencies; (ii) the provision of
vehicles for the managers and agricultural technical staff of
Field Agencies; and (iii) the reorganization and expansion of the
Borrower's Agricultural Credit Department at its headquarters in
Tunis.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
ATi rtization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1985
through   September 1, 1994                1,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     3.55%
More than six years but not
more than ten years
before maturity                              5.90%
More than ten years but not
more than twelve years
before maturity                              7.05%
More than twelve years
before maturity                              8.25%


﻿- 22 -
Schedule 4
Lending Policies and Procedures
A.   Eligibility for Sub-loans under Parts A, D
and E of the Project
Sub-loans under Parts A and D of the Project shall be made
to Sub-borrowers on the basis of, inter alia: (i) nature of the
investment; (ii) cropping pattern; and (iii) annual income; pro-
vided however that:
(a) Sub-loans under Part A of the Project shall only be made
to Sub-borrowers whose income is mainly generated by their agri-
cultural activities; and
(b) Sub-loans under Part A of the Project shall only be
made to finance machinery under Part A (iv) of the Project if the
applicant can justify, to the satisfaction of the Borrower, full
utilization of such machinery.
(c) Sub-loans under Part E of the Project shall only be made
if appraisal by the Borrower has confirmed: (i) the availability
to the Sub-borrower of the agricultural raw materials and inputs
required for the viability of the Investment Project; (ii) the
marketability of the product or products to be produced under the
Investment Project; (iii) the technical feasibility of the Invest-
ment Project; (iv) the financial viability of the Investment
Project; and (v) the repayment ability of the Sub-borrower.


﻿- 23 -
B.          Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans under the Project
1.          Sub-loans under Parts A                                        through E                 of the Project shall
be subject to the following respective terms and conditions:
Lending Policies and Procedures
GUARANTOR                  SuB-aOwn
SUB-LOAN /                 SUBSIDY                 OtN CONTRIBUTIONS                      Term (including grace)
L                    Not more than (M)L         Not less than (W)L        Interest        Years
individual tloarati5       Individual Cooperative     Individual Cooperative    Not less (2)    Not more
A. Small and Medium Farmers and
and Production Cooperatives (Parts
A and B of the Project)
Type of Investment Project:
1. Shallow wells. pump sets
and irrigation equipment          65          65             15          15              20         20             6              7 (2)
2. Tube wells, vertical pump sets
and irrigation equipment          50          50              40          40             10         10             6             20 (2)
3. Well improvement                  60          60              20          20             20         20              6            10 (2)
4. Forage, cactus and other          50          50             30          30              20         20              6 (0)*       5    (1)
pasture improvement
5. Pasture improvement:
medicago                          30          30             65          65               5          5             6              5 (1)
6. Cattle, sheep, draft animals      65          65              15         25              20         10             6          3 -5.
7, Buildings improvement and         65          65             15          25              20         10             6          5-15 (2)
equipment for liyestock
8. Poultry units and other           70          70             10          20              20         10             -
production of. small animals
9. Light agricultural implements
and equipment                     70          70             10          20              20         10             6          3-10 (2)
10. Farm machinery and implements      -          70               -          20              -         10              6          5-7 (1)
11. Tree crop establishment           60          60              20          30             20         10              6 (0)*   10-15 (5-8)
12. Greenhouses and similar           70          70              10          20             20         10             6          3-5
investments
C.  Packing    Stations,               -           65            -           20             -           15              6           To be agreed
Agricultural Machinery                                                                                                        on a case by
tn Tras     tP3      a                                                                                                       case basia
en  'rasport Equipment                                                                                                     cs    si
(Pert Cot the Project)
D. General Farm Development for
Comercial Farmers                   70           -               -           -             30           -             7
(Parte of the Project)
E. Agro-Industry Investments            70            -              -           -             30           -             8
(Part E of the Project)
During grace period
L Percentage of total cost
L-2 Sub-loans function of Guarantor subsidy and Sub-borrower own contributions


﻿- 24 -
2.   For the purpose of Paragraph B.1 of this Schedule, it is
hereby specified and understood that a "Sub-loan" consists of
funds accruing to the Borrower: (i) partly from the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in Section 1.02 (g) of this Agreement;
(ii) partly from the Borrower's own resources; and (iii) partly,
as the case may be, from the Guarantor's budgetary funds.
C.   Risk
The Borrower shall bear the full risk of default on Sub-loans
under Parts D and E of the Project and at least 40% of the risk
of default on Sub-loans under Parts A, B and C of the Project.
D.   Security Arrangements
A certificat de possession shall be accepted as adequate
title for purposes of creating a lien on the land, subject of such
certificat, as security for the repayment of a Sub-loan.
For purposes of this paragraph "certificat de possession"
means the certificate described in Law No. 74-53 of the Guarantor
dated June 10, 1974.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day ofol"6wer, 1980.
FOR SECRETARY


