Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20284-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$349 MILLION
AND A
GEF GRANT
IN TIE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.9 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND BEIJING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
May 26, 2000
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1 = Y 8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCIC      Beijing Comprehensive Investment Corporation
BDC       Beijing Drainage Company
BEPI      The (first) Beijing Environmental Project
BEMPS   Beijing Environmental Master Plan Studies, carried out under the first Beijing Environmental
Project
BEPB      Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau
BEPO      Beijing Environmental Projects Office
BGGC      Beijing Gas Group Corporation
BMG       Beijing Municipal Government
BPC       Beijing Planning Commission
CFB       Coal-fired Boiler or Burner
DG        District Government
EA        Environmental Assessment
EDSS      Environmental Decision Support System
FMS       Financial Management System
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GHG       Greenhouse Gas
HECC      Heating Energy Conservation Center (reporting to RHAO)
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
M         Million
2
m         Square Meter
m         Cubic Meter
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGB       Natural Gas Boiler
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
RHAO    Residential Heating Administration Office
SJET      Shihuan Jietian Energy Technology Development Company, Ltd.
tph       Tons per Hour, of water boiled, an imprecise but common boiler capacity designation
approximately equivalent to 625 kilowatts
WWTP    Wastewater Treatment Plant
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:    Keshav Varma
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Songsu Choi



CHINA
SECOND BEIJING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         1 8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          22
2. Financial                                                                          23
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      25
5. Social                                                                             26
6. Environment                                                                        27
7. Participatory Approach                                                             27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     29
2. Critical risks                                                                     30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     31



G. Main Loan and Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              30
2. Other                                                                                31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            33
Annex 2: Project Description                                                               35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                     62
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 68
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         79
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       91
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     92
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    94
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              99
Annex 11: Incremental Cost Analysis of Carbon Abatement                                   101
Annex 12: Enviromental Assessment Summary                                                 106
Annex 13: Financial Management System Assessment Summary                                  112
MAP(S)
IBRD 30782 Second Beijing Environment Project



CHNA
Second Beijing Environment Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Urban Development Sector Unit
Date: May 26, 2000                                Team Leader: Songsu Choi
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang             Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Varma
Project ID: P042109                               Sector(s): US - Urban Environment, VP - Pollution Control
/ Waste Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment; Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 Loan         C Credit        1 Grant         D Guarantee     E Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 349 loan + 25 GEF grant
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing:Plan:    Source                                   LOCAl          ofe[gn
GOVERNMENT                                                   157.00           0.00        157.00
IBRD                                                           0.00         349.00        349.00
GOVERNMENT OF CHINA                                          154.00          32.00         186.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    0.00          25.00         25.00
BENEFICIARIES                                                355.50           0.00        355.50
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                             182.50           0.00        182.50
Total:                                                       849.00         406.00       1255.00
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: BEIJING MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
World Bank and Asian Development Bank Loan Beijing Environment Project Office
Address: Ding 2, Southern Street,
Fuxingmen, Xicheng District
Beijing, 100031
P.R. China
Contact Person: Guo Junqing
Tel: (86-10) 66411754               Fax: (86-10) 66411638               Email: bepo@public.bta.net.cn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY; ;;0 1  0122002 ,2003                        20048     2005   i!)6 
Annual    48.7          75.2        90.5        67.8        47.9        32.9        11.0
Cumulative    48.7        123.9        214.4      282.2       330.1        363.0      374.0
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/15/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD Fm R-ev. Mh. XX



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project aims at a visible and sustained alleviation of air and water pollution in
Beijing by helping to:
(a)    convert scattered coal-fired boilers to natural gas boilers;
(b)    promote energy conservation in heating systems;
(c)    construct key wastewater trunk interceptors and associated treatment facilities; and
(d)    strengthen environmental management institutions of Beijing.
The GEF-financed components support activities (a) and (b) above, by helping to establish viable
models and markets of natural gas usage and heating energy conservation. In addition to the direct and
significant reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, these will make an effective demonstration of
GHG reduction measures for China as a whole and thus help to decrease the risk of global climate change
significantly.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Unit          1997            2005       Difference
(Baseline)      (Target)
Beijing population exposed to air quality  people         5,100,000          20,000     - 99.6%
worse than Class III over 60 days a year*
Carbon Emission from Heating in Beijing*  ton/year        4,370,000        2,560,000    - 41.5%
COD discharged to Liangshui River        tons/year           72,000          32,000     - 55.5%
Net internal cash flow of Beijing Drainage  % of current       24%            132%       +108%
Company                                   expenses
* These targets assume the achievement of the overall target for the city-wide program of converting scattered
coal-fired boilers to cleaner fuels, for which the project provides major inputs for technical and market
development as well as about 20% of physical investment.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107                   Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
Environmental protection is one of five CAS themes for China, along with macroeconomic growth
and stability, infrastructure development, human development, and rural development. Among operations
to assist in environmental protection, urban wastewater management has traditionally been a main focus of
Bank operations. This project is the first to direct major attention to urban air pollution issues in China.
China ratified the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change on January 5, 1993.
Fuel conversion from coal to natural gas is an element of China's global environmental strategy. The
project is consistent with the GEF Operational Program #5 for promoting the removal of barriers to energy
efficiency and energy conservation.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    Environmental Policy of China. The recent rapid growth of industries and cities of China has
added heavy pressures on its environment which had already suffered significant degradation during the
earlier industrialization drives. To stop and reverse the degradation, the Government of China has pursued
active environmental policies, requiring environmental assessment and licensing for new investment
projects, pollution levies, extensive environmental monitoring, and major national environmental
performance targets. These policies are implemented in a decentralized fashion through a network of
Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs) at all levels of government, overseen by the State Environmental
Protection Agency (SEPA). National standards, targets, and regulations usually specify only the broad
framework and minimum requirements, and local EPBs can set more stringent local standards and
implement various programs to achieve their own environmental plans as long as they are consistent with
higher-level regulations.
2.2    The active policies, combined with rapid industrial renovations with cleaner technologies, have
yielded substantial environmental benefits over the last decade. Pollution discharge per industrial output
value has declined rapidly in most localities, and many cities have reduced the concentrations of total
suspended particles (TSP) in the ambient air, and toxic metals in wastewater. In general, however,
industrial production and urban waste generation are increasing at such a rate that aggregate pollution is
still at unhealthy levels and even rising. High levels of air pollution, especially with sulfur dioxide (S02),
remain a major issue in most cities due to China's heavy reliance on low-quality coal. Domestic sewage and
automobile emissions are growing as serious urban pollution issues.
Air Pollution in Beiiing
2.3    Beijing is a preeminent showcase of these old and new environmental issues, aggravated by its
semi-arid climate and highlighted by its status as the national capital. Arguably the most critical
environmental issue in Beijing is air pollution. Table 1 shows that average ambient concentrations of
particulates and nitrates exceed the daily healthy limit for residential areas (Chinese standard Class II,
similar to WHO standards) year-round. During the heating season, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides
grow to levels posing acute health risks, beyond limits allowed even for industrial areas (Class III). About
5.3 million Beijing residents are estimated to be exposed to more than 150 micrograms of sulfur dioxide for
more than 60 days a year. Although another critical pollutant, ultrafine particles (PM- 10), are not yet
systematically measured, their concentration is expected to show a similar pattem.
Table 1. Air Quality in Beiiing. 1998
Maximum 24 hour concentration in micrograms/mi
Maximum for Standard            Beijing Actual
Pollutant            Class II    Class III   Heating Season   Other Times
Suspended particulates (TSP)    300          500           431            348
Sulfur Dioxide (S02)            150          250           252            42
Nitrogen oxides (NOx)           100          150           201            122
Carbon Monoxide (CO)            4000        6000          4400           2600
Note: Ultrafme particle (PM-10) concentration was incorporated into the national standards in 1996 but
are not yet systematically measured.
Heating season in Beijing runs November through March.
Source:Beijing Municipal Enviromnental Research Institute, Updated Beijing Environmental Master
Plan Studies Database, 1999
-3-



2.4    The main source of pollution is coal, which remains the city's dominant (about 75%) source of
energy. Especially important is coal-fired heating that contributes most of sulfur dioxides and a major
share of other pollutants. Industrial boilers and power plants bum about half of all coal used in Beijing
year-round, but they are responsible for only about 15% of ambient pollution of sulfur dioxide and
particulates during the heating season, thanks to pollution control equipment. "Scattered" heating boilers -
those with capacity of less than 20 tons of steam per hour (capable of heating up to 160,000 m' of floor
space) and chimneys lower than 35 meters - are responsible for about 70% of these pollutants and even
smaller stoves, tea and bath boilers contribute another 10%. Next in importance are emissions from the
increasing vehicle population, which increased from about 0.5 million in 1991 to 1.36 million in 1998 and
has increased the year-round ambient nitrogen oxides by about one-third.
2.5    Beijing's air quality improvement plan, typical for Chinese cities, traditionally emphasized large
investment projects to control pollution from industries and coal burning. Industries were given supports to
install less-polluting production systems or end-of-pipe pollution treatment. To reduce pollution from
scattered boilers, coal gas and district heating systems have been built. The Beijing Environmental Project,
BEP I (Ln. 3415, Cr. 2312-CHA) implemented from 1992 to 1999 with Bank Group support, accordingly
devoted most of the financing to industrial pollution reduction and district heating. The policy environment
had shifted, however, as rapid economic growth and liberalization changed the valuation between the
environment and production and between the government and the market. In addition, statistics such as
those above have illuminated the limitations of point source control strategies. The primary focus of
attention of the Beijing Municipal Government (BMG) for air pollution control has, therefore, shifted
toward fuel conversion and strengthening of regulatory and pricing measures against pollution. BMG has
invested heavily in natural gas supply infrastructure, strengthened emissions control, and closed an
increasing number of polluting industries.
2.6   In October 1998, BMG started a major 'clean air' program with State Council support, partly
spurred by policy deliberation during preparation of this project. The major part of the program is to
convert all small scattered coal boilers and burners within the urban area to cleaner fuel or into larger
district heating boilers by 2003. A sulfur tax has been imposed and the use of low-sulfur coal is mandated.
Another main part of the program strengthens controls of vehicle emissions, including the mandatory use of
unleaded gasoline and catalytic converters in gasoline-powered light vehicles. Other measures include
strengthened control of construction dust and programs to expand vegetation.
Water Pollution in Beijing
2.7    Due to the scarcity of water resources and heavy population pressure, water quality has
traditionally been another major environmental issue for Beijing. The earlier emphasis was primarily on
protection of upstream water, most of which is diverted for potable uses. On the other hand, less than
one-third of the wastewater is treated. As a result, the city's natural streams receive a large volume of
wastewater compared with little natural flows, and hence little capacity to dilute the pollutants.
Downstream flows of the urban streams thus are not suitable for even the least critical economic use such
as industrial cooling or irrigation. In addition, such pollution has degraded the city's groundwater sources,
which supply 40% of water for the city, and which can be used only for less critical purposes such as
industrial use. Since the main river, Haihe, which receives these streams has relatively small flows, these
heavily polluted discharges cannot be fully diluted, threatening the irrigation downstream. The central
government recently accorded one of the highest national priorities to reducing the critical pollution of the
Hai River.
-4 -



2.8   In view of these concerns BMG has recently begun a major expansion of wastewater and solid
waste management capacities with bilateral financing. On-going and planned works are expected to almost
quadruple the current sewage treatment capacity of about 560,000 m' per day. To put this expanded
sewerage system on a sustainable financial and institutional footing, BMG is taking measures to increase
tariffs and strengthen the institutional capacity and autonomy of the Beijing Drainage Company (BDC)
established under BEP I.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Air Pollution
3.1    BMG's new clean air program includes strong measures against the two main air pollution sources:
scattered coal burning and vehicle emission. Vehicle emission will be controlled mostly with regulatory
measures of BMG. The project would assist BMG for the other main part of the clean air program by
supporting the conversion of coal-fired heating boilers to natural gas and by reducing the coal use in the
remaining ones. The main traditional means of reducing pollution from coal have been smokestack controls
and the consolidation of scattered coal boilers into large district heating boilers. While these will continue,
their potential is limited. Most of the cost-effective measures to control point sources have already been
implemented, and the feasibility of district heating is constrained by difficulties in the consolidation process
and the availability and cost of large sites. Aside from the local and global environmental benefits, natural
gas boilers have higher fuel efficiency and save on labor and land, which make them also a financially
viable alternative to coal-fired ones of small or medium capacity. (See detailed analysis in Annex 4).
3.2   Fuel gas has been available in Beijing for some time, consisting mainly of coal-based town gas
which proved to be problematic for both financial and environmental reasons. Natural gas was available in
a small quantity (0.5 million m /day) enough for domestic cooking only. To expand the natural gas supply,
the Beijing Gas Group Corporation (BGGC) has invested about $470 million for a new natural gas pipeline
and $380 million for a distribution network in the city - the former in ajoint venture with the China
National Petroleum Corporation, and the latter partly financed by the Asia Development Bank (ADB). As
a result over 2 million mr/day of natural gas has been available in the city since 1998 but little of the
additional capacity is being utilized, thus idling the large investments. To facilitate the conversion, in early
1998 BMG designated about 20% of the urban area as "Coal-Free Zones" (CFZ) where no coal-burning
devices under 20 tph would be allowed after 1999. This program, reinforced with the new clean air
program, resulted in the conversion of 600 out of 1556 medium-sized scattered boilers (1-10 tph) by the
end of 1999. The clean air program and associated subsidies succeeded in converting most small stoves
and boilers (less than 1 tph) in the entire city. However, this still leaves over 8,000 scattered medium-sized
coal-fired heating boilers, which are responsible for about 63% of all sulfur dioxide and particulates during
the heating season. Most of these medium-sized boilers are operated by various entities to heat their own
office buildings and employee housing. Their conversion to natural gas would be the primary focus of the
project; the supplementary aim is to increase the efficiency of all heating systems, including the remaining
large coal boilers.
3.3    Barriers to Coal to Gas Conversion. The large infrastructure investments and strengthened
environmental regulations by BMG provide the first necessary conditions for conversion from coal to gas.
Being the first in China to attempt a massive fuel conversion, however, Beijing is facing barriers typical of
introducing any new product: small and uncertain market size and newness of technology. These deter the
suppliers from investing in production and distribution facilities, leading to high cost. On the demand side,
the high cost and high uncertainty of the product discourage purchases especially as it involves large
expenditures. In addition, various features of the economy in transition pose additional barriers, indicating
- 5 -



that the conversion would take even longer in China. When these are surmounted, natural gas heating will
have a sustainable competitive position in the urban space heating market, and replication in China will be
facilitated. Major barriers to conversion from coal to natural gas include the following:
(a) Small market and industry capacity. Until recently in China, natural gas was reserved mainly
for industrial processes. Almost all gas burners are imported, including the few heating boilers.
As a consequence, domestic manufacturing, assembly, distribution, installation, and services of
natural gas boilers and ancillary equipment are limited, inefficient, and costly.
(b) Underdeveloped technical models and capacity. An aspect of the underdeveloped technological
capacity is a lack of established technical practices to make the best use of natural gas. A review
of several installed gas boilers indicates excessive capital, operation and maintenance expenses
carried over from coal use practices. Also, most coal boilers are simply replaced one-to-one with
gas boilers, without taking advantage of improved fuel efficiency and possible savings of land and
transmission heat loss.
(c) Technical risk and information gap. Boiler conversion involves a major technological and
behavioral transition from manual operation of simple mechanical boilers using stored coal to fully
automated operation with invisible gas. Adequate knowledge of gas boilers is limited to only a
small number specialists. As a result there is a widespread, exaggerated perception of the cost,
risk, and technical complexities of natural gas heating. For example, many believe natural gas
boilers pose significant risks of explosion, and few recognize the advantages of natural gas.
(d) High operating costs. The price of natural gas is up to three times as high as the coal price, as the
latter does not reflect the full social cost of pollution. The imported parts and technical services
are scarce and expensive. As heating services are generally paid for not by end-users themselves
but by their employers, it is difficult to internalize the environmental benefits of gas boilers. The
operating efficiencies of gas boilers are not yet fully exploited due to insufficient technical models
and capacities.
(e) High capital costs and financing constraints. The current equipment and installation cost of gas
boilers is about one-third higher than coal-fired ones in Beijing, whereas the reverse is generally
true in developed markets. The gap is due partly to pollution control requirements for coal burning
in other countries and to the small market and technical capacity for natural gas boilers in China.
In the long-run, conversion can be financially justified with savings in operating costs and the gain
from converting the land now occupied by boiler houses and coal yards. Few boiler owners,
however, can access long-tenn financing from banks which are reluctant to lend for non-productive
investments, or cash in on land savings in the short term.
3.4    Some of the issues such as fuel pricing and environmental regulations are being corrected under the
new BMG regulations. Technical assistance, financed by the loan and grant under the proposed project,
would provide an input toward improving these issues. Others are symptoms typical of a new product
market lacking economies of scale and technological maturity. Without strong intervention, the barrier
removal and market growth will be slow and incremental. In other countries, similar conversion took
decades, usually with natural gas companies taking the lead to ease the barriers. In Beijing, numerous
entities were involved in gas delivery with partial mandates and weak accountability. These were combined
into a Beijing Gas Group Corporation (BGGC) in 1999 to improve efficiency and accountability, but still
in its establishment phase, it is not in a position to devote full attention to the new, uncertain venture of
-6 -



boiler conversion. BMG therefore entrusted the Beijing Comprehensive Investment Company (BCIC), a
diversified company involved in various industrial and commercial joint ventures, with the lead in bringing
about rapid boiler conversion. In tum, it has established Shihuan Jietian Energy Technology (SJET) as a
limited company in partnership with BGGC and the Yuanshan Energy Management Company. The latter
was established in 1996 with GEF and Bank support as a commercial venture to offer energy conservation
services to industrial customers. SJET will utilize the Bank loan of $165 million to ease financing barriers
for about one-third of the medium-sized boilers to be converted, and a GEF grant of $16.5 million to
remove technical and information barriers. The expected result is a rapid scaling-up of the market and a
significant reduction in the cost of gas boiler equipment and associated services - by about 30% in 6 years
- which will benefit all conversions including those not financed directly under the project, and further in
other cities of China.
3.5    Heating Energy Efficiency. BMG's new clean air program, including the massive fuel conversion,
increases the relative importance of heating energy conservation. For the environment, the remaining
coal-fired boilers and energy loss in the heat delivery systems represent a major remaining source of
pollution. In the medium-term, many of the larger district heating houses and some of the scattered boilers
in the city's periphery (outside the fourth Ring Road) will remain coal-fired. A survey of 457 district
heating boilers in Beijing shows that they need about 38 kg of coal to heat a square meter of floor space on
average, compared with the good practice standard of 26 kg/i  achieved even with some medium-sized
boilers. These inefficiencies are due to inefficiencies in both the boilers and heat delivery systems even in
these supposedly efficient systems. There is likely to be significant room for energy efficiency for all
heating systems including the ones switching to gas or oil. For heat suppliers and users, the high cost of
gas increases the incentive for conservation. The project would therefore include a GEF-supported
component to step up energy conservation in heating.
3.6    Barriers to Energy Conservation. Progress in energy conservation has been slow especially in
heating due mainly to the nature of the heating sector. In the cities of China heating has been generally
provided as a social necessity with little financial reward. Further, typical boiler houses are too small to
justify allocation of significant investment or highly trained manpower, although in aggregate the heating
sector is the largest consumer of energy. As a result, energy conservation in the heating sector faces the
following major barriers:
(a) Insufficient and scattered knowledge base. Because individual payoffs are small, there has been
relatively little systematic research to import or develop heating energy conservation technologies.
A few public agencies including the Ministry of Construction and BMG's Residential Heating
Administration Office (RHAO) have been conducting some relevant research and promotional
activities, but as these efforts are not part of their main mandate, they have been limited and
sporadic.
(b) Lack of financial and human resources. Typical heating boilers get little more financial and
human resources than needed for routine operation, rarely having high level technical resources and
investment funds to carry out modifications.
(c) Difficulty in identifying and evaluating conservation options. As a natural result of weakness in
both source and receiver of technical knowledge, there is insufficient readily available information
on the range and details of conservation options. When they are available in the form of technical
descriptions or actual examples, it is difficult to evaluate their technical and financial feasibility in
specific situations.
-7-



(d) Risk. Without systematic information, the general perception is that many of the energy
conservation measures will not, in practice, provide any significant financial benefits and instead
will waste the scarce capital resources available to the heating supply entities.
(e) End user motivation. Heat is generally paid for on the basis of area heated, and residential
heating charges are paid not by residents but by their employers. There is thus no incentive for the
end-user to conserve energy. In addition, the single-pipe supply system used in most buildings does
not allow individual temperature control. As a result, in more than 10% of apartments, excess heat
is vented by opening windows during winter.
Wastewater Management
3.7    The Liangshui River catchment area in the southwestern part of Beijing is the most recently
developed of the city's four major catchment areas, and partly as a result has relatively small coverage of
sewers and no wastewater treatment. As a result the lower reaches of the Liangshui river system carry
virtual sewage with the greatest pollution load among the four urban streams. Elsewhere in the city about
40% of the wastewater, or about 560,000 m /day, is currently treated. The capacity is expected to double
soon with the completion of on-going works, treating nearly all wastewater in these areas. Next to be built
is a 0.4 million m'/day wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) in the Qing River sub-basin. The project will
be financing the major trunk sewers in the Qing River catchment, bringing significan enviommental
improvement. Given that the Liangshui River system generates about 40% of the city's total estimated 2.3
million m /day of wastewater, however, the project's focus for wastewater management is to meet the major
part of the area's sewerage needs with three new WWTPs with a total capacity of about 0.9 million m'/day
and associated sewers.
3.8   Institutional and Financial Issues. On-going and planned works, including those under the project,
would about quadruple the current sewerage capacity, requiring a large expansion of the financial and
institutional capacities to manage it. Beijing Drainage Company (BDC) was established under the recently
completed BEP 1, but its financial and institutional bases are not sufficient to fully discharge its current
responsibilities, let alone the vastly expanded ones. Wastewater tariff revenues in 1999, although much
increased over the last several years, fall short of operating expenditures, and they are given to BDC on an
as needed basis. BDC also is limited to operation and maintenance of a limited range of storm and sanitary
drainage. The current policy environment, however, encourages moves toward stronger financial and
institutional autonomy. Under the broad governmental and enterprise reform initiatives of the state, the
new BMG leadership has been reorganizing various public and quasi-public entities toward consolidation
of fragmented functions, greater separation from the government, and increased financial and managerial
autonomy and accountability. In addition, the central govermnent has provided strong support to
strengthen the finances and management of sewerage by promulgating a "Circular of the State Development
Planning Commission, Ministry of Construction and the State Environmental Protection Administration on
Strengthening the Collection of Wastewater Tariff and Establishing a Sound Operation Mechanism on the
Discharge of Urban Wastewater and Central Treatment" in September 1999. The Circular stipulates, inter
alia, that wastewater tariffs should be collected by water supply enterprises with the water tariff and
transferred monthly to the wastewater management enterprises, strictly limiting exemptions; the tariff
should cover all operations, maintenance, including depreciation, a reasonable margin of profits and if
justified, investment costs; and that the tariff should replace various similar charges. It also stipulates that
wastewater treatment entities shall adopt corporate-style management and independent accounting.
-8 -



3.9   In keeping with these broad reform directions, BMG has recently increased wastewater tariffs from
an average of 26 fen/mh to 41 fen/m3. BDC's responsibility and staff have also been expanded during
project preparation, transferring part of those that formerly belonged to the Beijing Municipal Engineering
Bureau, the BDC's parent authority. This includes the responsibility for managing capital investment
starting from those under the project. The project would support the institutional and technical
strengthening of BDC required by the restructuring and expansion of its responsibilities, paying attention to
aspects commonly overlooked in the pursuit for financial and institutional autonomy: building of technical
capacity to manage the sewerage facilities efficiently, and building of an institutional framework to ensure
adequate accountability.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1.0   The project targets the two main pollution issues of Beijing - air pollution and wastewater. The
principal air pollution control component would assist with converting scattered coal boilers to natural gas.
A GEF-fmanced component (B) would support this as well as enhance the replicability and sustainability
of the conversion by helping to develop the gas boiler market and technology. A second GEF-fmanced
component (C) would complement the conversion by helping to improve the energy efficiency of overall
heating systems. The main two wastewater management components would complete the trunk sewer
network and provide secondary sewage treatment for the Liangshui River sub-basin. A third wastewater
component would provide trunk interceptor sewers in the neighboring section of the Qing River sub-basin.
The sewers will eventually discharge to a WWTP to be constructed under government and bilateral
financing. The project also includes components to support institutional development for air quality and
wastewater management. The components, their estimated costs, and financing are listed in the table
below, followed by a brief description of the main features and goals of each component.
C                   j4!c?r
A. Boiler Conversion               Pollution Control   488.13     38.9    165.00      44.1
/ Waste
Management
B.*Gas Boiler Market and           Pollution Control    33.13      2.6     16.50       4.4
Technology Development         / Waste
Management
C.*Heating Energy Conservation     Pollution Control    13.62      1.1      8.50       2.3
/ Waste
Management
D. Air Quality Monitoring and     Institutional        3.88        0.3      3.30       0.9
Decision Support               Development
E. Liangshui River Sewers          Sewerage          106.74        8.5     34.50       9.2
F. Liangshui River Wastewater      Sewerage          231.00       18.4    116.65      31.2
Treatment Plants
G. Qing River Sewers               Sewerage           65.28        5.2     20.11       5.4
- 9-



H. Beijing Drainage Company        Institutional       6.45        0.5       5.95       1.6
Development                    Development
I. Land acquisition and            Resettlement      303.28       24.2       0.00       0.0
resettlement
Total Project Costs                 1251.51       99.7    370.51       99.1
Front-end fee                    3.49        0.3       3.49       0.9
Total Financing Required                  1255.00      100.0    374.00      100.0
* Amounts shown in the Bank financing column for components B and C are GEF grant amounts.
Air Pollution Control Components
1.1    Boiler Conversion. The project would assist BMG in carrying out its program of converting all
small and medium-sized coal-fired boilers within the fourth Ring Road and Shijingshan District
(Smoke-Control Area) by 2005. As discussed in Section B.3, speedy and efficient conversion from coal to
gas requires (i) regulatory and pricing measures to internalize the environmental cost of coal, (ii) gas
distribution infrastructure, and (iii) easing of financial and technical barriers to conversion at individual and
market levels. With the Bank loan provided for Component A, SJET would import gas boilers and
associated equipment and sell them to boiler owners on installments over a period of up to 18 years. Under
the common configuration, imported equipment takes up about one-third of the total cost of conversion.
The Bank loan of $165 million (net of front-end and commitment charges) would finance the equipment
needed for converting 2000-2500 scattered coal-fired heating boilers of medium capacity (1- 10 tph, 3.2 on
average). These represent about one-third of medium-sized boilers that have access to natural gas within
the Smoke-control area, and about two-thirds of those that are believed to require and afford installment
financing. These include some 670 boilers owned by entities fully or partly funded by BMG or district
government budgets. The rest would be sold by SJET at its own full risk. The eventual number of boilers
financed under the project would depend upon the size mix of boilers, extent of equipment provided (from a
full complement of heating equipment to just a natural gas burner core), and actual prices that are expected
to decline during the project (see below C.3). In general, the market and the program are both too novel to
design implementation with great certainty. Therefore, the major elements of the component would be
evaluated and if necessary adjusted after about two full years of operation.
1.2    Gas Boiler Market and Technology Development (Global Component). Major market barriers
to conversion to natural gas are largely those usually associated with any product introduction: small
market size, weak infrastructure for sales and services, the resultant inefficiency, high cost of equipment
and technology, information gap and high perceived risks. To ease these barriers, SJET would carry out the
following activities:
Technology Development and Capacity Building Activities (using about $7.4 M of GEF grant)
*   Introducing and developing efficient models of boiler configuration, installation, and operation, to
increase efficiency. This will cover not only boilers but the broad heating system elements
associated with gas boilers, in conjunction with the heating energy efficiency component;
*   Introducing advanced technologies such as condensing boiler sections, zone and radiant heating
systems;
*   Monitoring and evaluation of converted boilers, to improve technical efficiency and information;
*   Training and documentation to raise technical levels of boiler assemblers, technical service firms,
and boiler operators to increase technical capacity and efficiency and to reduce technical risks and
costs; and
- 10-



*   Advisory services to assist with the design and installation of boiler conversion and
trouble-shooting during operation, to reduce costs and the negative public perception, and to
provide on-the-job technical training.
Market Development and Demonstration Activities (using about $9.1 M of GEF grant)
*   Arranging cooperative procurement to lower costs, through demand surveys, order aggregation and
assistance for procurement packaging;
*   Disseminating information to boiler owners, operators and the general public, and individual
conversion pre-feasibility analyses, to develop technical and marketing capacity, and to reduce
information gap and capital costs; and
*   Developing standard configurations and piloting installation of dispersed heating supply systems
with gas boilers for individual buildings and even apartment units, that allow land savings and
individual control of heating made possible by conversion to gas.
*   Installing and monitoring model gas boilers replacing at least 45 coal-fired boilers (the number of
the gas boilers could be larger if smaller, distributed gas boilers replace a given size coal boilers -
see Annex 2) around the city in various size categories, types (steam and water) and locations, for
training and demonstration purposes to strengthen technical capacity and reduce the technical risk
and information gap.
1.3    Heating Energy Conservation (Global Component). Taking advantage of opportunities created
by the boiler conversion program, a newly established Heating Energy Conservation Center (HECC) would
carry out the following activities for sustained energy efficiency improvements in the heating systems as a
whole, including the remaining large coal-fired boilers:
- Development of a heating energy efficiency promotion system consisting of HECC, a network of
specialists and contractors, and a long-term program of best practice development and promotion;
*   Development and dissemination of best practice models for heat delivery systems covering
elements from boilers to end-users, for coal-fired boilers, and to a limited extent, oil- and gas-fired
boilers, for insulation and other broad heating energy conservation measures;
-   Energy auditing of heating system chains and providing advice on appropriate energy conservation
options;
*   Assistance to motivated heat suppliers to prepare technical and financing plans for energy
conservation investments;
*   Assistance for implementation of selected heating energy conservation measures that will be used
for demonstration purposes around the city;
*   Pilot installation and evaluation of individual heat metering and control, to establish policies to
ensure end-user motivation for conservation;
*   Pilot retrofit of selected buildings for heat control and metering and for improved insulation, for
experimentation and policy evaluation; and
*   Studies and training to improve the data base and policy and institutional frameworks of
incentives and regulations to facilitate the use of cleaner energy, energy conservation, and
environmental management, supplementing the air quality management support component
described below.
1.4    Air Quality Monitoring and Decision Support. To assist in improving BMG's ability to acquire,
analyze, and use information on air quality and pollution sources for timely policy and planning purposes,
the project would support BEPB's procurement of various types of equipment and software for monitoring,
analysis, simulation, and evaluation as well as training of policy-makers and its own staff and related
- 11 -



agencies (transportation, health, and planning departments). This will be carried out in conjunction with
the energy and environment study carried out under the Global component C.
Wastewater Management Components
1.5    Liangshui River Sewers. BDC will construct approximately 48 km of trunk sewers to intercept
sanitary sewage now discharging to watercourses in the Liangshui River watershed. These include Xingkai
Ditch trunk interceptor sewer, Liangshui River Southern Bank trunk interceptor sewers, Fengcao River
trunk interceptor sewer, the Songjiazhuang trunk interceptor sewer and trunk sewers related to the
Wujiacun, Lugouqiao and Xiaohongmen wastewater treatment plants (WWTP).
1.6    Liangshui River Sewage Treatment This component includes three secondary WWTPs treating
sewage intercepted by the trunk sewers described above: (a) the Wujiacun WWTP, with a capacity of
80,000 m3/day; (b) the Lugouqiao WWTP, with a capacity of 200,000 m 3/day; and (c) the Xiaohongmen
WWTP with a capacity of 600,000 m /day.
1.7    Qing River Sewers. This component includes construction of about 26 km of trunk interceptor
sewers along the northern bank of the Qing River, trunk sewers along the eastern bank of the Xiaoyue
River, the Dangxiaodong trunk sewer, trunk interceptor sewer downstream of Wangquan River, and trunk
interceptor sewers along the planned Tuchenbei and Chengfu Roads. The Qing River WWTP which will
eventually treat wastewater conveyed by the Qing River trunk sewers will be constructed in the future
with government and bilateral funding outside of the project.
1.8    Beijing Drainage Company Institutional Development. The Beijing Drainage Company (BDC)
will undertake a comprehensive institutional development program through policy actions, technical
assistance and training to improve its technical and managerial capacity to execute and maintain capital
works. A set of equipment for improved maintenance operations will be procured. These will enable BDC
to become an autonomous, self-financing entity responsible for planning, construction, financing and
operation of the drainage, sewerage, and sewage treatment systems of Beijing.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
2.1   For air quality management, the project's main institutional focus is on developing the market basis
for and technical capacity of commercial entities to support expanding, sustained, and efficient use of
natural gas and expanded and sustained heating energy conservation. Accordingly, SJET and 1ECC
would maintain only small staffs of their own and carry out most of the project activities through local
consultants and contractors. After the project, HECC would continue as the currently lacking institutional
focus for policy-setting, promotion, and information dissemination. SJET would retain up to 20 technical
experts under its direct employment during peak project implementation, but would wind down most of the
technical operation as the project comes to the close. The technical specialists are expected to join
commercial consulting or service firms and utilize the skills learned on the job. After project completion,
SJET would maintain a small staff to manage the continuing inflow of installment payments. It is also
expected to continue as an importer and distributor of heating and energy equipment in Beijing and
elsewhere in China on a competitive basis.
2.2    To a limited extent, the project would also contribute to improvements in policy and regulatory
frameworks to complement the market-oriented activities. A study to be financed by GEF would review the
incentives and structure of energy and heating markets, regarding both the suppliers and users, to provide
an analytical basis for the municipal planning of energy supply and pricing, and for the continuing reform
- 12 -



of the energy and heating markets. The study would also review the implications of the changing energy
use to the air quality and its regulation and help the establishment of BMG's air quality management
framework. This would supplement the strengthening of air quality monitoring and decision support
systems improvement component financed with the Bank loan. The pilot installation and evaluation of heat
metering is also included to introduce market-based management of energy demand.
2.3    For wastewater management, the project pursues a more traditional set of institutional development
goals and strategies, except that it takes an incremental step beyond what has now been established as the
norm in China, building on the achievements under BEP I and the strong reform orientation of BMG and
BDC leadership. BMG has committed to key steps to bring about full financial and managerial autonomy
of BDC, establishing a new corporate structure for BDC with autonomous Boards of Directors and
Supervisors, transferring authority to BDC to retain and manage all tariff revenues, and transferring all
sewerage and drainage assets to BDC by the end of 2001. These reform efforts would be guided by a
policy-level Leading Group chaired by a vice mayor. Technical assistance, training, and equipment
provided under the project would assist with detailing the actions necessary for the reform steps, as well as
helping to ensure competent execution of the project and operation of vastly increased sewerage facilities.
BMG has also raised tariffs and agreed to allow further increases as needed to cover full costs including
depreciation or debt service, whichever is larger.
3. Benefits and target population:
Air Quality Improvement
3.1    At current prices and common boiler configurations, the Bank loan allocated for boiler conversion
is estimated to be able to cover about 1900 boilers. However, organized cooperative procurement of this
magnitude and market and technical efficiency improvements achieved with the GEF financing are expected
to result in considerable reduction in the price of the equipment and technical services. The project target
of 2175 boilers assumes a reduction of these costs by 30% in real terms over the project period. That
would bring these prices roughly in line with those in the intemational market, but no change in other
locally produced goods. These market development benefits would be shared by others, around 4000
boilers to be converted in Beijing which will not be directly financed under the project, as well as future
buyers of gas boilers in Beijing and elsewhere in China.
3.2    With project assistance, a total of about 6000 medium-sized heating boilers, with an average
capacity of about 3.2 tph, are projected to be converted to natural gas within the Smoke-free area by 2005,
as well as a small number of industrial and district heating boilers. In areas where natural gas is not
available, some 1500 similar boilers are expected to be converted to oil or coal gas. In addition, the
conversion of all small stoves and boilers to various clean fuels, started in the winter of 1998-99 with BMG
directives and subsidies, is expected to be fully completed by 2001. The combined effects of these are the
reduction of nearly 7 million tons of coal used per year and about 1.7 million tons of carbon dioxide
emission per year, for significant global environmental benefits. Reductions in ambient air pollutants
during the heating season include: about 60% of sulfur dioxide, about 30% of carbon monoxide and
nitrogen oxides, and by inference, ultrafine particles. The resulting air quality would meet Class IJR
standards during the heating season in the urban area of Beijing. Around 20% of these reductions would be
directly attributable to the boiler conversion and energy conservation under the project. With the expected
significant reduction in vehicle emissions resulting from the other part of BMG's clean air program, the
year-round air quality is expected to be close to the Class II standards for healthy urban air. This would
bring enormous health benefits to all residents of the urban area of Beijing where an estimate 5.3 million
people are now exposed to air quality worse than Class III for over 60 days during the heating season.
- 13-



Wastewater Management.
3.3    The project would provide wastewater collection and treatment to the entire Liangshui River
sub-basin and a part of Qing River sub-basin that together account for nearly half of all wastewater
discharges in the Beijing urban area. This would improve the surface and ground water quality and make
the surface stream water available for irrigation in the city as well as downstream. These investments will
provide significant benefits to residents of the basins and more generally to the entire Beijing urban area,
through the reduction of health hazards from potential exposure to discharges of untreated sewage to open
watercourses and improvement of environmental conditions due to improved surface water quality. The
estimated populations of the Qing River and Liangshui River catchments are currently about 0.9 million
and 2.3 million, respectively.
3.4   In the Liangshui River basin the trunk interceptor sewers and three major WWTPs will intercept
and treat to China national discharge standards, the untreated sewage now being discharged directly to the
watercourses of the basin, and currently being used for irrigation on agricultural lands south of the urban
area. The facilities will result in significant (about 76%) reductions in surface water pollution levels, and a
72% reduction in the quantities of untreated sewage infiltrating to groundwater underlying the basin. The
loadings of hardness, nitrate-nitrogen, total dissolved solids and sulfates on the groundwater will be reduced
on average about 50%, 40%, 40 % and 35 %, respectively, resulting in imnprovement of groundwater
quality.
3.5    The construction of the trunk interceptor sewers in the Qing River basin is an essential part of
BDC's overall program to improve water quality in the basin. These facilities alone will significantly
reduce the current pollution of watercourses throughout the basin which are now receiving untreated
wastewater directly at many locations and conveying it downstream. Following secondary treatment at the
Qing River WWTP, to be constructed in future outside this project, effluent will meet the applicable
National surface water discharge standards. Long term benefits will accrue downstream of the WWTP in
the form of improved quality of water used for irrigation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1    Agencies primarily responsible for preparation and implementation of individual project
components are listed in Table C.2 below. The overall project would be coordinated by the Beijing
Environmental Project Office (BEPO) headed by the Executive Vice Director of the Beijing Municipal
Development Planning Commission. Policy guidance and support would be provided by the Project
Leading Group, chaired by the Executive Vice Mayor of BMG and including two Vice Mayors, Directors
of BEPB, Construction Commission, and BEPO, and Vice Directors of Beijing Finance Bureau and
Municipal Administration Commission. This in tum will be guided by the municipal leading group for
environmental improvement, headed by the Mayor.
Table C.2 Agencies Responsible for Project Preparation and Implementation
Project Component               Implementing Agency
A. Boiler conversion            Shihuan Jietian Energy Technology Corp., Ltd. (SJET),
working with the Beijing Gas Group Corporation, District
Governiments, and Beijing Environrnental Protection Bureau
B. Gas boiler market and        SJET, in cooperation with Heating Energy Conservation
technology development          Center
- 14 -



C. Heating energy conservation  Heating Energy Conservation Center under the Residential
Heating Administration Office, working with SJET on tasks
involving gas boilers
D. Air quality monitoring and   Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau in coordination with
decision support                relevant research institutes
E-I. All wastewater management  Beijing Drainage Company, assisted by Beijing Municipal
components                      Engineering Corporation
4.2    Boiler Conversion. Eight district governments (DG) had been given the primary administrative
responsibility to assist and ensure conversion of coal-fired boilers and stoves under BMG's overall fuel
conversion programs, coordinating with BEPB and BGGC for the necessary regulatory and technical
support. These responsibilities will continue, even though the further financial and technical assistance
available under the project would be provided through the newly established SJET on a commercial basis.
To overcome the barriers to conversion and hence its sales volume, SJET will work with these agencies in
identifying and assisting the buyers of its natural gas boilers. Although SJET would manage the operation
as an autonomous enterprise, its pricing and installment terms would be subject to agreement with BMG in
return for the concession for utilizing the Bank loan and for supplying boilers for units belonging to BMG
and DG. The initial terms of the boiler sales would include the following:
3 Price: including a mark-up of 2% of the manufacturer's price for the first 1,000 buyers (expected
by 2002), 5% for others;
-   Down payment additional 5.5% of the boiler price paid on signing the sales contract, which will be
before SJET signs contract with boiler suppliers;
3   Financing charge: the same rate as the World Bank loan for BMG and DG units; the same plus up
to 2% per annum for others depending upon SJET's credit evaluation;
*   Installment: in equal installments over a period, at the buyer's choice up to one year less than the
remaining maturity of the Bank loan (in practice 12-18 years depending upon the year of sales) in
the case of BMG and DG units; up to 12 years for others as agreed between buyer and SJET.
There would normally be no grace period, unless SJET specifically agrees as an exception and at a
charge; and
3   Security: BMG guaranty for units fully funded under BMG budget; real estate or other assets
required as collateral in addition to or in lieu of third party guarantees for others.
4.3    These terms are set to provide incentives for SJET to maximize the volume and speed of
conversion while minimizing its expenses and collection losses. The installment payment would be added
to the natural gas bill and collected by BGGC and transferred within a month of receipt to SJET. The
arrears on the gas bills have been about 10% in the recent past, but this may well go up as the usage
expands beyond the early, more affluent converters. SJET therefore would need to take careful measures to
secure its receivables. Major criteria for appraisal of the buyer's credit would be the current liquidity and
heating expenses, as well as the quality of collateral and guarantees. The current estimation is that there
are about 350 boilers that belong directly to BMG units, and another 350 owned by DG units or those
partly funded by BMG or DG, such as hospitals and research institutions. The former present little credit
risk as BMG guarantee can be enforced at the point of SJET's repayment of the Bank loan. Others present
a higher risk as guarantees can be difficult to enforce in the case arrears or default. Collateral would be
therefore required from these units even with BMG or DG guarantees. SJET may refuse to provide the gas
boiler even for these government units, as well as non-governmental buyers, if it is not satisfied with the
credit security.
4.4   In practice, however, the more serious risk would be a lack of sufficient demand, given the barriers
discussed in Section B.3, the burden of large counterpart financing (about two-thirds of the total cost), and
- 15 -



the cost of the Bank loan which is, on simple comparison, higher than domestic commercial loans though it
provides much longer maturities. Therefore SJET is encouraged by the incentives built in the pricing
structure as well as BMG to adopt an aggressive rather than cautious sales strategy. Market development
measures financed by GEF would aid in promoting the market demand. In order to encourage conversion
during the early years when the market barriers would remain especially strong, BMG would provide
counterpart financing resources for its own units to convert within the first two years. For others, BMG
would make available to needy boiler owners about Y 32 million for subsidies that would decline from Y
150,000 for conversion in 2000 to Y 50,000 in 2002, and none thereafter. Financial analyses (Annex 5)
show that the above terms would provide room for up to 5% in collection losses. After two years'
experience these implementing arrangements would be reviewed and adjusted as necessary with a view to
balancing BMG's objective of maximizing conversion and SJETs interest in maximizing profit. SJET
would be allowed to enter into other businesses as long as they are strictly separated for accounting
purposes and not in conflict with the operations supported by the Bank and GEF.
4.5    Global Components. SJET will manage the GEF-financed component (B) under a separate
account on a cost-reimbursement basis, except that the administrative overheads will be absorbed in the
main account, to be recovered through the sales margin on the Bank-financed boilers. GEF-fmanced
component C would be the only operation of HECC during the project period. These components involve
large amounts of free technical assistance for boiler owners, operators, and technical specialists by
consultants hired by SJET and HECC. The assistance would be limited to promoting conversion and
conservation and building relevant technical capacity. For example, assistance provided to boiler owners
interested in conversion or conservation investments would include initial evaluation, identification of
available options and sources of further technical assistance. Further technical services would be
independently obtained and paid for by the beneficiaries. For a small number of demonstration
installations, GEF financing would be applied to a greater extent, including full technical design services
and core equipment, but in general they would still be not more than one-third of the total cost.
4.6    Wastewater Management Components. All wastewater management components would be
managed under BDC's responsibility, except for the restructuring of BDC itself, for which the BMG
Leading Group for BDC restructuring would retain policy decision authority. Accordingly, one of three
consulting teams that deals with BDC's institutional structure and accountability would report to the
Leading Group. The Beijing Municipal Engineering Bureau, now reconstituted as Beijing Municipal
Engineering Corporation, carried out the sewerage component under BEP I, and has led the preparation of
the sewerage works components until it changed its status as agent and advisor to BDC in this matter in
1999. It would continue to serve in this capacity. Financing sources of the wastewater components would
be broadly distributed: $179 M from the Bank, $182.5 M from domestic banks, BDC internal funds $155
M, central government $154 M, and BMG $150 M.
4.7    Onlending and Disbursement. A Bank loan of $349 M and a GEF grant of $25 M will be made to
the Government of China. The terms of the Bank loan would include a maturity of 20 years including 5
years' grace, the standard interest rate for variable spread US dollar single currency loans, and standard
front-end fees and commitment charges. GOC would pass on the loan proceeds to the Beijing Municipal
Governnent on the same terms and conditions, and the grant to BMG free of any charge, commission or
fees. BMG will onlend $166.7 M of the loan to SJET and $179 M to BDC, both on the same terms and
conditions. SJET would also receive $16.5 M from the GEF grant proceeds free of any charge,
commission, or fees. The remainder, $8.5 M of GEF grant and $3.3 M of the loan will be made available
to BMG's own units, HECC and BEPB, for project components C and D, respectively. The loan and grant
proceeds would be disbursed according to the traditional procedures, through two Special Accounts
managed by BEPO, with an authorization of $18 M and $2 M respectively for Bank loan and GEF grant.
- 16 -



Details are described in Annex 6.
4.8    Monitoring, Reporting and Mid-term Review. Implementing agencies would prepare semiannual
progress reports summarizing the implementation progress and financial expenditures by component,
details of resettlement actions and revisions to the RAP, measurements of monitoring indicators, and other
information requested by the Bank. The reports will be consolidated by BEPO and submitted to the Bank
by February 15, 2001 and every six months thereafter. The progress report due on August 15, 2002 would
contain in-depth information and evaluation of the implementation experience up to then. This would be
used for a thorough mid-term review by the end of 2002 to determine the need and nature of adjustments to
the project implementation plan. The focus of the mid-term review and adjustment would be: (i) the pace
and risks of boiler conversion, (ii) effectiveness of GEF-financed components, and (iii) a comparison of
projected and actual wastewater generation. The project is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 2006
and the loan and grant accounts to close on December 31, 2006.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1    BMG's initial proposal would have devoted the major part of the project to a large solid waste
incinerator. This was rejected as it was at best premature and the solid waste issues in general are far less
serious an environmental risk as air pollution or wastewater. Similarly a proposed improvement in a water
supply channel was excluded in the interest of limiting the project scope and in view of the little
value-added by the Bank.
1.2   For air pollution control, a large part of the initial proposal consisted of various industrial
renovations that would reduce pollution. This was rejected in view of the primarily commercial nature of
the proposed investments and the bad repayment record of past industrial subloans. One proposed
industrial component that has remained under consideration would have supported a reduction of air and
water pollution from the Coking plant of the Capital Iron and Steel Corporation, the city's noted polluter.
This proposal was rejected, however, as the Corporation was not prepared to provide satisfactory
assurance regarding the financial obligation as well as a company-wide environmental improvement
program.
1.3    Another air pollution control initiative considered was pilot conversion of motor vehicles to use
liquefied petroleum gas. This proposal was, however, was largely preempted by BMG's new regulation
requiring three-way catalytic converters on all small passenger vehicles, which would control vehicle
emissions to levels little different from LPG-fueled cars. A more promising avenue for air pollution control
is the program to expand the use of low sulfur coal, which BMG started recently. The Bank's potential
contribution, however, would be limited and its global benefits are minimal.
1.4   For fuel conversion, conversion of specific industrial boilers was rejected in view of the issues of
industrial financing discussed above as well as the dominant environmental importance of scattered heating
boilers. The first main alternative evaluated carefully for conversion of the scattered heating boilers was to
use the existing network of financial institutions and boiler dealers. This was, however, considered
insufficient to overcome the multitude of barriers to conversion existing at this early stage of the gas boiler
market and technology and support the pace of conversion BMG wished. Individually, their interest or
accountability would have been weak without a focal point to generate and aggregate sufficient demand and
provide the necessary technical and institutional support. Given the difficulty of BGGC to exercise such a
- 17 -



leadership as it goes through difficult corporate transition itself, SJET was established to act as the focal
agency to develop the technology and the market.
1.5   For wastewater management, the Qing River and Liangshui River catchment areas have been
chosen for the project, over an initial proposal to support more scattered sewerage works. This approach
was adopted because of the existing and expanding trunk interceptor and treatment facilities capacity in
other major catchment areas of Beijing compared with the complete lack of such major critical facilities in
these areas --as well as the opportunity to markedly improve wastewater management on a catchment-wide
basis. Representing about 50% of the existing Beijing urban area and more than half of Beijing's
population, the Qing River and Liangshui River catchments are clearly priorities for implementation.
1.6   For wastewater treatment in the Liangshui River catchment, five WWTPs were originally
considered. An analysis, however, showed that Xiaohongmen WWTP could be enlarged to accommodate
sewage flows that would have been directed to two other proposed WWTPs, at Zhengwangfen and
Nanyuan, avoiding the high resettlement and land acquisition costs. The Xiaohongmen WWTP, that would
have 600,000 mr/day capacity, can be expanded further to 900,000 m /day. Before 2010, however, the
necessity of a WWTP at Zhengwanfen would have to be re-evaluated.
1.7    At Wujacun WWTP, the original proposal was to build a smaller, tertiary treatment facility
(40,000 m /day). Analysis during project preparation showed, however, that the larger sewage flow was
likely to materialize sooner than originally projected, and that secondary effluent would be close enough to
the discharge standard, that the trade-off between the capacity and treatment level should be made in favor
of capacity.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supeprvsion
Sector Issue      Project                 ~~~~(PSR) Ikaii6s
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
District Heating, Industrial Pollution   Beijing Environmental Project  S       S
Control, Wastewater and Solid Waste  (completed 1999)
Management
Energy conservation              China Energy Conservation         S            S
Project (Bank/GEF financing,
ongoing)
Energy Conservation              Efficient Industrial Boilers      S            S
(with GEF, ongoing)
Other development agencies
District Heating; Natural Gas     Beijing Environment Project
distribution; Wastewater          (Asian Development Bank,
ongoing)
Industrial energy conservation    Energy Conservation in
Township and Village
Enterprises (UNDP with GEF
financing, ongoing)
- 18 -



Energy conservation                High Efficiency Refrigerator
(UNDP with GEF financing,
ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
GEF Energy Efficiency Programs for China. The overall GEF program to assist China to reduce GHG
emissions through energy conservation seeks to alleviate the barriers to energy conservation by helping to:
(a) improve access to relevant information, (b) facilitate the transfer of advanced technology, especially for
the production of high efficiency equipment, (c) decrease the costs of adoption of energy efficiency
measures, and (d) develop institutions that can more effectively spur energy conservation under the market
economy. The program is currently supporting two UTNDP-implemented technical assistance projects (the
approved Energy Conservation in Township and Village Enterprises Project, and the High Efficiency
Refrigerator Project) and two Bank-implemented investment projects (the approved Efficient Industrial
Boilers Project, the Energy Conservation Project). The two UNDP-iinplemented projects target subsectors
not directly relevant to the urban heat supply.
The Efficient Industrial Boilers Project, supporting the technology transfer for manufacturing of
efficient coal boilers, would indirectly help improve efficiency of coal-fired district heating boilers. The
Energy Conservation Project supports energy management companies in order to develop market-based
energy conservation services. The current project complements these projects with the focus on urban
heating and fuel conversion which are closely related but lie largely outside the scope of these projects. It
also draws upon technology and capacity built under these projects, such as the diagnosis made of
coal-fired boilers and the market for energy and energy conservation. Involvement of the Beijing Yuanshan
Energy Management Company as a minority shareholder of SJET is an attempt to benefit from the energy
market skills built under the project.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
3.1    Difficulties in utilizing the natural gas distribution mains point to a serious blind spot in BMG's
planning system in transition: the assumption that end-users, financial institutions and suppliers would
carry out their part to complete the fuel conversion program. The failure of this assumption, risking
serious under-utilization of the large investments, prompted BMG to accept the Bank's offer of assistance
to finance and promote end-user conversion. On the other hand, experiences with industrial pollution
control subloans, financed under BEP I as well as other projects, have confirmed problems associated with
industrial lending outside the normal market mechanism in general. Most of the subprojects resulted in
significant pollution reduction. However, the promise of high financial retums, which motivated most of
the subprojects, failed to materialize for many borrowers due to market or management weaknesses, casting
doubt on the viability of any investment in such borrowers. Even where the financial returns are positive,
subloan repayment has been poor due mainly to the lack of accountability on the part of the financial agent
and the government. This lesson highlights the need for clear accountability and commercial incentives for
market entities, and the indispensability of regulatory enforcement. These lessons have been reflected in the
project design which features substantial risks and incentives for SJET, working in conjunction with
municipal and district regulations to discourage coal burning.
- 19 -



3.2    An insight gained during the implementation of BEP I was the apparent limitation to scale
economies in large-scale central heating systems, although this needs to be confrmed by a systematic
study. Large boilers hold higher efficiency in heating generation due to combustion efficiency and labor
savings, as well as in emission control. Nevertheless, unit cost of heating by the wide-area system has
turned out to be higher than smaller local district heating, with about 20-50 tph, by about 20%. In other
words, there appears to be an optimal scale of district heating far below the large integrated system of
Beijing that supplies heat to around 2 million m2. One aspect of the inefficiency appears to be the heat
losses during the long distance transmission. Another high cost factor is the high cost of capital investments
and maintenance that appears to offset the efficiency gains in operation, at least for the system used for less
than half of the year. Further limiting the efficiency are the institutional and incentive problems associated
with a large public monopoly. This lesson has resulted in reduced emphasis on the city-wide district
heating system by BMG. The benefits and costs of various central heating systems would be a part of the
study on energy and environment, proposed under the project.
3.3    The Beijing District Heating Company which operates the wide-area heating has continued to
introduce various mechanical measures to increase the combustion efficiency as well as automatic systems
for improved monitoring and optimization of heat generation. As the efficiency of large boilers is high,
however, these efforts have had a relatively marginal effects. While inefficiencies in heat distribution was
recognized, little efforts were directed in this direction mainly due to the difficulty of having to deal with a
large number of end-users. Smaller heating facilities are operated either by entities for their own use or by
commercial heat providers that charge regulated heat tariffs. These heating facilities have considerably less
efficient coal boilers compared with the wide-area heating, but little conservation efforts have been made
due to a lack of investment and technical resources available to these small facilities. In all of these cases,
one of the most important inefficiency factors is the lack of end-user motivation and control, given the flat
heating prices and the old heating supply network that does not allow individual control of heat. A pilot
program to introduce end-user control and metering of heat was added to BEP I toward the end of its
implementation, but the result is not yet available. The heating energy conservation component under the
proposed project would, in light of these experiences, focus on assisting smaller scale heating facilities on
overall heating system efficiencies, including heat end-use, by augmenting technical resources and
examples available to the smaller heat providers and end-users.
3.4    The most important lessons leamed under many wastewater projects around the world have been
that coordination of different parts of the system, between trunk sewers and secondary sewers and between
collection and treatment, determine the efficacy of the investment and the institutional and financial
frameworks determine the sustainability. The wastewater management component of the project
incorporates these lessons by integration of wastewater collection and treatment, and by comprehensive and
substantial financial and institutional development programs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
4.1    The proposed project represents an unusually strong convergence of the city's critical needs, the
govenmmenf s strategy, and the Bank's interest and ability to assist. The proposed components are
measures that have been at various stages of planning or implementation by BMG on its own. Decisions to
take the large steps such as broad conversion of boilers have been difficult to reach due to the magnitude of
the difficulties and fragmented responsibilities of various line agencies. The new senior leadership of BMG
has, however, provided an unambiguous policy direction to commit BMG to these components and further,
elevated them as the major priority of the city and the nation. The national government has committed
Yuan 6 billion to support these initiatives.
- 20 -



4.2    BMG's air pollution control programs have been announced as a series of measures in the winter of
1998-99, and are being carried out. Noticeable actions taken so far include: enforcing the requirements for
catalytic converters for passenger vehicles and banning those that cannot be retrofitted, regulatory orders
and partial subsidies to convert small stoves and tea and bath boilers to clean fuels, allocation of
counterpart funds for its own units to convert heating boilers, and enforcement of a ban on open burning
within the Smoke Control Area. As a result of these actions, the air quality of Beijing has significantly
improved already, especially during non-heating seasons. BMG has also started to publish daily summary
air quality reports.
4.3    BMG raised its domestic and industrial wastewater tariffs in 1999 to levels sufficient to cover
existing operations and maintenance costs and depreciation of fixed assets on its sewerage operations
(although its drainage operations are still under-financed). As early as three years ago, domestic
consumers were not charged a wastewater tariff, but as of July 1999, domestic consumers pay Y0.30/mr of
water consumed. Industrial consumers, three years ago paid Y0.30/mr on 80% of water consumed, but
since October 1999, industrial consumers have been paying Y0.50/m3 of water consumed. Part of the
revenues generated from these increased tariffs will be used as BDC's internal cash contribution to the new
project investments, and should provide financing for about 20% of total wastewater investments during the
project implementation period.
4.4    BMG taken the opportunity presented by a general reorganization to restructure the oversight and
management of the wastewater sector. In the past, the Beijing Municipal Engineering Bureau controlled
the construction of wastewater assets, oversaw operations and maintenance of the sewage networks, and
planned new investrnents for the sector. Currently, BDC reports directly to the Beijing Municipal
Administration Commission on all these aspects and is expected to enter a contractual relationship with
BMEB (now BMEC) for the repair and maintenance of its sewage network. A high level leading group,
headed by the Vice Mayor of Beijing, is being established to ensure that reforms within the sector,
including raising tariffs, are carried out. Internally, BDC has reformed its organization, adding needed
departments, and strengthening its management and technical staff.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
5.1    During project identification the Bank has played a catalytic role for the BMG leadership to
establish clear priorities and commit to major steps to improve its air and water quality, which has resulted
in city-wide programs that go much beyond the project. Analyses and discussions during project
preparation assisted in developing more effective implementation arrangements, advances in institutional
structuring, and generation and adoption of more efficient technical alternatives discussed above. These
contributions are expected to continue during implementation, especially as the boiler conversion program
is only at the start of an experimentation, and the institutional development of BDC would benefit from the
related experiences around the world.
5.2    For boiler conversion component, the Bank would provide the critically needed financing that
commercial banks and suppliers have not been willing at this stage to extend due to unfamiliarity with the
technology and with the borrowers. The financing would also allow aggregation of demand at significant
scales to afford economies of scale that is lacking at this stage. The GEF support associated with boiler
conversion would serve as a public investment in the market and technology infrastructure for Beijing as
well as China, that individual companies or even a city would be reluctant to make. GEF support for
energy efficiency and conservation for the heating systems and remaining coal heating boilers complements
the conversion program. While an active product market and financing may eventually develop without
Bank support, the process would be long and wasteful. The technical and market frameworks as well as
- 21 -



the enlarged installed base of boilers would encourage broad participation of market entities.
5.3    For wastewater management in the Qing and Liangshui River systems, the Bank financing allows
coordinated construction of related facilities in an integrated fashion. A more piecemeal approach may
result in underutilized facilities, such as the case where WWTPs are constructed without sufficient
complementary investment in the sewage collection systems. Further, the Bank's involvement would help
establish technical, financial, and institutional frameworks necessary for sustained operation and expansion
of the wastewater management system. The Bank has had extensive and successful experience in
wastewater management elsewhere in China and this experience is being applied in this project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$4 million; ERR = 12.1 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
1.1    The project's singular aim is environmental improvement, whose global and social benefits are
broadly recognized but not easily quantified. Our analysis, however, provides an interesting indication of
the types and magnitude of financial and economic benefits that is useful in designing the project. The
following Table lists approximate magnitudes of the main project benefits and costs:
Table E.1     Project Benefit and Cost Streams, 2000-2030
(Present Value in $ million, 2000 prices, discounted at 12% per year)
Boiler Conversion
Yuan Million $ Million
Operation and Maintenance Cost savings:    1384          167
Land Savings                                654           79
Medical Cost Savings:                       439           53
Additional Capital Cost:                   -1412         -171
Net Total                             1064         129
Economic Intemal Rate of Retum            19.8%
Sewerage
Contingent Valuation                        1876          227
Groundwater for Industries                   235           28
Agricultural benefit, Beijing                259           31
Agricultural benefit, Tianjin               1028           124
Investrnents, including connections        -3814          -461
Operation and Maintenance                   - 616          - 74
Net Total                           - 1032          125
Economic Internal Rate of Return      8.7%
1.2   In the case of wastewater management investments, the internal rate of return, about 8.7% per
year, is lower than the standard discount rate and hence the net present value is negative. It does not include
any direct measure of health benefits that are recognized as one of the most important benefits of
-22 -



wastewater management. Such benefits are likely to be captured at least partly in the contingent valuation
inferred of the residents of the Liangshui and Qing River catchment areas, which is estimated to provide the
major share of benefits. It is followed with improved agricultural production and savings for industrial
ground water resources. If per capita contingent valuation is assumed to increase by 7% a year, as has the
per capita income during the last two decades, instead of 3.5% we assumed, the rate of return would match
the 12% threshold. Such a break-even point can also be reached if industrial and residential water use
benefits, not estimated here, are assumed to be the same as agricultural benefits. Both, or at least the latter,
appears to be a plausible assumption.
1.3    The boiler conversion shows a substantially positive net present value of some $48 million largely
thanks to the operating cost savings of the natural gas boilers which more than offset their higher capital
cost. The operating efficiency of gas boilers is partly due to the nature of the fuel, but on this account, the
natural gas is still far more expensive than coal, even after factoring in the municipal requirement of sulfur
tax and of the more expensive cleaner coal. The most important efficiency gain comes from savings in
labor cost. As wages rise fast along with economic development of Beijing, the comparison turns more
favorable to natural gas boilers. Another substantial financial and economic gain from the boiler
conversion is the savings in land by the elimination of coal yards - about 500 m2 per average boiler. There
are further efficiency advantages of gas boilers, but the above appear sufficient to offset the higher capital
cost of gas boilers. In addition, the well-known health benefits of reduced air pollution is also substantial
though not as dominant as commonly thought.
1.4    Details of the analysis is provided in Annex 4. The analysis in general does not include estimates
of benefits that are highly indirect and conjectural, such as those from institutional development
components, the energy conservation promotion, demonstration and market development effects of the
boiler conversion. The relative costs of carbon abatement are evaluated separately in Annex 11, comparing
the costs of the coal-to-gas conversion compared with that of an alternative strategy focusing on district
heating, rather than comparing the former with scattered coal boilers.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Financial NPV and FRR are not applicable.
2.1    As indicated in paragraph 1.3 above, boiler conversion does not impose a clear financial burden on
most boiler owners as long as long-term financing of the capital cost conversion is provided. Nevertheless,
some boiler owners would not be able to mobilize the substantial counterpart financing that is required. In
Beijing, a large part of cash-short entities are various units under the control of the central, municipal, and
district governments. Most of them are being allocated sufficient funds to finance the boiler conversion.
For others, BMG has set aside funds to subsize the conversion. There still are likely to remain some
entities, estimated to own between 10% and 20% of all scattered boilers, that cannot afford the conversion
and they are likely to be given deferrals or exemptions.
2.2    SJETs main financial task in the initial phase is to generate sufficient liquidity to cover its upfront
costs including the front-end fee and commitment charge on the Bank loan as well as other start-up costs.
Its longer-term financial objective is to maintain sufficient quantity and quality of installment assets to
balance the Bank loan obligations. Currently proposed terms and conditions of its instalhment sales of
boilers are considered adequate to meet these objectives. Collection of the installment payments through
the natural gas bill provides an efficient procedure. Although arrears in the natural gas bills are about
10%, additional guaranties and collateral that SJET will secure, along with careful appraisal of the buyers,
are likely to limit the loss. SJET is a new limited liability company with only Y 1 million paid-in capital.
-23 -



90% of its ownership is however held by two major corporations - BCIC and BGGC, both fully owned in
turn by BMG, and with Y 5 billion and Y 10 billion capital, respectively.
2.3    BDC's long-tern financial objective is to generate sufficient revenues and manage them efficiently
to adequately operate and maintain the drainage and sewerage facilities that are expanding rapidly, and to
meet its debt obligations, with room to finance further capacity expansion. As a project covenant, BDC
would be required to generate sufficient revenues to cover all its current operating expenses plus
depreciation or debt service, whichever is larger (the projection shows that the former is likely to be larger
always). BMG's recent steps and commitments made on occasion of this project make this objective
realistic. The financial projection shows that BDC's annual revenues are likely to reach over $100 M
before the end of the project, and BDC would be able to provide as much to capital investment projects
including this one as well as others. The project period would be a peak expansion period, and investments
after the projects would be relatively minor that BDC is expected to be able to finance with its internal
funds.
Fiscal Impact:
2.3    BMG provides relatively little financing for the execution of the project, directly financing only
about 15% of the total project cost. This would amount to, at the peak, about 1% of its budgetary
revenues. In the unlikely event that BMG will have to assume all the Bank loan repayment obligations,
they will amount, similarly, only about 1% of its budget. A successful execution of the boiler conversion
program would provide a significant financial relief to BMG. It is responsible for the debt incurred for the
natural gas distribution network (some $380 M in total cost so far). It is estimated that sales of each
additional cubic meter would contribute about Y 0.22 toward debt service, after variable cost and sales of
about I billion cubic meters a year would be needed to fully recover the fixed cost. A successful boiler
conversion, beyond the project, would be crucial to reach the sales volume, allowing BGGC to service the
debt without BMG's help.
3. Technical:
3.1    Beijing is at an early stage of developing local skills and experience in natural gas boilers, but they
are well concentrated in a few technical institutions and BGGC, providing an efficient basis for rapid
development. Through experiences in coal gas installations and a small number of existing natural gas
boilers, they have acquired good understanding of basic elements of natural gas boiler characteristics and
installation including safety. Natural gas boilers are supplied mostly as integrated packages requiring little
detailed design or calibration work, which the current technical base would be able to handle adequately
given the small volume of installation expected in the initial year. The GEF-funded technical assistance
would help develop a larger corps of technical personnel and an ability to optimize the selection,
installation and operation of natural gas boilers for more varied operations.
3.2    There are a variety of technical institutions involved in heating, but the technical capacity and
knowledge are dispersed and insufficiently applied or developed. The creation of HECC and technology
development and promotion with the GEF support is expected to help resolve these issues.
3.3    BDC's mandate had been limited to operation of trunk wastewater facilities, under the direction of
BMEB which controlled planning and execution of capital works. These responsibilities were recently
realigned, with BDC taking over the capital investment responsibility, starting with this project, and some
of BMEB's staff. BMEB has been reconstituted as a corporation, and will assist BDC in the
implementation of the project, along with the design institutes which it had retained for design of the
- 24 -



sewerage components. In addition, BDC will retain a team of engineering advisors and supervisors,
financed under the project, to help the implementation of the investment as well as upgrading of its
operation and maintenance programs and skills.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Agencies responsible for preparation and implementation of individual components are listed in
Section C.3. They have either sufficient prior experience, or in the case of the newly established SJET and
HECC, are attached to parent institutions which have strong relevant experiences and skills. In all cases,
however, their further institutional and technical development is one of the major goals and activities of the
project.
b. Project management:
The project will be coordinated on a day-to-day basis by BEPO, an office that has competently
managed the Bank-financed BEP I as well as a similar project financed by ADB. Maintenance of adequate
staffing would be a continuing issue to monitor as the Office has a small staff. It would be guided by a
Leading Group chaired by the Executive Vice Mayor and includes two other Vice Mayors of Beijing as
members. This in tum reports to the Municipal Leading Group for environmental improvement, chaired by
the Mayor. The composition of these leading groups indicate an unusually high degree of attention of the
senior leadership to the city's environmental improvement.
c. Procurement Issues:
A Procurement Capacity Assessment (PCA) was carried out by the Bank on all of the procurement
and executing agencies to be involved in this project and concluded that there are no major issues.
Procurement under the project will be carried out with the assistance of the International Tendering
Company (ITC) of the China Technology Import & Export Corporation, which is one of the state-approved
and controlled international tendering companies which are certified by the central government as being
proficient in intemational procurement. The ITC also was the procurement agency for the first Beijing
Project, financed by the Bank, and is the tendering company for the ongoing ADB project.
The PCA determined that while BDC has the experience and capacity to satisfactorily conduct the
procurement required in this project, the procurement units of Shihuan-Jietian and the EPB will receive
adequate assistance from experienced PMO staff for procurement, and the ITC will provide additional
procurement training to all three agencies. All procurement in the project will be carried out in accordance
with World Bank guidelines. The PCA concluded that there are no unusual features in this project which
could give rise to concern with respect to procurement matters, and considering the record of procurement
implementation and management in China and in Beijing Municipality, the risks on this project are
considered to be average. The enactment of the national procurement law, effective from January 1, 2000,
should serve to further reinforce this conclusion.
d. Financial Management and Disbursement
The detailed analysis and assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management system
is shown in "Financial Management System Assessment Summary" attached as Annex 13. The results of
the Review and corresponding Action Plan to address measures needed to improve capacities are included
in Attachment 1 of the Review. The Review has concluded that this project meets minimum Bank financial
management requirements. The project will be utilizing traditional disbursement procedures rather than the
- 25 -



PMR-based disbursement system. The status of the borrower's and the project implementing entities'
compliance with audit covenants in existing Bank-financed projects is satisfactory. The auditors issued an
unqualified opinion and no major outstanding issues exist with the prior project, Beijing Environment
Project, with the exception of delay in counterpart funding. Details regarding agreements reached with the
borrower on standards and formats for audited financial statements and timetable for their submission are
shown in "Review" Section V for Internal Controls and Section VII Project Reporting Requirements.
5. Social:
5.1    The project benefits will be broadly distributed across income levels and areas. Heating boiler
conversion and energy conservation would directly impact the ambient air quality at the ground level, rather
than such controls in industrial installations whose effects would have less direct impacts on residents of
the city. While the subjective benefit of improved air quality is in general likely to be proportional to
income levels, it is also crucial to persons without the protection of climate control systems. Similarly,
wastewater management would have a particularly beneficial effects on farmers and residents in the
outskirts of the city as well as further downstream who rely on surface and ground water sources for
farming as well as washing and recreation.
5.2    The cost of the project would also be distributed without specific regard to income levels.
Wastewater tariffs are levied in linear proportion to water usage, which is relatively inelastic with respect
to income. Due to relatively low wastewater tariffs, they are not likely to take more than 0.5% of household
income even at the lowest income levels even with the large planned tariff increases. For boiler conversion,
it is important to note most of the conversion would be done by institutions and companies that operate
scattered boilers to heat their own business premises and some employee housing, although there are
buildings that have resident tenants. The majority of residential complexes where diverse tenants live,
however, are heated by heat supply companies that operate district heating boiler houses most of which are
larger than the conversion targets. These tenants would see little change in their heating bills. In other
words, the financial burden of boiler conversion is weighed heavily on corporate or institutional entities
than individuals. Among those affected, the major issue is the willingness to convert, given the contrast
between the dispersed benefits and the seemingly selective burdens in the initial stage when few boilers are
converted.
5.3    Land acquisition and resettlement. All of the land acquisition and resettlement for this project is
related to the Wastewater Management component. No minority issues have been identified. During
project preparation, measures have been taken to reduce resettlement as much as possible. A Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the national standards and the
Bank's policies. The final report was received in March 2000, reviewed and approved by the Bank, and
copies were deposited in the PIC. The RAP states that the project will affect about 1840 households,
6,586 persons, 345 enterprises and 5,475 staff. The total land area to be acquired permanently is about
1,255 mu (83.7 hectares) and the total number of people to be moved is 2,555. The RAP cites the legal
framework for its preparation, the types and levels of compensation to be paid, the appropriate processes
and procedures needed to implement the RAP, and a schedule for carnying out the work. The total
estimated cost of the program is about $303.3 M.
5.4    Labor for Coal Boilers. The main financial cost of scattered boilers for their owners is labor cost.
China's rapidly increasing urban wages are making the older scattered boilers obsolete, in favor of newer
and more efficient boilers. The labor savings, whether by gas boilers or by more efficient coal boilers,
would imply reduced demand for manual labor to handle coal and ash. Coal boiler operators currently fill
the labor need, which is seasonal and arduous, by pressing their own staff into duty on rotation, or by
recruiting farmers from outside the city looking for off-season jobs, and in many cases both. The
conversion to automatic gas boilers would worsen labor surplus issues for many of the enterprises and
- 26 -



reduce off-season job opportunities for farmers outside the city. Some 2200 boilers to be converted under
the project could involve an order of magnitude of about 5,000 full-time equivalent of such labor, or nearly
0.1% of total employment in Beijing. Some or all of the lost job opportunities would be replaced by new
jobs generated by increased economic investment following the environmental improvement. Neither the
jobs lost or gained could not be estimated with confidence due to the diversity of situations. Specific
safeguard policies cannot be applied as there are no specific groups of people who would be laid off. BMG
would however continue to monitored the employment impact, especially that for poor laborers, and
provide them with the usual job placement and social protection services.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: A (Full Assessment)
A comprehensive environmental assessment has been carried out for the project by the Beijing
Municipal Research Institute of Environmental Protection in accordance with the policies and procedures
of China and the Bank. The detailed EA reports and a summary EA report, each incorporating Bank
comments, have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory.
The environmental impact of the project is very positive overall and the benefits far outweigh the
limited negative impacts. The air quality improvement component involving fuel switching from coal to
gas and use of more efficient boiler technologies will significantly reduce concentrations of S02, NOx,
TSP and CO and improve the ambient air visibility within the target areas (inside 4th Ring Road and
Shijingshan District). The wastewater management component in the Qing and Liangshui River basins will
reduce pollution of watercourses resulting in improved water quality, removal of nuisance from odors,
reduced health hazards and improved environment for economic development. The projected reduction in
untreated sewage entering the groundwater in the Liangshui catchment will assist in improving the quality
of aquifers from which water is being withdrawn for drinking water supply in Beijing. Significant potential
impacts will occur during construction, including excavation, dust, noise, spoil disposal, and disruptions of
urban services. The EA reports include an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The detailed EA
reports and EA summary report were sent to the Bank's Public Information Center in February 2000 and
copies are in the project files. These documents also have been available to the public in Beijing. The
details of the consultations and discussions during EA and RAP preparation are provided in Tables 2 and 3
in Annex 12.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Project benefits are distributed broadly, but as the economic analysis indicates, primary
beneficiaries of wastewater management components are the residents and institutions in the Liangshui and
Qing River basins. Public consultations have been held in the form of public hearings in these areas as a
part of the EA process, as well as consultation with a panel of experts, all of which reportedly concluded
with overwhelming support for the project. To reduce the land acquisition and resettlement, and thereby
minimize adverse impacts and costs, much consideration has been given during the assessment of various
sewer alignment altematives. Residents of the areas identified for likely resettlement or land acquisition
were notified of the actions, consulted on compensation measures, as laid out in the resettlement
information booklet distributed to the affected population. The new resettlement regulation of BMG
provides full control of relocation decisions to the affected people and entities.
In the case of boiler conversion, beneficial impacts are extremely dispersed, whereas the financial
and implementation responsibilities appear limited to a relatively narrow groups of boilers as some 40% of
- 27 -



boilers (in terms of capacity) are not required to convert, and even among the scattered boilers, the
conversion will proceed gradually. In order to stimulate initial conversion, therefore, it would be useful to
combine strong public awareness campaigns focusing on small areas at a time, along with regulatory and
financial measures. The first line responsibility for issuing conversion orders and providing necessary
assistance lies with the District Governments, which have traditionally been responsible for grassroots
mobilization and administration. They will work with SJET, BGGC, and BPB to mobilize the necessary
assistance. After that, the decision to convert or improve boilers would be made by the boiler owners
themselves. Most of small and medium-sized boilers to be converted under the project are owned and
operated by entitites for their own use, to heat the work space or housing provided to their own employees.
In the latter case, heating cost is not borne by the tenants. Even though a housing reform program to sell
the majority of residential housing is now in progress, the practice of employer payment of heating tariffs is
being maintained, without a clear plan to transfer the responsibility. Consequently, the cost of conversion
would fall entirely on the boiler owners, and therefore the conversion is unlikely to take place in the case of
boilers owned by entities in financial difficulties.
Participation in the heating energy conservation programs will be on fully voluntary basis, except
that monitoring of boiler performances would be an enhanced version of the required inspection by BEPB
and RHAO. Many of the larger district heating boilers that would be the main target of the energy
conservation programs supply heat to offices, shops, and residential apartments on the basis of a flat tariff
proportional to the floor area. Financially, therefore, benefits of energy conservation would accrue entirely
on the heat providers. In the case of residential housing, the heating tariff is usually paid by the tenants'
employers either directly or through heating allowances given to the tenants. Without heat metering and the
transfer of responsibility for heating tariff payment, therefore, there would be relatively little incentive for
end-user level energy conservation. End-user energy conservation such as insulation would be more
relevant in the case of small and medium-sized boilers, using either coal or gas, that are operated to heat the
owner's own work premises or their employees' housing.
Groups that will benefit both commercially and technically from the air pollution control
components are technical specialists and industries involved with natural gas boilers, and other heat supply
systems. They will receive technical training and information from foreign consultants, as well as provide
inputs to them, and take contractual assignments from SJET and HECC. BMG and the Bank team
consulted with a large number of such institutions during project preparation. Most of the sector
institutions are expected to participate in the project implementation, with several institutions selected
competitively as consultants under the GEF-supported components.
b. Other key stakeholders:
As mentioned in Para 7. (a), public officials in the project areas participated in public hearings in
which the project proposals were described and discussed in detail, and feedback received from the officials
and citizens present, and this information was taken account of in the EA studies and recommendations
made for adjustments to designs. Officials of downstream counties have been informed of the project, as an
input to their water resource planning.
- 28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project investments will continue to produce environmental benefits into the future provided
that they are properly operated and maintained. The benefits, however, would be overwhelmed by the
growing pollution unless the pollution growth is restrained and such environmental facilities as built under
the project continue to be expanded. Policy, financial and institutional development measures would be
supported under the project to ensure the proper operation and expansion of the facilities, and that the
growth of pollution is controlled. The fuel conversion component, in particular, is aimed at creating
continuous momentum for market-based expansion. A major long-term constraint would be the supply of
clean fuels which would depend not only on proper sustainable pricing, but also on the central government'
s energy policy.
The GEF financed institutional strengthening activities for (i) improvement of EPB air quality
monitoring capacity; (ii) techincal capacity building and market development for gas boilers and (iii) energy
conservation will contribute to the sustainability of air pollution control and energy conservation initiatives
in Beijing.
Institutional support for restructuring Beijing Drainage Company through upgrading management
systems, providing greater flexibility in setting appropriate tariffs, and staff development in parallel with
outside monitoring would aim at assuring the sustainability of the sewerage/drainage system and
wastewater treatment plants.
- 29 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Ri0 RisX Ratiil                        _      R 0il- Minlmiiatln EeaWsur
From Outputs to Objective
Growth of air pollution and carbon          N        BMG program to control other emission
emissions outpacing reduction by boiler              sources; improving air quality information and
conversion and energy efficiency                     management
Effect of boiler conversion limited due to  S         Regulatory and financial support by BMG and
slow conversion of other boilers                      central government; gas boiler market and
technology development actions
Facilities not operated properly due to     M         Technical and market efficiency improvement;
weak financial and technical capacity                 Financial and institutional strengthening
components and covenants
Growth of wastewater discharges in the      S        National and municipal programs to strengthen
Liangshui and Qing River systems and                  control of wastewater discharges
upstream outpaces treatment capacity
From Components to Outputs
Boiler conversion delayed or limited due    H         financial and regulatory measures to encourage
to insufficient demand                                conversion; market and technology development
measures (GEF-financed) to promote
conversion, reduce cost and ease technical
constraints
Boiler conversion delayed due to            S         Establishment of SJET, technical and marketing
insufficient capacity or incentives                   support (GEF-financed), pricing terms that
for implementing agencies, or fiscally                balance incentives.
costly due to failure to recover cost
New facilities poorly designed or           M         Review of designs and provision of high quality
constructed                                          implementation suport and supervision
Sewerage construction delayed due           S        Ensure realistic financing and resettlement
to counterpart financing or resettlement              plans, proper and speedy compensation and
bottlenecks                                          resettlement
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There have been no major potential controversies under the project identified.
G. Main Loan and Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Execution of subsidiary loan agreements by BMG with SJET and BDC, satisfactory to the Bank;
* Finalization of SJET's Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank; and
- 30 -



*  Execution of a subsidiary grant agreement between BMG and SJET, satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Assurances have been obtained from BMG that it will carry out the following or cause them to be carried
out:
Project Implementation
*  Maintain the Beijing Environment Project Leading Group and Office with composition, staffing,
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
*  Make available the loan proceeds to BDC, SJET, and EPB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
*  Make available the GEF grant proceeds to SJET and HECC for implementation of programs to remove
barriers to gas market development and heating energy conservation as agreed with the Bank.
*  Make available or assist to obtain counterpart financing required for implementation of the project.
* As a part of the subsidiary loan agreement with SJET, cause District Governments, BEPB, and BGGC
to promptly provide administrative, regulatory, and technical inputs necessary to encourage and assist
conversion of coal-fired boilers to cleaner fuel.
*  Boiler conversions are to be carried out by SJET in accordance with the criteria, procedures and terms
and conditions specified in the Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank.
Institutional Development of BDC
-  Maintain a task force, reporting to the Environmental Project Leading Group, to oversee the
restructuring the sewerage services with composition and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank until
replaced by a supervisory authority forming a part of the restructured institutional framework.
*  Cause BDC to retain consultants to provide advisory services to plan and design institutional
development of BDC and to assist implementation of the wastewater works, by November 30, 2000.
* Carry out the institutional development plan to constitute BDC as an autonomous enterprise with the
governance structure as specified in the Company Law, including a Board of Directors and a Board of
Supervisors, the full autonomy to retain and dispose of all sewerage tarriffs, and ownership of and
responsibility for all sewerage and drainage facilities in the Beijing urban districts, and begin
implementing the plan by December 31, 2001.
Financial Performance
*  Allow SJET to sell natural gas boiler equipment at prices and installment terms that would cover all
reasonable expenses it incurs for the sale and instalLment, including the cost of equipment,
transportation, insurance, management, all financing expenses, as well as reasonable provision for bad
debts and profits.
*  As a part of the subsidiary loan agreement, cause SJET to produce, by March 31 each year starting
from 2002, a projection of its balance sheet and cash flow statements in the next two years and have
them reviewed by BMG and the Bank to identify actions necessary to meet the above objectives;
*  Cause BDC to generate revenues from wastewater and drainage operations sufficient to cover current
operational expenses and depreciation charges or debt service payments, whichever is greater; and
*   Cause BDC to produce, by September 30 each year, a projection of its finances in the next two years
and have them reviewed by BMG and the Bank to identify actions necessary to meet the above
fnancial performance objectives.
Safeguards
*  Cause project implementing agencies to carry out environmental impact mitigation measures specified
in the Environment Assessment of the project and land acquisition and resettlement in accordance with
the Resettlement Action Plan.
- 31 -



Financial Management
*   Cause implementing agencies to prepare the following annual fnancial reports and submit to the Bank
the financial reports, audited by an auditor satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after the end of
the fiscal year, commencing with fiscal year 2000: (i) project accounts by component maintained by
BEPO; (ii) Special Accounts; (iii) statements of expenditures (SOEs); (iv) financial statements of
BDC; and (v) financial statements of SJET (starting from its 2000-01 fiscal year).
Monitoring and Reporting
*   Cause BEPO to send consolidated semi-annual progress reports to the Bank by February 15 and
August 15 each year starting from February 15, 2001 in a format satisfactory to the Bank including a
summary of implementation progress by component, financial expenditures by component, resettlement
actions, monitoring indicators, and other information requested by the Bank.
* Carry out with the Bank a mid-term review by December 31, 2002 or an alternative date to be agreed
upon, and carry out actions agreed upon to enhance the project implementation.
H. Readiness for Implementation
ER 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
li 1. b) Not applicable.
I 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Finalization of Financial Management Manual and its distribution to all project staff;
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Li 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
./9  ~~~- - -----
IA' Songsu Choi                        Keshav Varma                            Huang
v    Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 32 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
KeY Peorae
Hierarchyof  0                   ndivaors  Monitorfig &Eyaluatlorr    CritC                   mpt s
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Safeguarding the environment N/A                      Annual and Special Reports of sound economic management
the State Environmental    and growth
Protection Administration
Cost-effective and sustained                          Same as above               Control of other GHG sources
reduction of green house gases
(Global environmental
objective)
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improve ambient air quality of Ambient concentrations of    Readings from monitoring    Adequate health care system
Beijing area               major pollutants           stations
Decrease carbon emission to   Carbon dioxide released from  Estimation based on fuel use  Control of other greenhouse
the global environment     heating systems            and efficiency data         gases
(Global Environmental
Objective)
Protect surface and ground    Concentration of major  Sample analysis             Water pollution does not
water quality in Beijing and   pollutants (COD, BOD,                              increase elsewhere in the
downstream                 N03-N)                                                 Haihe basin
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Reduced use of coal for    Coal consumption for heating public utility bureau data  Control of pollution and
heating (GEF-supported)                                                           carbon release from other
sources
Large and more efficient gas  costs of gas boilers, services,  project progress reports and   Pricing and regulation to even
boiler market and technical   and operation           monitoring data            the playing field between coal
capacity (GEF-supported)                                                          and gas
Improved energy efficiency for Fuel consumption per heated  boiler operating statistics and  Control of pollution and
heating systems and        area                       sample monitoring           carbon release from other
remaining coal boilers                                                            sources
(GEF-supported)
Reduced pollutant emissions  Emissions from heating   compliance reports, sample   Control of pollution from
from heating (GEF-supported) boilers                  monitoring data             other sources
Improved air quality       quality and timeliness of air  EPB management reports    the system to use the
information and management quality data and analysis,                             information is improved
(GEF-supported)            regulatory responses
Wastewater interception and  Treated wastewater volume   Operational reports      discharges in the sub-basin
treatment in Liangshui and    and quality                                         and upstream do not surge
Qing River systems
Expanded financial and     cost per wastewater collected  Operating and financial  utilization of improved
technical capacity of Beijing   and treated, operating cash   reports             financial and technical
Drainage Company           flow                                                   resources to improve services
and efficiency
- 33 -



Project ComponentS/        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:            (from ComponentS to
Sub-componentS:            component)                                              OutputS)
Conversion of medium-sized  Number and capacity of     progress reports            Sufficient demand for
coal-fired heating boilers to   natural gas boilers installed                      conversion; conversion outside
natural gas (GEF-supported)  (loan: $165 M)                                        the project; control of new
coal boilers; minimize costs to
the boiler owners and
government
Gas boiler market and      Technical documents, pilot   progress reports and technical Absorptive capacity by
technology development     boilers, conversion assisted,   documents              industries and specialists
(GEF-supported)            personnel trained (grant $16.5
M)
Heating energy efficiency  Technical documents, pilot   progress reports and technical Heat and energy pricing that
promotion (GEF-supported)   projects, modification assisted, documents             makes conservation valuable
personnel trained (grant: $8.5
M)
Air quality monitoring and    Consultant reports, MIS and  progress reports        quality of consultants and
decision support           GIS systems installed, staff                            counterpart staff, proper use of
trained, monitoring and                                the studies and equipment
analytical equipment (loan
$3.3 M)
Liangshui River sewerage    length of sewers and capacity  progress reports        proper design, construction,
of sewage treatment installed                          operation and maintenance
(loan $152 M)
Qing River Sewers          length of interceptors built   progress reports         proper design, construction,
(loan $20 M)                                           operation and maintenance;
timely construction of the
sewage treatment plant
Beijing Drainage Company    staff-months of studies and    progress reports        quality, relevance and use of
Development                training; equipment procured                            TA and equipment
(loan $5.6 M)
- 34 -



Annex 2: Project Description
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
Geography of Beijing: Beijing, the capital of People's Republic of China and its second largest city, is
located in the northeastern part of China, in the Huabei Great Plain. Temperatures range from - 16 C to 38
C and the average annual precipitation is 625 mm, concentrated in June-August. Beijing Municipality, one
of four municipalities in China reporting directly to the central government, comprises 18 districts and
counties, with eight of the districts fully urban and the others rapidly becoming urbanized. It covers an
area of 16,800 kmi, of which 1,040 km are under an "urban planning area" where nearly two thirds of the
population and three quarters of energy consumption are concentrated. The permanent resident population
of the municipality is about 12.3 million, of which about 7.4 million are formally classified as
non-agricultural population. In addition, there is a so-called "temporary" population estimated around 2.5
million people most of whom are in effect long-term residents of the city. Gross municipal product in 1998
was Yuan 201 billion, 96% non-agricultural. Building floor space in the city total about 200 million m.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$488.13 million
Conversion of Medium-sized Heating Boilers from Coal to Natural Gas
1.1    Heating Fuel Conversion Program. Heating in Beijing is provided largely by coal, via city-wide
district heating (16%), local district heating (22%), and scattered boilers for the remainder. Scattered
heating boilers with medium capacity between 1 and 10 tph are estimated to number about 9200 within the
Smoke-Control Area (SCA), which includes areas within the Fourth Ring Road and the Shijingshan
District, encompassing most of the Beijing urban area. There are tens of thousands of smaller boilers and
heating or cooking stoves. Use of coal and the lack of pollution control devices in these small and
medium-sized devices have been responsible for some 80% of critical air pollution during the heating
season as discussed in Section B. Under BMG's new clean air initiatives and with BMG's partial financial
assistance, the majority of the smallest stoves and boilers have already been converted to cleaner fuels such
as natural gas, town gas, LPG, oil, and eletricity and most of them are expected to be converted by the end
of 2000.
1.2    Despite the strong promotion to convert the larger heating boilers since 1998, however, only about
700 medium-sized heating boilers have been converted by the end of 1999. Major apparent reasons include
difficulties in fnancing the large investment required, and the lack of market and technical capacities to
generate and respond to demand for natural gas boilers. The central government has allocated funds to
convert boilers belonging to its units, estimated to number about 1,300, by 2001 and the most affluent
owners of another 2000 boilers are expected to convert without external support. This still leaves about
5,200 boilers which would require extraordinary measures to require and support conversion. Of these,
estimated 3,700 - 4,200 have or will have access to natural gas by 2002. The purpose of the component is
to provide the financial and technical support to convert these boilers.
1.3   Institutional Responsibilities. In other countries, such conversion took decades, promoted mainly
by natural gas companies. Having invested heavily in natural gas pipeline and delivery network, BMG also
has a strong financial interest in promoting conversion but has not been able to do so due partly to
institutional fragmentation. In Beijing, numerous entities were involved in various aspects of gas delivery.
These were combined into a Beijing Gas Group Corporation (BGGC) in 1999 to improve the efficiency and
accountability, but still in its establishment phase, it is not in position to devote full attention to a new,
uncertain venture of boiler conversion. BMG therefore entrusted the Beijing Comprehensive Investment
- 35 -



Company (BCIC), a diversified company involved in various industrial and commercial joint ventures, to
take the lead in bringing about rapid boiler conversion. In turn, it has established the Shihuan Jietian
Energy Technology Company (SJET) as a limited company in partnership with BGGC (30% of stake) and
the Yuanshan Energy Management Company (10%). The latter was established in 1996 with GEF and
Bank support as a commercial venture to offer energy conservation services to industrial customers.
1.4   Eight District Governments under BMG have the primary administrative responsibility to assist
and ensure conversion of coal-fired boilers and stoves under the overall fuel conversion programs, with
necessary regulatory and technical supports from BEPB and BGGC. These responsibilities will continue,
and SJETs function is to market the gas boilers on a commercial basis. To overcome the barriers to
conversion and hence to its sales, SJET will work with these agencies in identifying and assisting the
buyers of its boilers.
1.5   The Project. With the Bank loan, SJET would import natural gas boilers and associated equipment
and sell them on installment over up to 18 years. Under the common boiler house configuration, the
imported equipment takes up about a third of the total cost of conversion, and the Bank loan of $165 M
(net of front-end and commitment charges) would finance the conversion of 2000-2500 scattered
medium-sized coal-fired heating boilers of 1-10 tph capacity (average 3.2 tph). These represent about a
third of medium-sized heating boilers that have access to natural gas within the Smoke-control area, and
about 60% of those that are extimated to require and afford installment financing. SJET has identified and
obtained basic information on 2,621 such boilers within the Smoke-Control Area but outside the first
Coal-Free Zone (CFZ). These include some 670 boilers owned by entities fully or partly funded by BMG
or district government budgets. The eventual number of boilers financed under the project would depend
upon the size mix of boilers, extent of equipment provided (from a full complement of heating equipment to
just a natural gas burner core), and actual prices that are expected to decline during the project.
1.5   Terms. Although SJET would manage the operation as an autonomous enterprise, its pricing and
installment terms would be subject to agreement with BMG in return for the concession for utilizing the
Bank loan and for supplying boilers to units belonging to BMG and DG. Initial terms of the boiler sales
would include the following:
*   Scope of sales: Natural gas burners, boilers and essential associated equipment, needed to convert
coal-fired boilers between 1 and 10 tph, within the SCA or within 2 km of SCA.
* Price: the price of the equipment to SJET (wholesale price) plus 2% for the first 1000 converters
(expected to be reached by the end of 2002) and 5% for those converting later.
* Down payment: additional 5.5% of the wholesale price paid on signing the sales contract, which
will be before SJET signs contract with boiler suppliers.
* Financing charge: the same rate as the World Bank loan for BMG and DG units; the same plus up
to 2% per annum for others depending upon credit rating by SJET.
* Installment: in equal installments over a period, at the buyer's choice, up to one year less than the
remaining maturity of the Bank loan (in practice 12-18 years depending upon the year of sales) in
the case of BMG and DG units; up to 12 years for others as agreed between buyer and SJET.
*   Grace period: None, unless at a charge specifically agreed by SJET.
* Ownership of the equipment sold would be transferred to the buyer upon installation and
satisfactory testing.
* Security: BMG guaranty for units fully funded under BMG budget; real estate or other assets
required as collateral in addition to or in lieu of third party guarantees for others.
1.6    Associated Services. Along with the equipment, SJET will provide the buyers with the following
services, part of which would be financed with GEF grant (see below):
- 36 -



*   Conversion pre-feasibility analysis: including identification of technical options, preliminary
estimation of their costs, provision of various technical documents relevant to technical and
financial planning, including list of qualified technical consultants and contractors for detailed
planning and installation;
*   Review of conversion design and financing plan;
*   Inspection of installation and testing;
*   Provision of operating manual and training to boiler operators;
*   Warranty services for two seasons or 18 months (including parts warranty provided by
manufacturer);
*   Evaluation of boiler operation, advice for maintenance and operational improvement and assistance
to obtain necessary services - free for the first two years for boilers installed by 2002, one year for
others.
1.7   Pavment Risks and Securitv. The installment payment would be added to the natural gas bill and
collected by BGGC, which will transfer the receipt minus a commission of 0.5% to SJET each month. The
arrears on the gas bills have been about 10% in the recent past, but this may well go up as the usage
expands beyond the early, more affluent converters. SJET therefore would screen the buyers' credit risk
and require various securities. Major criteria for appraising the buyer's credit would be: the current
liquidity and heating expenses, as well as the quality of collateral and guarantees. Based on these, buyers
would be assessed one of five credit risks, which will affect the pricing and installment terms. Details of
the criteria and procedures are provided in the Customers Assessment Manual in the project files. The
current estimation is that there are about 350 boilers that belong directly to BMG units, and about the same
number owned by DG units or those partly funded by BMG or DG, such as hospitals and research
institutions. The former present little credit risk as BMG guarantee can be enforced at the point of SJETs
repayment of the Bank loan. Others present a higher risk as guarantees can be difficult enforce. Collateral
would be therefore required from these units even with BMG or DG guarantees, as well as all
non-governmental buyers. Collaterals include land use rights, buildings, machinery and equipment,
vehicles, receivables, etc. The collaterals would be registered as mortgages. SJET may refuse to provide
the gas boiler to any unit that does not meet its credit and security criteria.
1.8    Market Demand. In practice, however, the more serious risk would be a lack of sufficient demand,
given the barriers discussed in Section B.3, the burden of large counterpart financing (about two thirds of
the total cost), and the cost of the Bank loan which is, on simple comparison, higher than domestic
commercial loans though it provides much longer maturities. SJET is encouraged by the incentives built in
the pricing structure as well as BMG to adopt an aggressive rather than cautious sales strategy. Under the
sales terms described above, SJET would maximize its profit by maximizing the volume and speed of
boiler sales and by minimizing its administrative and sales expenses, and collection losses. Financial
analyses (Annex 5) show that the terms would provide a room for up to 5% in collection losses from
non-governmental buyers. Market development measures financed by GEF would aid in promoting the
market demand. In order to encourage conversion during the early years when the market barriers would
remain especially strong, BMG would provide counterpart financing resources for its own units to convert
within the first two years. For others, BMG would allocate Y 32 million to provide a subsidy of Y 150,000
for needy boiler owners converting in 2000, Y 100,000 in 2001, Y 50,000 in 2002, and none thereafter.
- 37 -



1.9   In general, the market and the program are both too novel to design the implementation with great
certainty. Therefore, the major elements of the component would be evaluated and if necessary adjusted on
the basis of evaluation of two full years of operation, if not sooner. The purpose of the adjustment would
be to balance BMG's objective of maximizing conversion and SJET's interest in maximizing profit. SJET
would be allowed to enter other businesses as long as they are strictly separated for accounting purposes
and not in conflict with the operations supported by the Bank and GEF. Organized cooperative
procurement of this magnitude and market and technical efficiency improvements achieved with the GEF
financing are expected to result in considerable reduction in the price of the equipment and technical
services. The reduction in capital costs, reduction in operating costs due to increased skills to operate
them, and the increasing acceptance would make the conversion easier in later years. The project target of
2175 boilers assumes a reduction of these costs by 30% in real tenns over the project period, that would
bring these prices roughly in line with those in the interrnational market, but no change in other locally
produced goods. These market development benefits would be shared by other, over 4000 boilers to be
converted in Beijing which will not be directly financed under the project as well as future buyers of gas
boilers in Beijing and elsewhere in China.
Project Component 2 - US$33.13 million
Gas Boiler Market and Technology Development (GEF Grant $16.5 M)
2.1 Goals and Scope. In conjunction with its main business of boiler distribution, SJET will carry out
various activities to develop industry-wide technical capacity and efficiency, to remove market information
gaps, to facilitate and aggregate market demands, to reduce excess costs incurred by early converters, and
to structurally reduce the costs of gas boiler equipment and services. The activities can be classified by
technical focus, or by the mode of delivery - developing technical models, their demonstration, training and
other dissemination, and assisting customers to implement the efficient conversion and operation. Each of
the activities described below have primary targets on specific barriers, but they are complementary to each
other as the barriers are closely interrelated.
A. Development of Technical Models and Capacity (Estimated grant - $3.3 M). In order to establish best
practice models and technical capacity for natural gas boiler configuration, installation and services, SJET
will engage consultants to carny out the following:
(a)    Best practices of gas boiler svstem configuration. On the basis of evaluation of international best
practices and current Chinese coal boiler practices, the consultants will develop model
specifications of gas boilers individually and as a system, as well as conversion paths that are
economically and technically most efficient. This is expected to yield recommendations different
from simple one-to-one replacement of coal-fired boilers with gas boilers or standard international
practices. For example, the model specifications would include: optimal siting of boilers, likely to
be more dispersed compared with coal boilers; optimal capacity, to take advantage of spontaneous
variability of gas intake; optimal control settings under the current heat distribution system which
cannot be replaced in the short term. The consultants will also identify optimal sequences of
equipment replacement, ranging from burners to heat exchangers, when wholesale replacement is
not feasible.
(b)    Best operating practices. A review of existing gas boiler operations indicates that operating and
maintenance expenditures are significantly higher than necessary for the largely automated gas
boilers, though lower than coal boilers. The consultants will recommend efficient operating and
maintenance schedules and procedures.
- 38 -



(c)    Advanced technologies. Consultants will evaluate various advanced technology options such as:
high efficiency condensing boiler sections as additions to standard gas boilers, advanced water
treatment systems, improved boiler automation for operation at low load and varying load levels,
radiant zone heating, and low NOx burners. Their financial and technical feasibility would be
evaluated and implementation protocols recommended.
(d)    Best heat distribution practices. A substantial part of heat loss occurs in the delivery of heat from
boilers to end-users. While a broad improvement of heat delivery systems would be a focus of the
energy conservation component led by HECC, it would be efficient for SJET to assist in improving
the heat delivery system in conjuction with its diagnostic and advisory services for gas boiler
installation and operation. Therefore SJET's consultants would work with HECC to recommend
best practice models for heat distribution out of gas boilers.
(e)    Industrv outreach and capacitv building. The consultants will carry out industry analysis,
documentation, and training to help encourage and improve the local manufacture and assembly of
cost effective boilers and ancillary equipment, and efficient services for installation and
maintenance of the boilers, instrumentation, and ancillary equipment. SJET will cooperate with
technical institutions to set up a program to test local goods and services that do not yet have
established track record. SJET will provide its gas boiler buyers a long list of these and other
established manufacturers and service companies to facilitate their competitive participation in the
conversion program.
(f)    Specialist training. SJET consultants will carry out, in cooperation with technical institutes and/or
a university, to provide training in technical requirements specific to gas boilers for thermal,
mechanical, and electrical engineers. The training would be given first to technical specialists
SJET would hire as individual consultants, but would eventually serve all qualified specialists on a
first-come, first-served basis. GEF financing will be utilized for preparation of course curricula
tailored to different specialization and levels of educational background, technical documents, and
laboratory instruments. It will also support an in-depth training of 2-6 months overseas for about
6 selected specialists who would later act as local trainers, and short (3-6 week) study tours by up
to 15 industry personnel. Another set of training will be offered to gas boiler operators in
operation and maintenance of gas boilers.
B. Marketing and Support for Conversion (estimated grant $5.9 M). In order to reduce the infornation
gap and the cost to early converters, the following activities would be carried out:
(a)    Marketing and information campaigns. Targeted at the broad public, the consultants would
prepare and provide informational leaflets, advertising boards, media spots, and information desks
at district government offices to emphasize the environmental benefits and technical and financial
feasibility of the conversion, so as to inform coal fired boiler owners of the assistance available and
mobilize public pressure for conversion.
(b)    Boiler survey and individual marketing evaluation. This would involve boiler surveys and
pre-feasibility level analysis of technical and financial options for conversion of around 3500
boilers, by trained sales engineers and financial analysts.
(c)    Market aggregation and procurement management. Based on the above, boiler requirements would
be identified and grouped into a small number of most economical standard types broadly available
in the world market. The consultants will help to prepare technical specifications and contractual
terms that best meet technical and financial objectives, as well as ensuring competitive
- 39 -



procurement. Trips to major gas boiler markets by a team of about five procurement managers
would be supported, to investigate the market conditions and procurement experiences. Feedback
from the procurement process, boiler installation, and initial operation will be used to refine the
specifications and contract terms for boilers procured in year 2001, and onwards.
(d)    Installation and operation assistance. As a natural extension of the above activities, SJET
consultants would advise the gas boiler customers on various technical and financing options for
conversion as well as desirable modifications in the heat delivery systems, information on best
practice models, and a list of available technical institutes for detailed technical work and
installation contractors. They will also assist in supervision of installation; and provide initial
training in its operation and maintenance. Further, the SJET technical team would also monitor
and evaluate the operation of the installed gas boilers and provide free consultation, trouble
shooting, and referral for the first three seasons of operation for boilers converted during the
project period.
C. Pilot and Training Installations (estimated grant $7.3 M). To experiment with and demonstrate various
best practice models and to train technical specialists and operators, and hence to help strengthen technical
capacity, reduce information gap and technical risk. All demonstration boilers and their operating records
would be used as case materials in the technology and market development activities.
(a)    Full-time training and demonstration boilers. SJET will cooperate with a technical institute to
operate a full range of gas boilers and heat delivery systems, including experimental equipment, for
training and demonstration purposes year-round. Low-cost conversion altematives such as
replacing only the gas burner and other essential accessories would also be experimented and
demonstrated. In order to save cost and to operate these with full real load, SJET will contract with
a large boiler house which will pay for installation of the equipment and offer a part of the building
for training purposes.
(b)    In-use demonstration boilers including advanced and distributed heating svstems. In cooperation
with district governments, SJET will provide about five boilers in each of the eight districts,
involving a representative range of boiler types including advanced pilot equipment, in return for
their use for demonstration and occasional training of boiler operators. Alternative configurations
of the boiler systems designed under the technology development (A (a) above) would be
demonstrated as they become available (starting from 2001). These would include a set of
dispersed gas boilers in each district replacing at least one larger coal boiler. For example, a 6-tph
coal boiler could be replaced by five gas boilers of 0.5-2.0 tph. Further, low-cost conversion
alternatives tested feasible under experiments, such as minimal conversion involving little more
than the burner, would also be demonstrated widely. The number of actual beneficiaries of the
demonstration program would depend upon the availability and acceptance of these alternative
technical solutions. In the case of distributed gas boilers, for example, the GEF support may be
limited to only one or a few of the smaller gas boilers for each of the larger coal boiler replaced,
increasing the number of beneficiaries.
The program would also support a pilot installation of about 40 household-size gas boilers for
individual houses and apartments in each district. For all in-use demonstration, only core
equipment would be financed under the GEF program, and ancillary equipment and installation
services would be financed by the owners.
2.2   Implementation Arrangements. SJET would manage the preparation and implementation of the
-40 -



component, including the hiring and management of international consultants and some 12 full-time
local engineers and financial analysts. The major part of the activities would be carried out,
however, in close cooperation with district governments and local consultants and contractors to
ensure industry-wide capacity building. Through competitive processes SJET will retain up to two
technical design institutes and a team of marketing experts. They in turn would hire field survey
and marketing teams to meet the occasional needs. For training and development activities SJET
would explore a partnership with a local university.
SJET would mobilize most of the required foreign consultant input, about 90 person-months (p/m),
through one contract awarded competitively by about September 2000. Other foreign consultants of up to
25 p/m needed for urgent work would be retained as individual hires. Most equipment financed with the
GEF grant (about $6 M) would be procured through ICB, including some that would be included in the
packages of boilers financed with the Bank loan. Minor goods (about $1 M) including office,
communication, and transportation equipment and miscellaneous training and documentation supplies
would be procured through shopping. In case savings are realized in program costs, the first priority of the
savings utilization would be toward increasing the in-use demonstration of alternatives featuring dispersed
boilers and lower-cost conversion. The component requires additional about $16.7 M financed by
beneficiaries, for related expenses such as ancillary goods, installation of demonstration boilers, and parts
of training expenses, procured through local commerical practices by beneficiaries themselves.
Project Component 3 - US$ 13.62 million
Heating Energy Conservation (GEF financing $8.50 M)
3.1    Background. BMG's new clean air program including the massive fuel conversion provides a
major occasion to step up heating energy conservation. For heat suppliers and users, the high cost of gas
increases the incentive for conservation. For the environment, the remaining coal-fired boilers represent a
major remaining source of pollution. Gas boilers and large coal-fired boilers are generally much more
efficient than the small and medium-sized coal boilers targeted for conversion under the current program,
but there is still a large room to reduce energy consumption and pollution by the remaining coal-fired
boilers. A survey of 457 district heating boilers in Beijing show that they need about 40 kg of coal to heat
a square meter of floor space, compared with the good practice standard of 26 kg/r achieved even with
some medium-sized boilers. The data indicate significant inefficiencies both in the boilers and heat delivery
systems.
3.2    Barriers to Energy Conservation. Progress in energy conservation has been slow especially in the
heating sector due mainly to the nature of sector. In cities of China heating has been generally provided as
a social necessity with little financial reward. Further, typical boiler houses are too small to justify
allocation of significant investment or highly trained manpower, although in aggregate the heating sector is
among the largest consumer of energy. As a result, energy conservation in the heating sector faces the
following major barriers:
(a)    Insufficient and scattered knowledge base. Because individual payoffs are small, there has been
relatively little systematic research to import or develop heating energy conservation technologies.
A few public agencies including the Ministry of Construction and Beijing's Residential Heating
Administration Office (RHAO) have been conducting some relevant research and promotion, but
not being their main mandate, these efforts have been limited and sporadic.
(b)    Lack of financial and human resources. Typical heating boilers get little more financial and
human resources than needed for routine operation, rarely having the high level technical resources
-41 -



and investment funds to cany out modifications.
(c)    Difficulty to identify and evaluate conservation options. As a natural result of weakness in both
source and receiver of technical knowledge, there is insufficient readily available inforrnation on
the range and details of conservation options. When they are available in the form of technical
description or actual examples, it is difficult to evaluate their technical and financial feasibility in
specific situations.
(d)    Risk. Without systematic information, the general perception is that many of the energy
conservation measures will not, in practice, provide any significant financial benefits and instead
waste the scarce capital resources available to the heating supply entities.
(e)    End User Motivation. Heat is generally paid for on the basis of area heated, and residential
heating charges are paid not by residents but by their employers. There is thus no incentive for the
end user to conserve energy. In addition, the single-pipe supply system used in most buildings does
not allow individual apartment temperature control. As a result, more than 10% of apartments
open windows to vent excess heat during winter.
3.3    Heating Energv Conservation Center. In order to overcome these barriers and promote a sustained
and systematic program of heating energy conservation, BMG would set up a Heating Energy Conservation
Center (HECC) attached to RHAO as the institutional focus of heating energy conservation efforts. HECC
would consist of six to eight full-time professional staff working with designated RHAO staff in its district
offices. The long-term role of HECC would be limited to setting standards, compile and disseminate
information, and otherwise encourage research and investment in heating energy conservation.
3.4    Objectives and Scope of the Component. The GEF-fmanced component would support the
establishment of the technical and institutional basis that would encourage sustained market-based energy
conservation in various elements of the heating systems. To this end, the component would finance the
following activities to help develop HECC, to help local professionals develop and acquire technical
knowledge, and to motivate local officials, consultants, contractors, heat suppliers and users in
conservation measures. While energy conservation in natural gas heating systems would fall under HECC'
s purview, most of the specific technical activities would be carried out under the Gas Boiler Market and
Technology Development component managed by SJET. HECC will draw on this work for its policy and
standard setting.
A. Best Practice Development and Promotion (Indicative grant allocation $1.5 M).
Consultants would evaluate and establish best practice models and standards for energy efficiency
in coal and other boilers, heat distribution systems, insulation, and other elements of the heating system.
Criteria and methodology to evaluate the feasibility of various conservation measures will be established.
These will be codified in technical manuals and disseminated to heat supply entities and technical
specialists. This work will be based on the following:
(a)   A detailed inventory of heating boilers that will remain coal fired in the medium to long term,
containing all relevant performance and financial information, updated annually.
(b)   A similar inventory of other heating boilers under the supervision of RHAO, and gas boiler best
practice models developed by SJET.
- 42 -



(c)   Comparative evaluation of the heating system performances to identify factors determining energy
efficiency.
(d)   Several specific measures for energy conservation in coal-fired boilers and heat distribution and
control systems developed by the Beijing Society of Environmental Science,
(e)   Measures developed under various national and local programs for improved insulation, heat
metering, and individual heat control.
(f)   International best practices.
(g)   Financial and technical feasibility analysis of various best practice measures and standards under
the circumstances in Beijing.
B. Energy Audits and Conservation Assistance ($2.0 M)
The Center will engage consultants and contractors to provide energy audit of heating systems, and
initial advice for technical and financial planning for modifications to conserve energy. Considering the
similar services provided initially by SJET to those installing gas boilers, HECC will aim to provide
detailed energy audits and analysis to about 600 heating systems over five years, simple audits to about
1000, and advisory services to about 600.
C. Pilot and Demonstration Installations ($3.1 M).
HECC will provide key equipment and design services for pilot installation of diverse energy
conservation measures developed under A above. These would include: varying levels of automation of coal
boilers, improved coal preparation and feeding, heat distribution system balancing valves, timed heat
delivery, high efficiency heat exchangers, insulation of heat pipes and windows, individual heat metering
and control, retrofitting of heat distribution and control arrangements within buildings. The target would
be to install all major modification examples represented and available for public inspection in each district.
Experiences of the pilot installations will be evaluated in detail, published in technical journals and public
information materials, and fed into refining best practice models. Selected measures that require public
policies and regulations will be recommended, including heating metering and control.
D. HECC Establishment and Promotion ($0.7 M)
Consultant assistance and equipment would be provided to help the establishment of HECC
including cooperating district RLHAO offices, preparation of its operating programs, and training of the
staff. The component would also include support for broad training and information dissemination to
sector professionals and the general public.
E. Energy and Environment Study ($1.2 M).
BEPB and HECC would manage a study and related training to improve the policy and
institutional frameworks for heating and energy supply, use, and pricing and air quality management. This
will include projection of various energy demands, their air quality implications, review of strategies for
market-based heat and energy supply and pricing, and design and compilation of stationary air pollution
source inventory. The last item would extend the pilot work at Xicheng district on the stationary emission
source database and management information system to other Beijing urban districts.
-43 -



3.5   Implementation Arrangements. Consistent with the long-tenn objectives of HECC and the
component, most of the work described above will be carried out by local consultants and contractors under
the management of HECC, except the study on energy and environmental management frameworks which
will be managed jointly with BEPB.
Most international consultants will be hired under two contracts to be awarded through competitive
proposal process by about December 2000: about 55 p/m for activities A through C above, and an
estimated 32 p/m for the energy and environment study. For preparatory assistance under activity D,
individual consultants will be retained according to the Bank procedures. About six national technical
institutions and companies, with different specialties, would be competitively selected to provide about 400
p/m of consultant input.
Some of the goods required for the component would be purchased in large quantities through ICB
procedures. These would include various control and power equipment for coal boilers and heat
distribution systems, heat meters and control valves, that would be installed for demonstration around the
districts. Others include a great variety of goods required for various vintages of boiler and heat
distribution equipment, a small number of various instruments, small quantities of office and transportation
equipment and software. These will be procured by international and local shopping.
Details of estimated costs are provided in Annex 3.
Project Component 4 - US$3.88 million
Air Quality Monitoring and Decision Support System Improvement
4.1    Monitoring System Upgrade. Additional monitoring equipment will be required to upgrade the
Beijing EPB's monitoring and analysis capabilities, both to extend the coverage of the existing monitoring
system, and the range of pollutants monitored following the issuance in 1996 of standards for PM 10
particulates. The project would support the equipment procurement required for the following (estimated
cost of $3.5 M):
(a) upgrading and renovation of five existing monitoring stations;
(b) establishment of five additional monitoring stations in the outer districts of Beijing.
(c) expansion of monitoring of electromagnetic radiation;
(d) various equipment to calibrate monitoring equipment and analyze gases and multipollutants.
4.2    Air Quality Management Decision Support System(estimated cost $0.4 M). The expanded
monitoring and computer network will provide the necessary sampling frequency and geographical
coverage to support a real-time air quality management decision support system. Further, various
monitoring programs related to heating energy and pollution in the 8 urban districts (supported under the
preceding components with GEF financing) would provide the necessary supplementary data on stationary
sources. The project would support technical assistance, software, and training to enhance the
organization, analysis, and use of the data. The study will include the establishment MIS/GIS and an
action program of measures to implement and integrate the EDSS into the operations of the BEPB, and
those other agencies concerned with air pollution in planning and environmental assessment.
Municipal Wastewater Mana2ement
Beijing's watercourses, which flow easterly, are part of the Hai River system, including the Juma,
Yongding, Beiyun, Chaobai and Juchuo Rivers. There are four major rivers (Tonghui, Liangshui, Qing
and Ba) and thirty-three major branches running through the city area with a total length of about 520 km
- 44 -



and catchment area of 1,238 km'. There are also 23 lakes within the city area, occupying 5.57 km .
Functions of rivers in the city include drainage, supply of water for industrial/agricultural use, and supply
of water to lakes around the city.
Water pollution in Beijing has reached a very high level, posing an increasingly serious threat to
the groundwater system which constitutes a major part of the city's drinking water sources. Crops and
soils also are being severely polluted due to irrigation practices using untreated wastewater. This has
caused considerable damage to the ecological environment and serious health concerns to the local
residents. The heavily polluted watercourses that pass through developed urban areas also cause serious
environmental impacts. In addition, many new industrial factories and residential buildings must discharge
wastewater directly into nearby river systems because of inadequate sewers and wastewater treatment
plants (WWTPs), causing severe pollution to the waterbodies and surrounding environment.
Beijing's total wastewater in 1996 was approximately 2,450,800 m /day comprising 1,382,200 m
/day from domestic sources and the rest from industries. Compared with 1995, this represents an increase
of about 183,000 m /day of domestic wastewater and a reduction of some 122,000 m /d of industrial
wastewater. Over the past ten years, wastewater quantities in Beijing have increased by about 1.7% per
year. The pollution load from wastewater in 1995 was: SS 59,800 tons; BOD, 46,600 tons, and COD
112,800 tons.
There are 14 existing sewage pumping stations in Beijing, with a total capacity of 330,000 m /day,
pumping sewage to either rivers or irrigation channels. There are about 2,625 km of existing sewers in
Beijing, of which about 900 km are storm sewers, about 900 km are combined sanitary sewer/storm
sewers, and about 825 km are sanitary sewers. The storm sewers service about 50% of the city area, and
are mostly located in the city center.
Since the 1980s, Beijing Municipality has constructed a large quantity of sewers and four WWTPs
on the downstream area of the city's drainage system, with a total treatment capacity of 1.085 million m
/day. This increased the city's sewerage coverage to about 40%, and mitigated pollution problems to some
extent. With the rapid growth of social and economic development and improvement of people's living
standards, nevertheless, pollution control and improving surface water quality in the city's river system
have become an increasingly important issue and a major focus of both Beijing Municipality and the central
government. The project would help address these concerns by significantly increasing the coverage of
wastewater collection and treatment. The wastewater management component includes construction of
three secondary WWTPs and major trunk sewers for the Liangshui River system, major trunk sewers
required to intecept and convey sewage to the more easterly reaches of the Qing River, institutional
restructuring and development of BDC, and related resettlement and land acquisition.
Project Component 5 - US$106.74 million
Liangshui River System Sewers
a.    Liangshui River South Bank Interceptor Sewer. The interceptor is approximately 10,950 meters
in length with a varying diameter of 1950 mm to 3000 mm, covering a catchment area of 2,535 ha.
b.    Xinkai Ditch sewer interceptor (upstream section). The total length of the sewer is about 4,840
meters with a diameter of 1000 mm to 1800 mm, covering a catchment area of 4910 ha.
C.     Songjiazhuang industrial area sewer. The sewer is about 2,750 meters long with diameters varying
-45 -



from 700 mm to 1400 mm, covering a catchment area of 1713 ha.
-46 -



d.    Fengcao River north bank sewer. The planned Fengcao River north bank sewer downstream
section is 1,500 meters long with the diameter of 1600 mm.
Project Component 6 - US$231.00 million
Liangshui River System Wastewater Treatment Plants
a.    Wujiacun WWTP. It is to have a secondary treatment process, including nutrient (P) reduction,
with a design capacity of 80,000 m /day, including 6.65 km sewer pipe and 1.5 km outlet pipe
totaling 8.15 km.
b.    Lugouqiao WWTP. It is to have a secondary treatment process with a design capacity of 200,000
m 3/day. Its incoming sewer interceptor is 8.79 km in length and outlet pipe is 0.5 km.
c.    Xiaohongmen WWTP. It is to have a secondary treatment process with a design capacity of
600,000 mr/day (ultimate capacity 900,000 m3/day. Its incoming sewer interceptor is 5.9 km and
outlet pipe is 0.9 kmn, with an overflow channelpipe of 1.0 km.
Project Component 7 - US$65.28 million
Qing River System Sewers
a.  Qing River north bank sewer interceptor. The sewer interceptor is located along the north bank of
Qinghe river in west-east orientation and then along Nanmafangxilu road northwards to the proposed
Qinghe WWTP. The serviced catchment area is 15,942 ha, and pipe diameter varies from 1050 mm
to 3000 mm over a total length of 10,200 meters.
b.  Xiaoyue River east bank sewer interceptor. The sewer interceptor runs along the eastem bank of
Xiaoyue River from south to the north, crossing the Qing River via a siphon before connecting to the
proposed Qing River sewer interceptor. Covered catchment area is 4,245 ha, and pipe diameter varies
from 1950 mm to 2400 mm over a total length of 6,200 meters.
c.  Party School East Sewer. The sewer runs in south-north orientation crossing the Qing River via a
siphon before connecting to the proposed Qing River sewer interceptor. The sewer size is 1400 mm in
diameter with a total length of 1,520 meters.
d.  Wanquan River sewer interceptor. The sewer runs in south-north orientation crossing Qing River via a
siphon before connecting to the proposed Qing River sewer interceptor. The sewer is 720 meters in
length.
e.  Tucheng Road Diversion Sewer. The diversion sewer runs along Qinghuananlu road to the north, and
then goes along Tucheng road from west to the east before connecting to the planned Xiaoyue River
east bank sewer interceptor. Covered catchment area is 1,827 ha, and pipe diameter varies from 1350
mm to 1950 mm over a total length of 5,505 meters.
f.  Chengfu Road Diversion Sewer. The diversion sewer runs along Chengfu Road eastward before
connecting to the planned Xiaoyue River east bank sewer interceptor. The covered catchment area is
650 ha and pipe diameter is 1350 mm over a total length of 1,900 meters.
-47 -



Project Component 8 - US$6.45 million
Beijing Drainage Company Institutional Strengthening, Implementation Support and Training
8.1    The Beijing Drainage Company was incorporated in December 1993 and formal operations
commenced in September 1995 during the implementation of the first Beijing Environment Project.
Although the change in legal status of the company from a government administrative unit to a government
enterprise following the Enterprise Law was beneficial in separating the accounts of BDC from its parent,
the authority for management of the overall company, especially the strong and independent wastewater
treatment plant facilities wasn't consolidated. Many of the assets BDC was to manage have not yet been
completed and therefore had not been transferred to BDC's ownership and management, and BDC had little
influence over tariffs and is unable to retain the revenues and manage them on its own, which would
improve its financial performance and accountability.
8.2   To build upon the institutional foundation developed under the first Beijing Environment Project,
an Institutional Development Plan (IDP) for Beijing Drainage Company was prepared by BDC and BMG
with the assistance and advice of international and local consultants during May-November 1999. The IDP
proposes changes to the internal structure, systems and management of BDC, and to the external
regulatory/oversight agencies responsible for BDC. BDC/BMG committment to the proposals laid out in
the IDP has been demonstrated by the fact that a number of the proposals were being implemented even as
the IDP was being drafted. The Bank has reached agreement with BMG to implement the findings of the
IDP, and in particular, three key actions towards BDC's independent accounting and management have
been agreed and included as dated covenants in the project legal agreements. The key recommendations of
the IDP which have been covenanted are:
a. Revenue Retention. BDC to retain all revenues collected from wastewater tariffs and upon
establishing an effective Board of Directors will have the authority to dispose of all revenues.
b. Transfer of Remaining Assets and Responsibility to Manage All Sewerage and Drainage Facilities.
BDC to take over control and responsibility for managing all sewerage and drainage facilities in
the urban districts including the transfer of remaining sewerage and pumping station assets.
c. Conversion to Corporate Structure. BDC to be converted to a limited liability state-owned
enterprise with the structure specified under the Company Law, including fully autonomous Board
of Directors and Supervisory Board.
8.3    The increased autonomy would need to be complemented by the establishment of a regulatory and
supervisory framework on the part of BMG. This will require, beyond the Boards on which BMG would
be represented, clear definition of BDC's mandates, and rules and procedures regarding pricing and other
matters involving regulatory actions. In order to defme such a framework and guide the restructuring
process, BMG is establishing a leading group, headed by the Vice Mayor of Beijing in charge of planning.
The project would finance the following technical assistance, training and equipment to assist BDC to
implement the systems, processes and structural changes and ensure (i) sound corporate planning; (ii)
secure internal financial controls; (iii) accurate and timely data collection of key financial and physical
inputs; (iv) a suitable training program; and (v) improved operation and maintenance systems, to meet
BDC's needs:
-48 -



Technical Assistance to Design the Corporate and Sector Structures, by reviewing options and make
details recommendations on: sector regulatory frameworks, corporate mandates, corporate structure,
financing options, capital planning systems, MIS and accounting systems, personnel systems, and
training programs; to report to the Leading Group and BDC. Total consultant input: 20 person-months
foreign and 40 p/m national, estimated cost $0.72 M.
Technical Assistance for Implementation of the above and operations improvement. Total consultant
input 40 p/m international, 115 national, at an estimated cost of $1.55 M.
Technical Assistance for project management, design and bid document review, and facility
commissioning assistance during project implementation: Total consultant input 40 p/m international.
Total cost $1.2 M.
Computer system hardware and software for BDC systems, estimated cost $0.38 M.
Training overseas and in-house: Total cost $1.0 M.
Equipment for operation and maintenance: Total cost $1.6 M.
Project Component 9 - US$303.28 million
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
9.1 The trunk interceptor sewers and WWTPs in the Liangshui River system will permanently occupy ab
out 84 ha of land and require an additional 85 ha temporarily during construction. This will require
resettling 2,386 families or 8,300 residents, 357 institutions and commercial entities, and 277,147.5 m of
built structure. The Qing River trunk interceptor sewers will permanently occupy about 0.8 ha of land
permanently and require 48 ha during construction. This will affect 259 families with 716 residents and
houses and other structures with a total floor space of 61,300 m'. The majority of affected residents are
farmers and laborers.
9.2   In view of the urban setting, the resettlement and other compensations would be provided mainly in
the form of cash compensations to enable replacement of the real property by at least equivalent properties
of the relocatee's choice on the market, based on estimated market prices of comparable properties. The
other main part of the compensation consists of employment assistance for those who wish or need to find
new employment. Some residents who work as farm or construction laborers have applied for the
assistance so far. BDC has committed to employing all the applicants in its subsidiary units on the same
employment terms as existing workers. Other compensation includes moving costs and extra compensation
for those who have ownership of their properties, beyond the more usual use rights. These follow the new
resettlement regulations of BMG. Details of the standards, scope, and budgets for various compensations
are provided in the RAP (Annex 8: project files.)
9.3    The RAP is, however, subject to two uncertainties. Currently only about 20% of all sewerage
works details are confirmed, others being in the preliminary design stage. Detailed design of the remainder
is scheduled to be completed by late 2001. This leaves considerable room to change the scope of
resettlement and land acquisition. The more likely change is reduction in the scope, as has been done in the
earlier stage of project preparation, but the possibility of increased scope exists. Further, the compensation
would be determined on the basis of market prices of replacement properties, which may increase faster
than projected. For these reasons, a generous budget has been allocated. A revised RAP with firm details
-49 -



would be prepared as the detailed engineering designs are completed, and submitted to the Bank well before
the start of the works bidding process so as to ensure completion of satisfactory resettlement and
compensation before the work starts. The updating of the RAP and its implementation would be monitored
by a team of professionals of Beijing University.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
Local    .FO -   gn        Totl
Project Cost-By Component                 US $milkni   US $million   U $miition
AIR POLLUTION REDUCTION                                                                0.00
A. Boiler Conversion                                      181.96       235.41        417.37
B. Gas Boiler Market and Technology Development (GEF)      10.58        16.56         27.14
C. Heating Energy Conservation (GEF)                       4.40          6.77         11.17
D. Air Quality Monitoring and Decision Support              0.89         2.30          3.19
SEWERAGE                                                                               0.00
E. Liangshui River Sewers                                 68.65         19.56         88.21
F. Liangshui River Wastewater Treatment                   96.84         88.22        185.06
G. Qing River Sewers                                      40.83         12.61         53.44
H. BDC Institutional Development                            0.48         5.66          6.14
I. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                     250.82                     250.82
Total Baseline Cost                                      655.45        387.09       1042.54
Physical Contingencies                                   87.60         45.25        132.85
Price Contingencies                                      47.20         28.92         76.12
Total Project Costs             790.25       461.26       1251.51
Front-end fee                     3.49         3.49
Total Financing Required             790.25        464.75       1255.00
Local                         W
Proect Costy CaeUSums $oioll,n.
Goods                                                      123.87         276.05       399.92
Works                                                      341.33          85.32       426.65
Services                                                    48.84          72.82       121.66
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                            303.28           0.00       303.28
Total ProjectCosts     817.32        434.19       1251.51
Front-end fee                    3.49          3.49
Total Financing Required    817.32         437.68       1255.00
Note: Services include engineering, project management, and marketing as well as technical assistance and
training.
Cost Estimation Details
Project base cost estimates are based on December 1999 prices and design estimates. Physical
contingencies of 10% were applied to all wastewater expenditure categories in 2000 to reflect that estimates
are based on preliminary design specifications, and of 15% for 2001 to 2005 to reflect less precise
estimates. For boiler conversion component, a physical contingencies of 10% have been included in the
estimated costs. For other components, 15% of contingencies are added.
Price contingencies are estimated using the World Bank projection of local and intemational price
increases, shown below. The exchange rate of Renminbi Yuan to US dollar is assumed to change to
maintain purchasing power parity. In the case of boilers, for reasons discussed in Sections B and C of this
PAD, most of the excess margin over the international price that is present in current equipment prices in
- 51 -



Beijing is projected to be eliminated, resulting in the overall price reduction of these equipment by 30%
over six years in real terms. The combined effect of this with the general price level increase would be a
net nominal price reduction of 20% over six years. A similar reduction is projected in technical services
costs. Details are shown in Table lb below.
Year    2000       2001       2002       2003        2004       2005
Price Increases, Yuan         2.0%      5.0        5.0        5.0         5.0        5.0
Price increases, US$         1.6        2.5        2.6        2.5        2.5         2.6
The full nominal price costs of air pollution control components account for 42% of project costs;
57% for the wastewater components, including 26% in land acquisition and resettlement costs.
Table 1. DETAILED ESTIMATED COSTS OF BOILER CONVERSION
Table la. Unit Cost by Boiler Size
(Yuan Million in end 1999 prices, including physical contingencies)
Boiler Size: tph            2                          4                             6
Loc.    For'n    Total    Local    For.n    Total      Local     Foen       Total
RMB      US$     RMB      RMB      US$      RMB        RMB        US$      RMB
Engineering             0.05    0.00     0.05     0.08     0.00      0.09       0.11      0.00        0.11
Civil Works             0.16     0.00    0.16     0.28     0.00      0.28       0.36       0.00       0.36
Equipment and           0.27    0.05     0.71     0.48     0.10      1.28       0.61      0.12        1.61
Materials
Installaton             0.28    0.00     0.29     0.50     0.00      0.52       0.64      0.00        0.65
Project Management      0.04     0.00    0.04     0.07     0.00      0.07       0.09      0.00        0.09
TOTAL      0.79     0.05     1.25    1.43     0.10      2.24       1.79       0.12        2.82
Boiler Size, tph                8                         10
Loc     Foen    Total    Local    Forn      Total
RMB      US$     RMB      RMB      US$      RMB
Engineering             0.13     0.00    0.14     0.16     0.00      0.17
Civil Works             0.44     0.00    0.44     0.53     0.00      0.53
Equipment and           0.76     0.15    2.00     0.89     0.18      2.37
Materials
Installabton            0.79     0.00    0.81     0.93     0.00      0.96
Project Management      0.11    0.00     0.11     0.13     0.00      0.14
TOTAL      2.23     0.15    3.51     2.64     0.18      4.15
- 52 -



Table lb. Projected Annual Conversion Schedule, Number of Boilers
Boiler Program       2000      2001      2002      2003     2004      2005   Survey   Project
2 tph    95       160       185       200       130       60     1004      830
4tph     90       160      250       257       180        80     1227     1017
6 tph    40        50        59        45        20       10      269       224
8tph      3                   3                   0                 4         6
10tph     12        15        25        23       15         7      117       97
Total Number Boilers    240     385       522       525       345       157    2621      2174
Table lc. Estimated Cost of Conversion
(US$ M)
Boilers                              2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005      Total
Cost, 2000 prices                     21.07    32.51    45.75    44.74    29.21      13.30    186.58
Reduced Cost, 2000 prices             20.40    29.51    38.91    35.66    21.83      9.31    155.62
Actual current prices                 20.57    30.35    41.04    38.58    24.20    10.58    165.33
Other Goods
Cost, 2000 prices                     12.84    19.82    27.89    27.28    17.81       8.11    113.75
Reduced Cost 2000 prices              12.84    19.82    27.89    27.28    17.81      8.11    113.75
Actual current prices                 12.95    20.39    29.42    29.51     19.75      9.21    121.22
Works and Services
Cost, 2000 prices                     25.68    39.64    55.78    54.55    35.62    16.21    227.48
Reduced Cost, 2000 prices             24.88    35.98    47.44    43.48    26.61      11.35    189.74
Actual current prices                 25.08    37.01    50.04    47.04    29.51      12.90    201.58
Total
Cost, 2000 prices                     59.59    91.97   129.42   126.56    82.64    37.61    527.81
Reduced Cost, 2000 prices             58.12    85.30   114.24   106.42    66.25    28.77    459.11
Actual current prices                 58.59    87.75   120.51   115.13    73.46    32.70    488.13
- 53 -



Summary - Boiler Conversion Cost
(Notional base cost with price reduction and 10% physical contingency)
Year    2000      2001     2002     2003     2004      2005     Total
Equipment, Bank-financed             18.55    26.82    35.37    32.42    19.84      8.47    141.47
Equipment, Other                     11.68    18.02    25.36    24.80    16.19      7.37    103.40
Works and Services                   22.61    32.71    43.13    39.53    24.20    10.32    172.49
Total    52.84    77.55   103.85    96.75    60.23    26.15    417.37
Summary - Boiler Conversion Cost
(including physical contingencies and cost reduction)
Year    2000      2001     2002     2003     2004      2005     Total
Equipment, Bank-financed             20.40    29.51    38.91    35.66    21.83      9.31    155.62
Equipment, Other                     12.84    19.82    27.89    27.28    17.81      8.11    113.75
Works and Services                   24.88    35.98    47.44    43.48    26.61     11.35    189.74
Total    58.12    85.30   114.24   106.42    66.25    28.77    459.11
Summary - Boiler Conversion Cost
(in Current Price)
Year    2000      2001     2002     2003     2004      2005     Total
Equipment, Bank-financed             20.57    30.35    41.04    38.58    24.20    10.58    165.33
Equipment, Other                     12.95    20.39    29.42    29.51    19.75      9.21    121.22
Works and Services                   25.08    37.01    50.04    47.04    29.51      12.90    201.58
Total    58.59    87.75   120.51   115.13    73.46    32.70    488.13
Table Id. Procurement Schedule, Packages including GEF-financed Boilers
Yuan M in 2000 prices
Year      2000      2001       2002      2003       2004       2005
Boilers                                    131.77    196.63     265.43    244.48     147.04      60.14
Gas Regulators, Valves, and other           37.17     55.46      74.86     68.96      41.47      16.96
Note: GEF-financed boilers $000                       938.7    2190.3    2190.3       938.7
- 54 -



Table 2. ESTIMATED COSTS OF GEF-FINANCED COMPONENTS
Summary: Total Cost
Consultants       Training/Marketing      Goods/Works                  Total
Base       Total    Base       Total      Base       Total         Base          Total
Gas             $9,521    $11,620   $2,032      $2,480   $15,594    $19,032        $27,146       $33,132
Mkt/Tech.
Conservation    $3,350     $4,088   $1,177      $1,437    $5,594      $6,828       $10,121      $12,353
E&EStudy         $883      $1,078      $94        $114       $67         $82        $1,044        $1,274
Total  $13,754    $16,787   $3,303      $4,031   $21,255    $25,941        $38,311       $46,758
Summary: GEF Financing
] -Consultants         Training/Marketing      Goods/Works                 Total
Base       Total    Base       Total      Base       Total         Base          Total
Gas             $5,349     $6,528   $1,117      $1,363    $7,054      $8,609       $13,520       $16,500
Mkt/Tech.
Conservation    $2,103     $2,566     $845      $1,031    $3,033      $3,702        $5,981        $7,299
E&EStudy         $838      $1,023      $94        $114       $52         $63         $983         $1,200
Total   $8,290    $10,117   $2,056      $2,509   $10,138    $12,374        $20,484       $25,000
-55 -



Table 2.a Detailed Estimates: (Base Cost, $000)
Consultant Services
-------- GEF-Financed Elements ---------                      Other
Person-Months        Cost, $000
Other      Grand
Foreign     Local   Foreign       Local                   Total       Local        Total
Technical Capacity Building                 77        741     $1,416     $1,972                  $3,387      $3,109       $6,497
Technology Transfer, General                18         45       $344      $120                    $464          $60         $524
Advanced Technology Introduction             5         24        $96       $64                    $159          $15         $174
Developing Best Practice Models             15         48      $287       $128                    $415          $32         $446
Industry Analysis and Capacity Bldg          5         36        $96       $96                    $191          $21         $212
Training                                     4         51        $77      $136                    $212          $28         $240
Evaluaton of Boiler and Heat Delivery        8         94      $153       $249                    $402          $51         $453
Services for Initial Boiler Conversion
Design and Installation                12        301      $230       $801                   $1,030      $1,498       $2,529
Operations and maintenance              7        142      $134       $379                    $513       $1,406       $1,919
Market Development                          40        450      $765      $1,196                  $1,961      $1,063       $3,024
Market survey, aggregation and
Procurementtmanagement                 15         72      $287       $192                    $478         $413         $891
Marketing and Infornnation Dissemination
General Marketing and surveys           4         56        $77       $149                    $225         $74         $300
Point-of-sales Appraisal                10       196       $191       $520                    $712        $173         $885
Model boilers
Full-time demonstration and training    2         45        $38       $120                    $158        $144         $302
In-use boilers                           3        45        $57       $120                    $177        $144         $321
Distnrbuted (small) gas boilers         6         36       $115        $96                    $211        $115         $325
Total, Gas Technology and Market           114       1191    $2,181      $3,168                  $5,349      $4,172       $9,521
Develop.
- 56 -



Consultant Services
Heating Energy Conservation                65        323    $1,243       $859                  $2,103       $1,247      $3,350
Best Practice Development
Heat Distribution system, General     9         30      $172        $80                    $252         $20        $271
Individualmeteringandcontrol          4         15       $77        $40                    $116         $10         $126
Insulationandother measures           6         20      $115        $53                    $168         $13         $181
Refinecoalbestpractices               7         30      $134        $80                    $214         $82         $296
Audits and Assistance for Best
Practice Impl.
Coal boilers                          2         36        $38       $96                    $134        $115         $249
Non-coal boilers                       1        15        $19       $40                     $59         $48         $107
HeatDistnibution system, General      4         48        $77      $128                    $204        $153         $357
Insulation and other measures         3         30        $57       $80                    $137         $96         $233
Marketing                             2         24        $38       $64                    $102         $77         $179
Advisor for Center and Training       18        18       $344       $48                    $392        $180         $572
Demonstration projects
Coal boiler systems                   2         12        $38       $32                     $70         $96         $166
Distribution systems                  3         12        $57       $32                     $89         $96         $185
Insulationandother                    2         15        $38       $40                     $78        $120         $198
Individual meteringand control        2         18        $38       $48                     $86        $144         $230
Energy and Environment studies             32         85      $612       $226                    $838         $45        $883
Grand Total, Consultants                  211       1599    $4,036    $4,253                   $8,290       $5,464     $13,754
- 57 -



Table 2.b Costs for Training, Dissemination, and Marketing
Persons       Unit     For-      Local    Total         Other      Total
Cost     eign                             Local
Technical Capacity Building                                      $221      $280      $501       $516      $1,017
3 month training (2-6 mo)          6   Person-trip     13000      $78                 $78                    $78
5-wkstudytour(3-6weeks)           15   Person-trip     9500      $143                $143                   $143
Specialist Training               50   Persons         3000                $150      $150       $450        $600
Training workshop for                                                                                         $0
Gas boiler technicians            20   events          2000                 $40       $40        $66        $106
Technical Documents               15   sets            6000                 $90       $90                    $90
Market Development                                               $116      $501      $617       $399      $1,016
World Market survey               15   Person-trip     7700      $116                $116                   $116
Marketing Training                50   Persons          500                 $25       $25        $75        $100
Conversion Guides                  5   sets            6000                 $30       $30                    $30
Publicity
Leaflets                      10   sets             5000                $50        $50                   $50
Exhibits                      30   spots            1000                $30        $30                   $30
Media                         15   spots           10000               $150      $150                   $150
District Info Centers              8   sets           12000                 $96       $96       $144        $240
Training workshops                60   workshops       2000                $120      $120       $180        $300
(operators)
Total                                                            $336      $781    $1,117       $915      $2,032
Heating Energy                                                   $109      $736      $845       $332      $1,177
Conservation
3 month training (2-6 mo)          4   Persons        13000       $52                 $52                    $52
5-week study tour (3-6weeks)       6   Persons         9500       $57                 $57                    $57
Local Specialist Training         45    Persons        2000                 $90       $90        $18        $108
Training/Dissemination
Advertising
Leaflets                40   sets            5000                $200      $200                   $200
Exhibits                50   spots            1000                $50        $50        $50       $100
Media                   12   spots          10000                $120      $120                   $120
District Info Centers          8   sets            12000                $96       $96       $144        $240
Technical Documents           20   sets             3000                $60        $60                   $60
Workshops                     60   events           2000               $120       $120       $120       $240
Energy and Environment                                            $83       $11       $94         $0         $94
studies
3 month training (2-6        2   Person-trip    13000       $26                 $26                    $26
mo)
5-week tour                  6   Person-trip     9500       $57                 $57                    $57
Workshops/reports            3   events           3500                $11        $11                   $11
- 58 -



Table 2.c Goods
Num         Unit     Unit   Foreign       Local       Total     Other       Total
Cost     Cost        Cost                  Local
1. Technology and Market
Development
Boilers and accessories
Full-time                 6         sets   14000       $672       $168       $840       $924       $1,764
demo/Training                                   0
In-use demo              32         sets   95000      $2,432      $608      $3,040     $3,952      $6,992
Advanced                 20         sets   40000       $720        $80        $800     $1,040      $1,840
Distributed,medium        8         sets   11000       $704       $176        $880     $1,144      $2,024
0
Distributed, small      320         sets    2000       $480       $160       $640        $704      $1,344
Parts                   5%      ofabove                $250        $60       $310       $388        $698
Subtotal                                             $5,258    $1,252      $6,510     $8,152    $14,662
Laboratory and Training         2         sets   10000        $180       $20        $200         $7        $207
Instruments                                           0
Auditing instruments           20         sets    7500        $135       $15        $150         $5        $155
Mainten. Tools and Guages      20         sets    7000         $98       $42        $140        $14        $154
Subtotal                                               $413        $77       $490        $26        $516
Vehicles: Small                 10                16000        $80       $80        $160        $27        $187
Vans                    4                28000       $112         $0        $112        $37       $149
Mobile phones                   16                 1200         $0       $19         $19         $6         $26
Laptop Computers               20         sets    3000         $30       $30         $60        $20         $80
Officecomnputersets***         36         sets    3000         $54       S54        $108        $18        $126
Audio-visual Equipment           6        sets    6000         $25       $11         $36         $4         $40
and other training aids
Other office equipment          3         sets    6000          $9        $9         $18       $250        $268
Subtotal                                                $310      $203        $513       $362        $875
Total Equipment - Gas                                       $5,982    $1,532      $7,513     $8,540    $16,053
2. Heating Energy
Conservation
Demronstrations
Coal Boilers                    8         sets   75000        $420      $180        $600       $900      $1,500
Heat distribution systems       8         sets   75000        $480      $120        $600       $900      $1,500
- 59 -



Meters and valves            1200        sets     550       $462      $198       $660       $198       $858
Insulation, etc.             240         sets    1000       $120      $120       $240       $288       $528
Demonstration sets              8        sets   50000       $280      $120       $400       $120       $520
Subtotal                                              $1,762      $738     $2,500     $2,406     $4,906
Instruments and tools          12        sets   40000       $432       $48       $480        $16       $496
Audio-visual Equipment         9         sets    6000        $38       $16        $54         $5        $59
and other training aids
Subtotal                                               $470        $64       $534        $21       $555
Vehicles: small                 5               16000        $27       $53        $80        $18        $98
Vans                   2                28000        $56        $0        $56         $0        $56
Mobile phones                   6                1200         $0        $7         $7         $2        $10
Laptop Computers               7         sets    3000        $11       $11        $21         $4        $25
Office computer sets***       20         sets    3000        $30       $30        $60        $10        $70
Other office equipment         9         sets    6000        $27       $27        $54       $100       $154
Subtotal                                                   $150      $128       $278       $134       $412
Total Equipment -                                         $2,382      $930      $3,312     $2,561     $5,873
Conservation
3. Energy and Environment
Study
Laptop Computers               3         sets    3000         $5        $5         $9         $2        $11
Officecomputersets***           5        sets    3000         $8        $8         $15        $4         $19
Modelling Software              I        sets   26000        $26        $0        $26         $7        $33
Other office equipment          1        sets    6000         $3        $3          $6        $3          $9
Total Equipment E &E                                    $41       $15        $56        $16         $72
Study
Total Equipment                                           $8,405    $2,477    $10,881    $11,116    $21,998
- 60 -



TABLE 3: DETAILED COST - SEWERAGE
(Base Cost by Year, Yuan million in 1999 prices)
2000        2001        2002        2003        2004         2005        Total
I. Investment
Costs
A. Civil Works
1.1 Qinghe             25.620      34.160      19.820           -            -           -      79.600
Interceptor -
Upstream Secton
1.2 Qinghe             21.120      42.240       2.240           -            -           -      65.600
Interceptor - Central
Secbon
1.3 Qinghe             15.070      20.090      11.670           -            -           -      46.830
Interceptor-downstr
eam section
1.4Xiaoyuehe                -           -      11.060      55.300       36.740           -     103.100
Sewer-Downstream
Section
1.5 Xiaoyuehe               -           -           -      11.540       57.700      38.360     107.600
Sewer-Upstream
Section
2.1 Liangshuihe        26.880       53.760     44.660           -            -           -      125.300
Interceptor-Upstrea
m Section
2.2 Liangshuihe        25.300       50.600     42.000           -            -           -      117.900
Interceptor-Downstr
eam Section
2.3 Xinkai Ditch            -        0.170     21.830      23.210            -           -      45.210
Interceptor
2.4 Fengcaohe           6.080       21.820          -           -            -           -      27.900
Sewer
2.5 Songjiazhuang           -        8.500     30.500           -            -           -       39.000
Sewer and Syphons
2.6 Xiaolonghe              -           -           -           -        8.670      69.440      78.110
Interceptor & Main
Branch
4.1 Wujiacun                -       22.840     30.360           -            -           -      53.200
Interceptor
5.1 Shijingshan             -           -      10.190      49.250       32.370           -      91.810
Ditch
Sewer-Upstream
5.2 Shijingshan             -           -      12.430      60.100       39.580           -      112.110
Ditch
Sewer-Downstream
Section
Subtotal Civil        120.070      254.180    236.760      199.400     175.060      107.800    1,093.270
Works
B. Land Acquisibon    346.620      715.990    420.460     207.420      155.380      58.140    1,904.010
& Resettlement
C. Technical
Assitance
7.1 Constructon         5.000        5.000      5.000       5.000        5.000           -      25.000
Management
Consultancy
7.2 Engineering             -        2.000     34.500       7.200       22.300       13.500      79.500
Design &
Management
Subtotal Technical      5.000        7.000     39.500       12.200      27.300       13.500     104.500
Assitance
Total                 471.690      977.170    696.720     419.020      357.740      179.440    3,101.780
- 61 -



TABLE 4: DETAILED COST - WASTEWATER TREATMENT
(Base Cost by Year, Yuan M in 1999 prices)
2000     2001      2002       2003       2004       2005        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
3.2 Xiaohongmen WWTP Civil Works         -         -      0.520     76.810    102.420    50.540      230.290
3.3 Xiaohongmen WWTP Civil Works         -         -      0.520    76.810    102.420     50.540      230.290
3.4 Xiaohongmen WWTP Misc                -         -          -          -         -    23.230        23.230
4.3 Wujiacun WWTP Civil Works            -         -    23.380      44.670         -          -       68.050
4.4 Wujiacun WWTP Misc                   -         -          -      3.440         -          -        3.440
5.4 Lugouqiao WWTP Civil Work            -         -          -      0.930    70.060     66.100      137.090
5.5 Lugouqiao WWTP Misc                  -         -          -          -         -      6.910        6.910
Subtotal Civil Works                     -         -    24.420    202.660    274.900    197.320      699.300
B. Equipment & Material
3.1 Xiaohongmen WWTP Equipment           -    1.860    234.500    132.120      7.520          -      376.000
Supply
4.2 Wujiacun WWTP Equipment              -   26.190      47.110          -          -         -       73.300
Supply
5.3 Lugouqiao WWTP Equipment             -         -      9.340    137.320      9.340         -      156.000
Supply
6.1 Sewer O&M Equipment                  -    0.340      10.260          -          -         -        10.600
Subtotal Equipment & Material            -   28.390    301.210    269.440      16.860         -      615.900
C. Land Acquisition & Resetfement        -   29.420    286.810      77.190     8.580          -      402.000
D. Technical Assistance
Engineering Design & Management          -         -    15.700    134.600           -    77.300      227.600
Total                                    -   57.810    628.140    683.890    300.340    274.620    1,944.800
-62 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
ECONOMIC VALUES OF ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
I .    Benefits of environmental improvements such as those under the project are broadly acknowledged
but not easily quantified. Understanding the types of benefits and costs and their approximate magnitudes,
however, could provide strategic guides to practical project design and implementation.
BOILER CONVERSION
2.    Technical Characteristics of Natural Gas Heating. listed below, provide the most relevant
environmentally and economically significant comparison with coal:
a. substantial proportion of non-carbon fuel;
b. high combustion efficiency, about 80% on gross heat value basis, compared with 50-70% for coal;
c. little heat loss from boiler, rarely over 10%, compared with 10-30% in coal-fired boilers;
d. automatic gas delivery, eliminating the need for transportation and storage;
e. sealed, automatic operation;
f. little residue, compared with high volumes of ash from coal burning;
Global and local environmental benefits are due to factors a, b,, c, and f. Factors b through f
provide for economic and financial efficiencies.
3.    Fuel Cost. Factors b and c result in heating efficiency of natural gas about 50% higher than coal.
T-hus, although natural gas (Y 1.4 per cubic meter) is about three times as expensive as coal if compared on
the basis of intrinsic calorific value, eventual cost per heat sent into the heating system would be about
twice as high as coal. There are other efficiency factors such as the ability of gas boilers to reach desired
temperature much more quickly than coal boilers.
The current bulk price of natural gas in Beijing (Y 0.99 at the city gate, or about $3.4 per million
Btu) is about 60% higher than prices in Europe (as of September 1999); coal prices in China are close to or
lower than international prices. It is probable therefore the cost gap between the two fuels can narrow
significantly in the long run. Further, from 1999, coal has been subject to cost increases due to the new
sulfur tax and requirement to use more expensive low-sulfur coal. This would increase coal costs by about
17%.
From the economic and fiscal point of view, the cost of natural gas is lower than the final price
also due to the sunk capital in the distribution network which can cany far more natural gas than the
current usage. For areas where the network already exists, the variable, marginal cost of gas for the Gas
Corp. is about Y 1. 1/rn. The network requires expansion, estimated to cost about Y 700 M to supply the
eventual delivery area of the city. These two would be the relevant economic cost of natural gas, not the
sunk investment of about $380 M.
4.    Operating costs differences. Technical estimation of non-fuel operating costs of natural gas and
coal boilers indicate about Y 2.5 and Y 11.5 per square meter heated, respectively, due mainly to the high
manual labor requirements of the latter. A very small set of actual operating data (summarized in Table A
4.1) we could obtain confirms the relative difference, but it shows considerably larger magnitudes.
The most important and surprising implication of the data is that gas boiler operating costs are lower than
the small and medium-sized coal boilers, as the fuel cost disadvantage of natural gas boilers is
-63 -



overshadowed by other recurrent costs. The large operating costs for both the gas and coal boilers
probably indicate the inclusion of labor involved in operation and maintenance of the entire heating system,
beyond the boilers, whereas the district heating do not include costs outside the boiler houses. The costs
also indicate the inexperience with gas boilers; and large maintenance needs of small coal boilers (about
40% of non-fuel costs). The data also revealed that unit heating costs differ only slightly across large
capacity variation among the gas boilers and among small and medium-size coal boilers.
Table A4.1 Heating Cost by Element
(Yuan per square meter heated, 1998-99 heating season)
Boiler Type                   Fuel       Labor      Other  Total O&M
Natural Gas Boilers          25.67        3.23       1.85       30.75
Small Coal Boilers           13.32       15.72       5.80       34.35
Coal District Heating        11.49        1.87        1.75      15.11
Four natural gas boilers (4, 6, 14, and 30 tph); six small and medium-sized boilers (0.6- 6 tph);
and 2 large coal boilers (20 and 50 tph).
Source: Public Utility Bureau, Haidian District Heating Office, Far East Instrument Company
5.     Labor. The main cost for coal heating is the labor. Given the large uncertainty associated with the
very small sample, we have adjusted it downward by 10% in economic comparison. As China's urban
wage continues to increase rapidly, this alone would put the older scattered boilers out of economic
commission, in favor of newer and more efficient coal boilers if not gas boilers. The labor savings, whether
by gas boilers or by more efficient coal boilers, would imply reduced employment of the manual labor to
handle coal and ash. Currently the entities using the boiler fill the labor need, which is seasonal and
arduous, by pressing their own staff into duty on rotation, or by recruiting farmers from outside the city
looking for the off-season jobs, and in many cases both. The labor savings would therefore worsen labor
surplus issues for many of the enterprises and reduce off-season job opportunities for farmers outside the
city. Some 2200 boilers to be converted under the project may involve an order of magnitude of about
10,000 full-time equivalent of such labor, or nearly 0.2% of total employment in Beijing. Some or all of
the lost job opportunities would be replaced by new jobs generated by increased economic investment
following the environmental improvement. Neither the jobs lost or gained could not be estimated with
confidence due to the variety of situations, but it would be important to monitor the employment impact on
specific groups of poor laborers.
6.     Capital Costs. The current large equipment price differential in favor of coal boilers, however,
more than offsets the slight operating cost advantage of gas boilers. The differential on a per square meter
basis is estimated at about Y 6. In addition, the economic cost of gas boilers should include the cost of gas
distribution network and connection although a significant part of it is a sunk cost. The gap could become
narrower. Coal boilers would have to include more automatic features for labor savings. Gas boilers have
significantly longer life (25 versus 20 years) and their prices are projected to decrease significantly with
market expansion.
7.     Age of Boilers and Premature Conversion. On top of the high cost of gas boilers, the remaining
life of coal-fired boilers is a major argument against conversion. Age distribution of district heating boilers
in 1997 shows a median age of about 9.7 years with higher mode and average. Smaller scattered boilers
are believed to be considerably older as new and more denser developments and the increasingly strict
- 64 -



environmental regulations favored larger boilers in recent years. This appears to be one reason why the
small and medium sized boilers have such high operating costs in the above examples. Given the general
observation that useful life of a coal boiler is about 18-20 years and boiler operating costs rise in linear
proportion with age, less than 20% of small and medium sized boilers are likely to have more than half of
its value remaining (which would be reached at about 5 years). In 2000, median-age small boilers would
have only about 30% of its original value. If conversion proceeds from older boilers and reach newer
boilers by 2005, therefore, it is unlikely that a large stock of valuable boilers would be scrapped.
8.    Land for Boiler Houses. Coal boilers need coal and ash yards as well as considerable room for
operation. A typical boiler house comprise three or four medium-sized boilers of 2-4 tph range, about 400
m of building containing four boilers, and about 2000 m of coal and ash yard. The project area consists
of central urban districts where minimum land values on the open market would be about Y 2000/mr. If the
land is disposable for lease or other use, its value can cover the whole cost of installing about three 2-tph
gas boilers. The social value of the land could be considerably less than this private value, as the higher
density use of the land would require increased infrastructure. Also converting the land to a different use
may also take some time for owners to find financing for land conversion.
9.     Health Benefits. The current consensus considers that ultrafme particles (PM-10) is the most
damaging to health and generated heavily from coal burning. Since we could not obtain a reliable estimate
or projection of PM- 10, however, we based our benefit estimation on that of health benefits from reduction
of sulfur dioxide and total suspended particulates. The pollutant reduction was projected with a air quality
modeling, and the medical costs were obtained by updating those estimated in a 1990 Bank study of coal
boilers. This is likely to be an gross underestimation given the lack of the costs associated with PM 10 in
the analysis, and of the human resource cost of the illness.
10.   Economic Development. Air pollution and traffic congestion are two most widely cited physical
factors against location or visit of international firms and personnel in Beijing. Cleaner air, therefore, is
expected to promote investments and economic development though it is difficult to quantify.
11.    Global Climate Benefits. Conversions under the project will reduce about 560,000 tons of carbon
emissions a year. In addition, the project will provide the necessary impetus, organizational assistance as
well as technical and market development for the broader conversion of more than 8000 coal-fired boilers
that will result in reduction of nearly 2 million tons of carbon emissions. Using efficiency cut-off value of
$10/ton, this alone would outweigh most of the other benefits. This, however, is not included in our
analysis of local economic benefits, nor the indirect effect of the project on the rest of boilers in Beijing or
elsewhere in China. The Incremental Cost Analysis (Annex 11) takes a different comparison from the
above, as it compares the costs of the next most environmentally friendly alternative to scattered coal
boilers - consolidation into district heating boilers.
BENEFITS OF HEATING ENERGY CONSERVATION
12.   Heating energy conservation will reduce the fuel consumption and hence reduce both cost and
pollution. We do not include these benefits in our evaluation as the project provides largely indirect,
though essential, assistance to build the technical and institutional bases for conservation and only
relatively small direct investments in conservation.
- 65 -



WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT
13.   Economic evaluation of sanitation projects usually focuses on health benefits, which rarely are
straightforward nor sufficient. We have instead focused on identifying more readily quantifiable benefit
measure, two for sewage collection and two for treatment separately, and obtained a surprisingly large
estimate of benefits, although still less than usual threshold of economic return.
14.   Contingent Valuation. In 1999, Swanson, et al. conducted a systematic contingent valuation
survey of 999 Beijing residents (Swanson, Timothy, B. Day, and S. Mourato, 1999. "Valuing water quality in
China: purpose, approach and policy", Journal of Environmental Sciences, Vol. 11, No. 3). This shows an
average contingent valuation of Y 186 per year per household for clean surface and ground water of
Beijing, or about Y 500 M for the city of Beijing. This is remarkably close to the estimated willingness to
pay derived by Mott McDonald in Chongqing in 1998, adjusted for income differences. For the 3.2 million
residents of Liangshui and Qing River basins, the valuation total would be about Y193 M, which will
increase by the rate of income and population increases (3% and 0.7% per year). This valuation is taken as
a fair representation of health and aesthetic benefits of sewerage to the basin residents.
15.   Ground water qualitv. Because of overall water shortage, groundwater is the dominant source of
water for industries in Beijing. Most of the groundwater sources in the city including the two basins do not
meet quality standards, making them useable only as cooling water or after expensive treatment. The cost
of treatment ranges from about Y 0.3 to Y 1.5 per m' depending upon the type of use. Even at the high
cost, industries do not have altematives as piped water supply is in short supply and a cubic meter of fresh
water, recycled on average four times, is an input to about Y 453 of industrial production. The interceptor
sewers would improve the quality, although only gradually, improving the quality to near satisfactory level
in about 20 years. On the other hand, discharge without interceptors would progressively worsen the water
to levels requiring increasingly expensive treatment.
16.   Downstream Benefits. A 1998 technical report on Hai River basin (Planning Group for Water
Pollution Prevention in Haihe River Basin, Plan for Water Pollution Prevention in Hai River Basin) notes
that raising water quality of the Hai, the most polluted main river of China in terms of percentage of
tributaries below Class V standard, to the level mandated by the Government would raise the agricultural
production by at least 5%, using an earlier water resource model. Beijing's discharge reduction amounts to
about 20% of the total reduction required of the basin under the plan. This implies that the 880,000 m
treated in the Liangshui basin as a result of the project would amount to about 9.5% of the planned
reduction in the whole Hai River basin. In Tianjin, where some 18% of farm area is irrigated with Hai
River water, we apply this proportion to derive the agricultural production benefits. In the immediate
downstream of Liangshui River WWTPs, the productivity effects would be much higher, and we assume
10% improvement in agricultural productivity.
17.   Costs. In addition to the capital investment during the project, the sewerage systems in the two
basins is expected to require branch sewers and connections costing, over the next 20 years, about 60% of
the trunk sewers built under the project, and annual operation and maintenance cost costing about 4.5% of
the trunk sewer and WWTP plant costs. On the other hand, we have excluded about 25% of the
resettlement cost that is attributable to housing improvement above and beyond what would have been
required strictly for compensation.
-66 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
18.   Present value of benefit and cost streams identified above, discounted at an annual real discount
rate of 12% over 30 years, are listed below:
Table A 4.2   Summary of Benefits and Costs, Present Value
Boiler Conversion
Yuan Million $ Million
Operation and Maintenance Cost savings:           1384          167
Land Savings                                654           79
Medical Cost Savings:                       439           53
Additional Capital Cost:                  -1412         -171
Net Total                            1064         129
Economic Internal Rate of Return 19.8%
Sewerage
Contingent Valuation                       1876           227
Groundwater for Industries                  235            28
Agricultural benefit, Beijing               259            31
Agricultural benefit, Tianjin              1028           124
Investments, including connections         -3814         -461
Operation and Maintenance                  - 616          - 74
Net Total                           - 1032          125
Economic Internal Rate of Return 8.7%
Total Net Present Value, Project         129         4
Economic Rate of Return           12.1%
19.   The most striking information given by the above estimation is the large positive benefits from
boiler conversion, including relatively concrete benefits only. Comparing the estimated health benefits with
the contingent valuation of improved water resources in a part of the city (which appears to be a fair
estimate but larger than the former) indicates that true health benefits are likely to be far higher. Further,
the estimate does not include economic growth benefits nor the global climate benefits.
20.   It is important to note that the economic evaluation shown here is the comparison between having
natural gas boilers and keeping scattered coal boilers and replacing them with improved coal boilers.
Probably the least cost option is likely to be consolidating coal boilers into large coal-fired district heating
boilers, although its environmental and health benefits are likely to be far smaller than conversion to natural
gas and the feasibility of such consolidation is limited. A comparison of economic costs and benefits
between the conversion and consolidation is presented in Annex 11, incremental cost analysis.
21.   A comparison was also made of net costs of conversion in 2002 versus keeping a scattered coal
boiler and replacing them in about 5 years with an improved coal boiler, that would reduce much of the
manual coal and ash handling. In the latter case, it was assumed that clean coal has to be used and the
sulfur tax paid. The following table A4.3 presents the present value of various costs over the 25-year life
span of the gas boiler (in Yuan 1000 in 2000 prices, discounted at 12% a year). This shows that the net
- 67 -



costs are about even, with the high cost of capital due to high boiler prices as well as premature
replacement balanced by a large savings in labor and land.
Table A 4.3    Cost of 3-tph Coal and Natural Gas boiler heating, 2002-26
Yuan 1000
Coal boiler    Natural gas boiler  Difference
Fuel cost              118                 229              111
Labor                  132                  28             -104
Other O&M               55                  19             - 36
Equipment               84                 160              76
Land                    49                                 -49
Total                  439                 426             - 13
22.    While the estimated rate of return, 8.7%, of the sewerage investments falls below the usual
threshold of 12%, this still represents a robust return compared with returns estimated for most other
sewerage projects. A primary implication of this benefit estimation, depending most importantly on
contingent valuation, appears to be that income and density of residents in Beijing have reached the point to
fully justify the sewer investments. The more expensive wastewater treatment component appears to harder
to justify on economic grounds alone, without including non-agricultural use of treated water which is not
estimated here.
Main Assumptions:
23.    Most of the assumptions are stated in the above discussion. Important ones used for estimation of
boiler costs and benefits include: no increase in operating costs in coal boiler until its retirement in about 7
years from now; 30% labor savings with a new coal boiler which will remain in service without decreasing
efficiency for another 20 years; 3% increase in unit labor cost; no sulfur tax or low-sulfur requirements;
changes in coal and gas prices paralleling international price movements forecast; seven year waiting for
development of saved land, with 50% deduction for additional investment required. Important assumptions
for the sewerage evaluation include: increase in contingent valuation along with per capita income (3.5% a
year) and population (0.7% a year) in the two basins; investment in branch sewers and connections costing
about 60% of trunk sewer cost; annual operating cost of WWTP and sewers equivalent to about 4.5% of
capital cost.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
24.    Labor cost is the most important element of cost comparison between the coal and natural gas
boilers. But its estimate is subject to great uncertainty given the very small sample size. If the labor cost
gap is reduced by 33%, the net present value of conversion would turn zero. Estimation of labor cost by
technical analysis shows that this is likely to be the minimum labor requirement for coal-fired heating,
indicating that the evaluation is robust. This robustness, however, does not extend to the private benefits of
conversion to individual boiler owners, which does not include health benefits externality.
25.   In the case of sewerage, most of the assumptions are very conservative, and the more interesting
sensitivity analysis would be to identify switching values that would turn its net benefits positive. It shows
that per capita contingent valuation increasing 7% a year, which is close to the actual per capita income
growth, would be sufficient, as would adding non-agricultural benefits downstream that would be of the
same magnitude as the agricultural benefits. These appear reasonable assumptions, indicating that the
sewerage investments are close to being fully justified.
- 68 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
1. Finances of the Municipal and District Governments of Beijing
1.1 Beijing municipal tax revenues and expenditures in 1999 were Y 24.2 billion ($3.0 billion equivalent)
and Y 18.5 billion ($2.2 billion equivalent), respectively. For the past five years tax revenues and
expenditures grew annually at an average of 13% and 14%, respectively. Revenues are projected to grow
at 10% annually in current terms through the project implementation period. Given that Beijing
Municipality's economy has grown by around 10% in real terms in the last 10 years, this project is likely to
be met easily. Its expenditures are expected to grow at a higher 12%. This would still leave the own
budgetary revenues exceeding budgetary expenditures, an unusual situation among Chinese local
governments since 1994 tax reform. The surplus would be transferred to District Governments and
extra-budgetary accounts for various infrastructure and environmental expenditures. It has not been able to
obtain data on extra-budgetary finances.
Table 1: BEIJING MUNICIPAL FINANCES
(Y billion, current terms)
Actual        I            Projected
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006
Receipts  13.3  16.1  19.5  23.3  20.9  24.2  26.6  29.3  32.2  35.4  39.0  42.9  47.2
Expend.  9.6  15.1  18.0  23.0  13.5  18.5  20.7  23.2  26.0  29.1  32.6  36.5  40.1
1.2    BMG will on-lend more than 99% of the Bank loan to the Beijing Drainage Company and the
Shihuan Jietian Energy Technology Co. (SJET). In addition, BMG would provide about Y 1.2 billion over
the project period mainly (i) as an equity infusion to BDC to be used for a part of the counterpart financing
for the wastewater component of the project, and (ii) allocation to units belonging to it for counterpart
financing of boiler conversion. Smaller amounts would be allocated for (i) subsidies for a limited number
of non-governmental entities converting their boilers by 2002, (ii) counterpart financing of the heating
energy conservation component; and (ii) air quality monitoring and decision support. These will amount to
less than 1% of the budgetary expenditures during the same period. In the unlikely event that these
subborrowers should be unable to fulfill their obligations, BMG would have no problem in covering debt
service as this is only about 1% of projected on-budget revenues.
1.3    Since 1994, annual on-budget revenues for the eight districts participating in the coal to
gas conversion program have grown between 18% to 27%, and their on-budget expenditures
have grown from 26% to 33%. For simplicity, both revenues and expenditures are projected to
grow at a conservative 15% per annum during the project implementation period. The revenues are
those from their own sources, and do not include allocations received from BMG.
-69 -



Table A 5.2 Consolidated Budgets of Eight District Governments of Beijing
(Billion Yuan, in current prices)
Year                    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Revenues                8.23     9.94    11.43    13.15    15.11    17.39     20    22.98
Expenditures            9.57    11.44    13.15    15.14    17.4      20    23.01    26.46
Project Expenditures      0        0     0.60     0.60     0.60     0.60     0.60     0.60
Project as % of           0        0    5.2%     4.6%     4.0%     3.5%     3.0%     2.6%
Revenue
2. SJET Financial Analysis
2.1    Business scope:
(1)    Promotion of conversion, in cooperation with BMG, District Governments, and Beijing Gas Group
Co (BGGC), financed partly with GEF grant.
(2)    Procurement and sales of boiler equipment on installment terms, financed by Bank loan
(3)    Technical support for selection, installation, testing, monitoring of boilers and operator training -
supported largely by GEF grant, some covered by manufacturer warranty.
(4)    Development of gas boiler technology and best practice models with GEF support.
(5)    Assistance in selection, contracting, and supervision of design and installation contractors if
requested by users (paid by users and partly supported by GEF grant).
(6)    Assistance in arranging counterpart financing: to be considered after 2000.
(7)    Assistance with disposal of old coal boilers, on commission basis
(8)    Outside or after the Bank-financed project: technical development and consulting, boiler and other
advanced energy equipment import and distribution.
SJET would keep strictly separate accounts between World Bank financed project implementation
and other related or unrelated businesses. The following discusses only the former.
2.2    Financially, SJETs operation consists largely of credits. It has to generate and maintain a healthy
balance of long-term receivables to be able to match its long-term liabilities, and generate cash flows to
match the short-term imbalances. It would therefore address the financial tasks generated by the terms and
conditions of the World Bank loan and its mandate of maxirnizing boiler sales as follows:
- 70 -



Maturity risk and credit risk:       limit terms of installment to those less than the World Bank loan
Foreign exchange risk                assumed by SJET, provided that BMG permits SJET to pass the risk
on to the end-users through increase in tariff
Interest rate risk                   pass on to buyer, or consider assuming it on premium in a later stage
Credit risk:                         Appraise buyers' financial health especially the liquidity and credit
history, the business prospect, the building to which boilers would be
attached, etc.;
Require guarantees and collateral;
Assess higher interest margin (up to 2% over World Bank rate) to
higher risk buyers, and provide reduction on good payment record
Take strict credit follow-up steps
Cash flow mismatch: within a year - boilers Take short-term loans initially, and build up cash later
sold in summer and recovery (through the  Set fiscal year from July I to June 30.
gas bill) during winter and spring
Cash flow mismatch: Initial period -  Take short-term advances from the parent company and short-term
negative due to                      loans
start-up expenses, World Bank's front-end  Defer accounting recognition of the fmancial charges to synchronize
and commitment charges               with sales
Cover as much up-front expenses by downpayment (5.5% of
wholesale prices)
Minimize grace period to buyers
Cash flow mismatch: later period     Invest in marketable securities
2.3    Given these considerations on the part of SJET, and BMG's objectives in giving the concession to
SJET, namely maximizing the volume and speed of boiler sales, the following terms are proposed, to be
reviewed at the latest after two years' implementation:
Proposed Down Payment and Installment Terms
Item        Down Payment (%   Price Margin      Price Margin    Interest Rate   Maturity (years)
boiler cost)    first 1000 boilers  Others
Institutions      5.5%              2%               5%            6.73%            12-17
Enterprise        5.5%              2%               5%             8.23%           5-15
2.4    Cost to be Recovered consist of the following:
* Full cost of boiler
* Interest charge: the same as the Bank loan (interest rate risk passed on to the buyers). Cost of
management about 5%
* Premium to cover risk and profit 0-5%. Other financial costs including World Bank loan
front-end fees and commitment charges SJET start-up cost, about 3% of procurement price of
equipment to sell;
* Cost of financing and storage between delivery and installation, 1-2%;
* Procurement and customs cost, 1%.
* Local transportation and provision for local losses and damages, 1-2%.
* Cost of services provided at the request of buyer (equipment will not be subject to import duties
and value added tax).
The first four items would in principle be recoverable through installment credits, last four
up-front, and the one in the middle (up-front costs) divided between the two.
- 71 -



2.5  Cost recovery mechanism:
Maturity: Buyer's choice, up to World Bank loan maturity, e.g. 20 years for boilers installed in
2000, and 15 years for those installed in 2004. But it would be more prudent to try to limit them to
shorter periods.
Channel of Installment Payment. Added to the gas bill as a fixed amount (except variation due to
interest rate changes), subject to same terms, conditions, and late payment penalties as the gas tariff.
0.5% of collection will be paid to BGGC. SJET will call in the credit security (to be attached to the
sales contract, and discussed in section E (below) on arrears of 1.5 years or longer. Partial payment
will be applied proportionately to gas and boiler charges. The collection will be remitted directly to
SJET account.
2.5    Appraisal of Users
a. Credit security: To be attached to the sales contract as an addendum.
BMG's full guaranty: if this is given, no further appraisal nor any risk premium. Applicable to an
estimated 200-300 boilers.
DG and other third party guaranties
Collateral on building and liquid assets, and the boiler itself.
b. Record of boiler operation. If the user has incurred significant arrears on costs of operating the current
boiler system (coal, labor, power, etc.), the user will not be eligible.
c. Condition of the building heated by the boiler: if the building is likely to be redeveloped within the
installment period, the boiler will be at risk.
d. Financial status of boiler owner: If the above two are satisfactory, a brief assessment of the owner's
financial status (through review of financial statements) and prospect (through SJET assessment) to
determine, in conjunction with the credit security, the risk category and corresponding risk premium
(1-5% of boiler cost)
e. Counterpart financing: A written plan of the buyer indicating the amount by source, and a brief
assessment by SJET financial analyst of the feasibility.
2.6    Accounts and Financial Projection. Given the nature of SJET's business and its focus on balance
sheet, only the balance sheet and cash flow projections are reproduced below. Income and expense
statements are too susceptible to accounting treatment of various deferred items. The projections show that
the above terms would provide a minimum but steady liquidity and profit for SJET as long as it keeps its
defaults below 2% from government institutions and 5% from other entities. Technical details assumed are
provided after the financial projections.
- 72 -



Projected Key Financial Indicators of Beijing SJET Company
I _______                   (RMB Million Yuan)
FY    2001   2002    2003    2004   2005    2006   2007   2012   2017
Installment Outstanding      167    407    711       970   1,078   1,051     922    256        0
Total Assets                 202    464    821   1,169   1,384   1,084       952    272       13
Long-term Debt               185    436      777   1,097   1,298   1,004     876    235        0
Equity and Reseres             9      27      44      71      86      80      76      37      13
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ___o~   ~   ~ 0  0      0       0       0       0       0       0
Cost of Boiler Procurement   -175    -252   -341    -320   -201       -88      0       0       0
Net Operating Cash Flow     -150   -206   -245   -169        -18     108     196    112       55
L-T Loan Taken or Repaid (-)    171    252    341    320    201    -294    -128    -82    -42
r--__                          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Revenues (1)                  17      37      64      91     108      97      88      45       8
Operating expenses             3       7       8       8       8       7       5_      4       2
Financial Charges              9      24      44      67      84      94      71      24       5
Net Income                    0.8    -0.5    3.0    7.8       9.9    -6.2    11.7    1.3   -2.6
Equity/Asset                4.6%    5.9%    5.4%    6.1%    6.2%    7.4%    7.9%   13.7%  100.0%
Gross Margin (2)           10.9%   12.4%   13.4%   14.9%   16.5%   18.2%   17.5%   20.6%    0.0%
!Note: (1) Revenues include down payment, mark-up and interest received from installment and interest from liquid i
but not include boiler wholesale cost.l
(2) Gross Margin = (rewenue - financial charges)/principal installment outstanding
Key assumptions for SJET Financial Projection
Buyers: It is estimated that about 40% of total boiler procurement will be for governmental institutions and
60% for others. Of the purchase amount for 2001, 90% are for institutions and 10% for enterprises. The
remaining institution-boiler costs are divided into 60% to 40% in Year 2002 and 2003 respectively, and the
rest of annual purchase amount for 2002 and 2003 go to enterprises. All annual purchase after 2003 are
for enterprises.
Average Maturity: 15 years for institutional buyers, 8 years for others.
Procurement expenses: 2.5% of procurement price for the procurement agent, local transportation and
insurance, inspection and custom charges, storage and damages and so on.
Sales expense is the salary paid to sales people, 80,000 RMB per year with 1% annual increase, as well as
advertising and promotion expenses.
Sales tax and VAT: exempt
- 73 -



Operating expenses include: labor (15-39, depending upon year), expert, travel, entertainment, recruitment,
office rent, insurance, utilities, supplies, communication, unpredictable expenses. The operating expense is
expected to reduce to 80% of previous level in FY 2007 and further reduce 50% in FY 2013.
Collection commission is 0.5% of annual sales revenue (collection), which is paid to the Gas Company for
collection of installment payment.
Cash and cash equivalent: Cash has been kept to minimum levels so that the remaining cash can be used for
investment in marketable securities and other businesses, which will accumulate over time be ultimately
used for loan repayment.
Receivable is receivable principal balance outstanding. Annual sales are amortized over 15-17 years for
institution boilers with 6.73% discount rate, and over 8 years for enterprise boilers with 8.23% discount
rate.
Provision for Doubtful Receivables: Directly write-off 2% and 5% respectively from the annual receivables
for institutions and enterprises.
Fixed Assets: Original value of fixed asset will be RMB 0.6 million in the FY 2001 and 1.1 million in FY
2002. They will be replaced in 5 or 10 years after putting in use.
Amortization:
(a) The start-up cost is amortized over 5 years,
(b) World Bank front-end fee and commitmnent charges are amortized over 17 years.
Long-term Debt: World Bank loan: annual loan repaymnent is started from FY 2006 using previous years'
accumulated investment and current years cash balance. After 2006, the loan principal repayment equals
to current years net cash flow. The loan will be fully repaid in FY 2017.
Equity: is assumed to be shareholder's paid-in capital of RMB 1 million.
Shareholder's advance: RMB 8 million, which will be amortized over 5 years.
3. Beijing Drainage Company Financial Analysis
3.1   The financial objectives of the Beijing Drainage Company are for it to generate sufficient revenues
from its wastewater operation and drainage payments received from BMG to cover its operations and
maintenance expenses and depreciation, in line with the "Circular of the State Development Planning
Commission, Ministry of Construction and the State Environmental Protection Administration on
Strengthening the Collection of Wastewater Tariff and Establishing a Sound Operation Mechanism on the
Discharge of Urban Wastewater and Central Treatment", promulgated in September 1999. BDC would
maintain a minimum cash balance of approximately three months of operating expenses, and use the
remaining cash to invest in on-going sewage investments, including this project. The tariff schedule,
outlined in Annex 7, should provide BDC sufficient cash to finance about 20% of overall wastewater
component financing requirements and meet its debt service obligations on existing loans and the World
Bank loan.
- 74 -



3.2    Corporate Financial Analysis. A corporate financial analysis was prepared by BDC with the
assistance of Bank staff and consultants. A summary of the assumptions to the financial analysis are
shown below and the full financial analysis is in the project files. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that BMG would, commencing with fiscal year 2000, cause BDC to (a) produce revenues
from their wastewater operations sufficient to cover operations and adequate maintenance costs plus
depreciation or debt service whichever is higher. This could require the following wastewater tariff
schedule:
Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/mr)
2000        2001         2002         2003        2004         2005        2006
0.46        0.71         0.71         0.71        0.71         0.71         0.92
3.3    Assurances will be also obtained during negotiations that BMG would cause BDC to prepare,
before September 30, 2000, and in each of the following fiscal years, forecasts satisfactory to the Bank
Group, (a) review whether they would meet the covenanted requirements set forth above in such fiscal year,
and (b) to furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank Group; if any such reviews would show that the
entity would not meet the requirements set out above, the entity would take all necessary measures,
including adjustments to the structure of its tariffs and charges, in order to meet the requirements.
Table 3: Actual and Projected Beijing Wastewater Tariffs
(Y/m, current prices)
1996    1997    1998    1999   2000  2001   2002   2003    2004   2005  2006
Average                     0.26   0.32     0.46   0.71   0.71   0.71    0.71    0.71   0.92
Residental   0.00   0.10    0.13    0.30    0.30   0.47   0.47   0.47    0.47    0.47   0.60
Non-resid.          0.30    0.38    0.50    0.50   0.78   0.78   0.78    0.78   0.78   1.01
% ncrease                            44      54     0      0      0       0       0     30
-75 -



Table 4: Key Beijing Drainage Company Financial Indicators
(RMB Million, Current Price Unless Noted)
1999      2000     2001      2002      2003      2004     2005    2006       2007      2008
Fixed Asset             2260      4612      6815     6512      8760      8736      9404     1029     9792      9290
5
Total Assets            5125      6030      7377     8889      10075    10708      1107     1127      111I     11087
9        7        4
Total Long-term Debt    473        676      964       1392     1658      1798      1707     1562      1437      1313
Operating Revenue       266        396      655       691       747       805      865      1191      1224      1436
Operating Expenses       132       203      251       276       294       314      374       477      567       610
Depreciation            100        203      303       303       409      425       471      525       526       527
Net Income               34       (10)       101      112       43        65        21       189      131       299
Cash and Bank            21        221       176       90       57        117      147       887      1284      1874
Operating Ratio (%)      50        51        38       40        39        39        43       40       46        42
Current Ratio           0.8        3.0       2.7      1.9       1.4       1.1       1.2      4.9      7.1       9.8
Collection Eff. (%)      61        67        72        74       78        82        86       90        90        90
Capital Expenditure     509       1001      1576      1741     1526       969      705       26        27        29
Internal Cash                               311       370       334      245       160       26       27         29
Financing
Internal Cash/Current    16        36        31        32       28        25        28       159      189       250
Expenses (%)
Financial Covenants
Revenue >=              266        396      655       691       747       805      865      1191      1224      1436
O&M + Depreciation      232        406      553       579       704       739      844      1003      1093      1137
DebtService              2.1       2.2       4.3      3.9       3.6       3.1       1.8      2.7      3.0       4.4
Avg. Tariff (Y/,n)      0.32      0.46      0.71      0.71      0.71     0.71      0.71     0.92      0.92      0.92
- 76 -



3.4    Assumptions to BDC Financial Analysis. Assumptions to the projections of the main fmancial
statements of the Beijing Drainage Company and remaining sewerage assets (1997 to 2000) and BDC
alone (2001 to 2008) have been prepared. Below is a summary of the assumptions used. Detailed
assumptions can be found in the project files in the report: Financial Analysis of the Beijing Drainage
Company.
Income Statement:
Sales Revenue: is a multiplication of the following factors and the unit tariff rates in Table 3 to this annex.
Tariffs have been set to allow BDC to cover its operations and maintenance costs, including costs of
depreciation. Water sales volume projections are based on the lesser of "minimum demand" and
"maximum capacity" figures.
Unit   1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
WatV Sales    Million m    258   265   271   278  285  292   300   307   315   323
Residential     /yr
VoluWae -     Million m    910   933   957  981  1005  1031  1057  1083  1111  1138
Non-res.        /yr
Collection   |        T61    67    72   74   78   82   86   90   90    90
Efficiency
From 1997 to 2000, government shall provide Y34 M of drainage subsidies annually. Beginning in 2001,
the drainage subsidies are assumed to increase by Y 3 M annually. Tariff collection rate is expected
increase between 2% and 7% annually from 61% in 1999 to 90% in 2006 as BDC launches a campaign to
increase awareness of its role among consumers, and takes over the responsibility for retaining and
disposing of its own revenue.
Sales Tax: it is assumed that BDC will be able to obtain an exemption to payment of sales tax, even after
BDC comes under Company Law.
Personnel: is assumed to increase per staff increases and domestic inflation (5%):
Item    Unit   1999  2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005    2006    2007   2008
Salary  person   296    296    296    346    396    446    496       536    546    556
Staff
Wage   person   689    689    689    759    829    899    969    1225    1245    1265
Staff I       I
Electricity: is assumed to increase based on the increasing pumping station and wastewater treatment
volume flows and by domestic inflation (5%):
- 77 -



Item       Unit  1999   2000   2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
Pumping    Y       4      5     5      6     7      7     8      9     10    10
Station costs  mil.
WWTP costs  Y      18    30    40    45    47    49    63    85   105   110
mil.
Materials: is mainly coal costs and polymer used in sludge dewatering. Material cost is assumed to be
inflated by domestic inflation and wastewater treatment volume.
Selling Expenses: 1% of sales revenue is paid to the Water Supply Company for collection of wastewater
tariff.
Administration: is assumed to be 8% of wastewater treatment volume.
Maintenance: is assumed to be 1% of fixed asset volume increased by domestic inflation.
Depreciation: is assumed to be 4% of gross fixed assets.
Income Tax: it is assumed that BDC will be able to obtain an exemption to payment of income tax, even
after BDC comes under Company Law.
Balance Sheet:
Cash and Bank: is generated as the residual of the Sources and Applications of funds. Cash has been kept
to minimum levels (assumed to be about 3 months of operating expenses) so that the remaining cash can be
used for intemal financing of capital investments.
Accounts Receivable: is assumed to be 30 days of sales revenue.
Inventory: is assumed to be 30% materials and maintenance expenses.
Other Accounts Receivable and Other Current Assets: is assumed to remain at the same level as in 1998,
but increased by inflation.
Provision for Doubtful Receivables: is assumed to be 0.5% of accounts receivables per Chinese accounting
regulations. .
Fixed Assets: According to the Evaluation Report made by Beijing Derway Evaluation Company in ,
the total value of fixed assets was Y1.14 billion, among which:
(a)    Building: Y43 M including:
Beixiaohe WWTP: Y23 M
Pumping Station Administration Agency: Y19.2193 M
(b)    Equipment: Y15.9686 M, including:
Beixiaohe WWTP: Y10 M
Pumping Station Administration Agency: Y6 M
- 78 -



Tariff Collection Agency: YO.5 M
(c)    Sewerage network: Y1.08 billion
The gross value of fixed assets in 1997 is Y1.15 billion. Additional fixed asset increases are the result of
the second World Bank project investments, new investments along the Qing River, WWTP expansion of
the Gaobedian and Xiaohongmen plants, and replacement investments.
Accounts Payable: is assumed to be 10% of the materials and electricity expenses.
Short-term Loan: none is currently anticipated.
Other Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities: are assumed to remain at 1998 levels but increase
by domestic inflation. .
Long-terrn Debt:
(a)    OECF: annual loan repayment will be Y9 M from 1999
(b)    French government loan: annual loan repayment will be Y4.44 M from 2000
(c)    Swedish government loan: annual loan repayment will be Y24.5 M from 1999
(d)    Existing WB loan: annual loan repayment is Y14 M from 1999
(e)    World Bank loan: annual loan repayment is Yl I I M from 2005
Equity: is assumed to be Government capital contributions from budget to finance on-going project
investments.
Operational Indicators:
Water Supply Population: covers 8 districts in the main urban area
Wastewater Generation Rate: 2.59 million ton/day
Sewage Treatment Capacity: 21 % in 1999, reaching a maximum of 67% in 2007
Sewage Treatment Volume: 570,000 ton/day in 1999, reaching a maximum of 2,350,000
-79 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
Procurement
1. General    A Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (PCAR) was conducted by Bank
procurement specialists in the World Bank Office in China in October/November 1999 (revised April
2000). The conclusions are reflected in the PCAR in the project file. Two of the three implementing
agencies, i.e. Beijing Drainage Company and Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau, and Beijing
Environment Project Office (BEPO), which is responsible for overall project management and
coordination, as well as the procurement agent selected for the project, have prior experience with the Bank
financed First Beijing Environment Project and are very familiar with the Bank's procurement policies and
requirements. The newly-established Beijing Shi Huan Jie Tian Energy Technology Co, Ltd. (SJET) which
is responsible for the air pollution control component has limited experience. However, this situation can
be compensated for by intensified training program and guidance and assistance from the BEPO and the
procurement agent, as noted in the PCAR. Other aspects such as laws and regulations and local
procurement practice were also reviewed. The risk on this project in respect to both institutional capacity
and general procurement environment is considered to be average and the overall risk assessment was
determined to be average. The PCAR found that some local procedures were not in line with the Bank
Procurement Guidelines. This deficiency can be resolved through a supplemental letter of understanding
and through the provisions of the Chinese Bidding Law which became effective in January 2000.
Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group, as reflected in Table A,
were agreed upon with the BEPO and the implementing agencies. All goods, works and services to be
financed by the IBRD Loan and GEF grant proceeds will be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 (revised January and
August 1996 and September 1997, and January 1999) and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999. Model Bidding Documents (MBDs) agreed between GOC and the Bank Group (in absence of
MBDs, the Bank's Model Bidding Documents) will be used for all international competitive bidding (ICB)
and national competitive bidding (NCB) procurement. The Intemational Tendering Company under China
National Technology Import and Export Corporation (CNTIC - ITC) has been contracted by BEPO as
procurement agent for international tendering activities. The CNTIC-ITC is an experienced procurement
agent familiar with, and has recent and relevant experience in, ICB work on World Bank-financed projects.
The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the UN Development Business, No. 526, dated
January 16, 2000. To the extent practical, all works and goods contracts would be grouped into packages
of a size to attract maximum national and international competition. Bid packages for boiler equipment in
particular would be grouped in sizable bid packages so as to enhance competition and economies of scale.
These packages would be procured through ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines as noted above.
- 80 -



2.    Civil Works. The aggregate value of civil works contracts under the project is estimated to be
about $427 million, of which $110 million will be contracted through ICB and $158 million through NCB
procedures. The remaining $159 million of contracts are not subject to Bank/GEF financing.
The wastewater component of the project involves about 22 works contracts with a total estimated
value of $268 million. The Bank will finance about 34% of this value. The ICB threshold for works
contracts will be $15 million, which will cover at least four large contracts with an estimated total value of
about $110 million, and possibly up to three more whose preliminary estimates are close to $15 million.
The threshold of $15 million was agreed with the Regional Procurement Advisor because recent experience
on similar projects in China has shown there is no interest from foreign firms in contracts below this level.
The ICB process is longer and less efficient for the Chinese agencies so this change to the threshold for this
project will have positive effects on implementation. The contract packaging was done with this rationale
in mind. The remainder of works contracts under the wastewater component will be procured through
NCB with estimated value of $158 million. Interested eligible foreign bidders would be allowed to
participate in NCB. Prequalification of contractors will be carried out for all these ICB and NCB
contracts. The air pollution control requires civil works worth about $159 million, mainly for boiler house
modification and gas pipeline installation. These works will be procured according to local commercial
practices and not be financed with the Bank Loan or GEF grant.
Chinese NCB procedures for works have been reviewed by the World Bank Group and found some
deviations in the internal procurement procedures, such as bracketing and merit point system used in
prequalification and bid evaluation. The implementing agencies are fully committed to strictly comply with
the Bank's procurement procedures/policies for the Bank financed contracts. In case there are any
discrepancy between local policy and Bank's requirement, the Bank policy and guidelines will prevail. The
Beijing Municipal Government and the project implementing agencies shall pay particular attention to
ensure that the following procedures are followed:
(a)    all invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised both in a newspaper of national
circulation in China, and in a local newspaper with Beijing-wide circulation;
(b)   such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses; and in any
event a minimum of 30 days shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission;
(c)    qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the qualification of each
bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents;
(d)    all bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient to protect project
implementing agencies in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding
documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security;
(e)   the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such bids;
(f)    all bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an opportunity to be present
(either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders
shall not be required to be present at the bid opening;
- 81 -



(g)    no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any standard
contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by the project
irnplementing agencies; and
(h)    each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, that is to say, the bidder
who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award,
to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise
to modify the bid as originally submitted.
3.    Goods. The aggregate value of goods contract under the project is estimated about $400 million,
among which $268 million will be procured through ICB and $8 million through international and local
shopping procedures. The remaining $124 million are not subject to Bank/GEF financing. Goods worth
about $251 million would be eligible for financing by the Bank, about $13 million by GEF. The ICB
threshold is $250,000. Contracts with value less than $250,000 and with an estimated aggregate value up
to $8 million would be procured through national and international shopping procedures. There will be no
NCB for goods under this project. Ninety seven percent (97%) of the Bank and GEF financed goods will
be procured through ICB. The Bank and GEF will finance 100% of ICB cost (CIF/CIP basis) and 70% for
shopping. The most important items for shopping are miscellaneous pipe fittings and valves required for
gas pipelines, gas boilers and heat distribution systems which have to be fitted to specific existing
conditions. There will be numerous such items that cannot be procured with standard specifications and
sufficient quantities. Other exceptions from ICB include: various small instruments to monitor and
maintain boilers and heat distribution systems, spare parts for existing air quality monitoring and analysis
equipment, and miscellaneous communication, transportation, and office equipment. Goods worth about
$124 million required for gas pipelines and other parts of the heating systems would not be financed by the
Bank or GEF and will be procured using local procurement procedures.
4.    Services. The project would finance about $16.7 million of Bank loan and GEF grant for training
and services for technical assistance, studies, design and project management, and marketing for: efficient
conversion to natural gas boilers, energy conservation, institutional development of Beijing Drainage
Company. Most of the consultants would be hired through firms selected competitively on the basis of
quality and cost, rather than a team of consultants to be selected on the basis of quality alone for detailed
planning of BDC institutional development elements. Several consultants would be hired as individual
advisors to help with initial start up and operational planning for various components, and SJET would hire
and directly manage about a third of national engineering and marketing personnel for gas boiler conversion
individually on the basis of qualifications. Beneficiaries and implementing agencies would require
additional services mainly for design and project management services for the project components, at a total
estimated cost of about $105 million, which would not be financed by the Bank or GEF.
- 82 -



5. Advanced Contracting and Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing of up to $30 million of the
IBRD Loan and $2.5 million of the GEF Grant would be applied to eligible expenditures made after
December 31, 1999 for: (a) four civil works contracts for construction of trunk interceptor sewers; (b)
procurement of gas boilers and associated equipment packages; (c) office, transportation, and
communication equipment; and (d) study tours and consultant services.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
_    _   _   _  _   _  _ _    _ _  _   _         G  ~ ~   
1. Works                         109.87        157.85         0.00         158.93       426.65
(36.48)       (53.52)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (90.00)
2. Goods                        268.00          0.00          8.05         123.87       399.92
(258.00)       (0.00)        (5.81)        (0.00)      (263.81)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00         16.91         104.75       121.66
and Training                   (0.00)        (0.00)        (16.70)       (0.00)       (16.70)
4. Land and Resettlement          0.00          0.00          0.00         303.28       303.28
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                  0.00          0.00          3.49          0.00         3.49
l__________________________      (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.49)       (0.00)        (3.49)
Total                         377.87        157.85        28.45         690.83       1255.00
i  (294.48)       (53.52)       (26.00)       (0.00)       (374.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/Grant. All costs include
contingencies
vIncludes all goods and services procured following the respective Bank's Guidelines through
international/national shopping, direct contracting, and standard selection methods for consulting
services.
Note: ICB and NCB amounts for civil works is subject to change when detailed engineering design is completed.
Table Al: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement
Bank-financed components
(US$ M Equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB        Other      NBF'        Total
1. Works                   109.87     157.85      0.00       137.50     405.22
(36.48)    (53.52)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (90.00)
2. Goods                   257.63      0.00       6.39        0.00      264.02
(246.47)    (0.00)     (4.94)     (0.00)     (251.41)
- 83 -



3. Service and Training    0.00       0.00       4.10       0.50        4.60
(0.00)    (0.00)     (4.10)     (0.00)      (4.10)
4. Front-end fee                                 3.49                   3.49
(3.49)                (3.49)
Total Cost                367.50     157.85      13.98     138.00      677.33
(282.95)    (53.52)    (12.53)    (0.00)    (349.00)
Note: figures in parenthesis are the amount to be financed by the Bank loan.
Table A2: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement
GEF financed component
(US$ M Equivalent)
Expenditure Category       ICB        NCB        Other      NBF'        Total
1. Works                   0.00       0.00       0.00       21.43      21.43
(0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                   11.05      0.00       1.66       0.00        12.71
(10.72)    (0.00)     (1.66)     (0.00)     (12.38)
3. Service and Training    0.00       0.00       12.62      0.00        12.62
(0.00)     (0.00)    (12.62)     (0.00)    (12.62)
Total                      11.05      0.00       14.28      21.43       46.76
(10.72)    (0.00)     (14.28)    (0.00)     (25.00)
Note: figures in parenthesis are the amount to be financed by the GEF grant.
1/ NBF is included in Table A. Some ICB packages under air pollution control component are financed jointly by
the Bank loan and GEF grant
- 84 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The Bank's prior review procedures will apply to all goods packages with estimated value over
$250,000, civil works packages over $10 million, consulting firm contracts over $200,000,
individual consultant contracts over $50,000, and training packages over $50,000.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                        15,000                    ICB                      227
2. Goods                         250                      ICB                      272
3. Services(Firms)               200                     QCBS                       16
4. Services (Individuals)         50                      CQ                        0.3
5. Training                       50                     Other                     0.3
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  about $515 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Avemge
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months for the first two years
and thereafter once every 8 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
This frequency is considered reasonable because the two procurement specialists for the project are located
in the World Bank Office in Beijing. Thus they are readily accessible to the Borrower implementing
agencies and the ITC for the project. This arrangement has worked well previously on other projects under
implementation in China and during the review of contract being prepared for advanced
contracting/retroactive financing under this project.
Ex-post Review
The Bank will carry out ex-post review of about 10% of contracts not subject to prior review.
Contract packaging for the project is provided in the table below, showing the goods, works and
services contracts proposed for each component.
- 85 -



Table C. Schedule of Contract Packages
Procure.      Base Cost    Remarks
Contract No.    Description/Year                          Method        (RMB M)
GOODS
Gas Boiler Equipment financed by Bank and GEF
BCS 1.1         Year 2000                                 ICB               104.74           R
BCS 1.2         2001                                      ICB               156.29
BCS 1.3         2002                                      ICB               210.98
BCS 1.4         2003                                      ICB               194.33
BCS 1.5         2004                                      ICB               116.88
BCS 1.6         2005                                      ICB                47.80
Gas Regulators, Valves and other related Equipment
BCS 2.1         2000                                      ICB                64.19           R
BCS 2.2         2001                                      ICB                95.79
BCS 2.3         2002                                      ICB               129.31
BCS 2.4         2003                                      ICB               119.11
BCS 2.5         2004                                      ICB                71.64
BCS 2.6         2005                                      ICB                29.30
Assortment of parts related to above, in small quantities  NS/IS             30.00
(estimated value per year: about 3% of the value of the above
two)
Various heating system and boiler testing instruments, training
materials, and tools
GSHE I.1        2000                                      IS                  1.50           R
GSHE I.2        2001                                      ICB                 4.39
GSHE 1.3        2002                                      iS                  0.80
GSHE 1.3        2003                                      IS                  0.65
Various boiler and heating system parts for energ efficiency
GHE C.1         2000                                      NS                  0.86
GHE C.2         2001                                      ICB                 2.37
GHE C.3         2002                                      ICB                 2.69
GHEC.4          2003                                      ICB                 2.69
GHE C.5         2004                                      ICB                 2.15
GHE C.6         2005                                     NS                   1.20
GHE M. 1        Heat Meters and Valves (supply and install)
2002                                     ICB                  5.46
GHE N.1-10      Local Misc. Goods for Heating Systems (10    NS               4.47
packages)
GSHE 0.1-8      Misc. Goods for Office, Training &        NS                  7.46           R
Transportation   (8 packages)
Air Quality Monitoring and Analysis
EPE 1.1         Analytical Equipment for gas, particulates,    ICB            5.82
multipollutants, and others
EPE 1.2         Laboratory and Particulate Testing       ICB                  4.37
Equipment
- 86 -



EPE 2.1         Electro Magnetic Detection                ICB                  2.18
EPE 3.1         Air Quality Monitoring Equipment          ICB                  3.64
EPE 4.1         Spares for Existing Equipment             IS                   3.86
Wastewater Treatment Plants and Sewer Maintenance
Equipment
WWE 4.1         Xiaohongmen WWTP equipment                ICB                376.00
WWE 5.1         Wujiacun WWTP equipment                   ICB                 73.30
WWE 7.1         Lugouqiao WWTP equipment                  ICB                156.00
WWE 8.1         Sewer 0 & M Equipment                     ICB                 10.60
WWE 9.1         BDC Computer Hardware/Software            ICB                  2.86
CONSULTING SERVICES
GSC 1.1         Gas boiler and heat delivery engineering and
marketing                                 QCBS                11.72
GSC N. I        Gas boiler engineering and sales          QCBS                 5.18
GSC N.2         Gas boiler engineering                    QCBS                 2.72
GSC N.3         Thermal engineering                       QCBS                 3.11
GSC M. 1        Marketing                                 QCBS                 2.30
GHC I.1         Heating energy conservation
QCBS                9.03
GHC I.2         Energy and environment study
QCBS                5.07
GHC N. 1        Thermal engineering 1                     QCBS                 4.39
GHC N.2         Thermal engineering 2                     QCBS                 2.96
GHC N.3         Boiler engineering                        QCBS                 2.44
GHC N.4         Energy market specialists                 QCBS                 0.75
GHC N.3         Environmental specialists                 QCBS                 1.12
BDCC 1          Detailed Planning of Institutional
Development of BDC                        QBS                  5.69
BDCC 2          Implementation of Institutional
Development                               QCBS                12.20
BDCC 3          Project Implementation Assistance         QCBS                 9.48
CIVIL WORKS
WWC 1.1         Qing River interceptor upstream           NCB                 79.60   R
WWC 1.2         Qing River interceptor central            NCB                 65.60   R
WWC 1.3         Qing River interceptor downstream         NCB                 46.83
WWC 2.1         Xiaoyue River sewer downstream            NCB (1)            103.10
WWC 2.2         Xiaoyue River sewer upream                NCB (1)            107.60
WWC 3.1         Liangshui River interceptor upstream      ICB                125.30
WWC 3.2         Liangshui River interceptor downstream    NCB (1)            117.90   R
WWC 3.3         Xinkai Ditch                              NCB                 45.21
WWC 3.4         Fengcao River Sewer                       NCB                 27.90   R
WWC 3.5         Songjiazhuang Sewer                       NCB                 39.00
WWC 3.6         Xiaolong River Sewer                      NCB                 78.11
WWC 4.1         Xiaohongmen WWTP civil works              ICB                230.29
- 87 -



WWC 4.2          Xiaohongmen WWTP civil works               ICB                230.29
WWC 4.3          Xiaohongmen WWTP Miscellaneous             NCB                 23.23
WWC 5.1          Wujiacun sewer                             NCB                 53.20
WWC 5.2          Wujiacun WWTP civil works                  NCB                 68.05
WWC 5.3          Wujiacun WWTP miscellaneous                NCB                  3.44
WWC 6.1          Shijingshan interceptor upstream           NCB                 91.81
WWC 6.2          Shijingshan interceptor downstream         NCB (1)            112.11
WWC 7.1          Lugouqiao WWTP civil works                JCB                 137.09
1/ Note: The final designation of these civil works contract as ICB or NCB will be determined when the final
engineering design and cost estimates are completed, at the time the procurement documents are about to be
prepared.
Legend
ICB    = Intemational Competitive Bidding
IS/NS   = Intemational Shopping/ National Shopping
NCB    = National Competitive Bidding
PQ     = Prequalification
QCBS   = Quality-and-Cost-based Selection
QBS    = Quality-based Selection
R      = Retroactive financing (Advance Contracting)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 88 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan/grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan/Grant Proceeds
' oniur CeCOry               M at
Civil Works for Parts E, F, and G          90.00                          40%
Goods for Parts A and D                    168.30          100% of CIF/CIP and Ex-factory costs;
70% of other costs of goods procured
locally
Goods for Parts F and H                     83.11          100% of CIF/CIP and ex-factory costs;
70% of other costs of goods procured
locally
Consultant Services and Training for        4.10              100% of expenditure net of taxes
Parts D and H
Consultant Services and Training for        12.62             100% of expenditure net of taxes
Parts B and C (GEF financing)
Goods for Parts B and C (GEF                12.38          100% of CIF/CIP and Ex-factory costs;
financing)                                                  70% of other costs of goods procured
_______________________   locally
Total Project Costs                        370.51
Front-end fee         3.49                          100%
Total                                      374.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement will be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOE) for (a) civil works under
contracts costing less than $10 million, (b) goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 (c) training
(d) services provided by consulting firms under contract costing less than $100,000, and (e) services
provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000. Full documentation will be
needed for disbursement for others. BEPO will retain copies of the documents supporting the SOE and
make them available to Bank missions for inspection.
Special account:
Two Special Accounts will be established and maintained in US dollars by BEPO on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation will be $18 million for the Loan special account, and
$2 million for the GEF grant special account, which approximately equal to average projected
disbursements over four months. Replenishment application would be submitted monthly or when the
balance falls below 50% of the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.
Schedules: The project is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 2006 and the Loan and Grant Accounts
to be closed by December 31, 2006. The estimated loan and grant disbursement schedules are shown
below:
- 89 -



IBRD Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank FY   Semester       Cumulative     Estimated     Cumulative
Project    Disbursement  Disbursement
(%)         (million $)   (million $)
2001    First           6%            20.94          20.94
Second          13%           24.43          45.37
2002    First           22%           31.41          76.78
Second          33%           38.39         115.17
2003   First -          46%           43.63         158.80
Second          57%           40.14         198.93
2004    First           67%           34.90         233.83
Second          75%           27.92         261.75
2005   First            82%           24.43         286.18
Second          88%           20.94         307.12
2006   First            94%           20.94         328.06
Second          97%           10.47         338.53
2007    First          100%           10.47         349.00
Note: Disbursement for the first semester of FY 2001 equals to initial deposit of SA plus
front-end fee $3.49 M.
- 90 -



GEF Grant Disbursement Schedule
Bank FY                 Semester                      Cumulative                 Estimated
Project                 Disbursemen
(%)                     (million $)
2001                First                            6%                         1.50
Second                          14%                        1.88
2002                First                            23%                       2.38
Second                          35%                        3.00
2003                First                            48%                       3.25
Second                          62%                        3.50
2004                First                            72%                       2.50
Second                          82%                        2.50
2005                First                            88%                        1.50
Second                          92%                        1.00
2006                First                            95%                       0.75
Second                          98%                        0.75
2007                First                           100%                        0.5
- 91 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
_ -_
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                     23
First Bank mission (identification)                                            05/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                                                    04/17/2000
Negotiations                                                                   05/24/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/15/2000
Prepared by:
SJET, BDC, RHAO, with assistance from five design institutes of Beijing; coordinated by the Beijing
Environment Project Office and the Beijing Planning Commission, under the direction of the Beijing
Environmental Project Leading Group
Preparation assistance:
Consultant team comprising: Yanxiang Wang, Yonghui Fan, Ji Zou, Martin O'Dell, Eddie Hum, Jiangguo
Chi, Clemente Lau, Wengang Hua, Donald Audet, GAZFROM,, Maurice Fisher
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
NameSpcaIt
Songsu Choi                       Urban Economist
Roger Heath                        Chemical Engineer
George Plant                      Municipal Engineer
Dawn Vermilia                      Financial Analyst
Bertrand L. Ah-Sue                Procurement Specialist
Zhentu Liu                         Procurement Specialist
Chongwu Sun                        Environmental Specialist
Jae Hyang So                      Financial Analyst
Margaret Png                       Legal Counsel
Nancy Chen                         Financial Management Specialist
Youhua Yu                          Financial Management Specialist
Youlan Zou                         Resettlement Specialist
Louisa Huang                       Team Assistant/Financial Analyst
L. Kathleen Stephenson             Financial Analyst - Peer Reviewer
Jack Fritz                         Environmental Engineer - Peer Reviewer
Robert P. Taylor                   Energy Economist - Peer Reviewer
Wei-jen Leow                       Environmental Engineer
- 92 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Beijing Environment Project Office, Second Beijing Environment Project Project Implementation
Plan, January 2000
2.    Beijing Environment Project Office, Financial Management Manual for Second Beijing
Environment Project. December 1999
3.    Beijing Municipal Research Institute of Environmental Protection, Environmental Impact
Assessment Report-Second Beijing Environment Project, January 2000
4.    Beijing Shihuan Jietan Energy Technology Development, Co. Ltd.
(a)    Conversion of Coal-Fired Boilers in Beijing into Gas-Fired Boilers: Project
Implementation Plan, Draft November 1999
(b)    Customers Assessment Manual, January 2000;
(c)    Draft Sales Contract: For Governmental Institutions, and
For Non-Govemental Customers, January 2000;
(d)    Draft Collection Agent Agreement with Beijing Gas Group Corporation,
January 2000
5.    Beijing Gas and Heating Engineering Design Institute, with SOFREGAZ, France, Users'
Handbook for Gas-Fired Boiler House. November 1999
6.    Beijing Residential Heating Administration Office, Proposal for Heating Energy Conservation
Pro   , October 1999
7.    Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau, Environmental Decision Support System Development
Plan, December 2000
8.    Beijing Drainage Company, Liangshuihe and Qinghe Sewerage Project Implementation Plan.
January 2000
9.    Beijing Drainage Company, Institutional Development Plan for Beijing Drainage Company (Draft
Final Report), November 1999
10.   Beijing Drainage Company, Resettlement Action Plan - Sewerage Component of BEP2, March
2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Economic Analysis of Boiler Conversion and Sewerage (Background notes and
Spreadsheets)
2.    Procurement Capacity Assessment*
-93 -



3.    Financial Projection for SJET (Spreadsheet)
4.    Financial Projection and Analysis of BDC (Spreadsheet)
5.    Bank Mission Aide Memoires (November 1998, May, July, and December 1999)
C. Other
Major Policy Documents
Beijing Municipal Government, Urgent Measures for Air Pollution Control, 26 December 1998
Targets and Measures for Air Pollution Control. April 1999
Third Phase Measures for Air Pollution Control. 23 September 1999
Planning Group for Water Pollution Prevention in Haihe Basin, Plan for Water Pollution Prevention in Hai
River Basin, approved by the State Council on 11 March 1999.
Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau and Parsons Engineering, Beijing Environmental Master Plan
Studies, October 1996
Feasibilitv Reports and Other Technical Background Documents
Beijing Municipal Engineering Bureau, Beijing Municipal Engineering Design and Research Institute,
Beijing Urban Planning Design and Research Institute:
* Feasibility Study Report of Sewer Engineering of Liangshui He River System Project, #97P032, 1999
*  Feasibility Study Report of Zhengwangfen Wastewater Treatment Plant Project, #97P033, September
1999
* Feasibility Study Report of Sewer Engineering of Qing He River System-Project, #97P034, September
1999
*  Feasibility Study Report of Xiaohongmen WWTP and Sewer System, #99P001, September 1999
*  Feasibility Study Report of Wujiacun WWTP and Sewer System, #98P0 18, April 1999
* Feasibility Study Report of Lugouqiao WWTP, April 1999
Individual Consultant Team & Beijing Drainage Company, Final Report: Technical Review of
Wastewater Component Feasibility Studies for Second Beijing Environment Project, March 1999
*Including electronic files
- 94 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Revd
P040513        1996 China                     2ND HENAN PROV HWY                                 210.00       0.00       0.00     149.40      73.40      0.00
P003619        1998 China                     2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                               123.00       0.00       0.00     113.92      34.93      0.00
P003652        1996 China                     2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                               210.00       0.00       0.00      92.41      49.41      0.00
P051856        1999 China                     ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                                 27.40       5.61       0.00      30.88      11.29      0.00
P003559        1993 China                     AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                                 0.00     115.00       0.00       4.37       3.55      0.00
P050036        1999 China                     ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                               200.00       0.00       0.00     178.01      17.66      0.00
P003563        1996 China                     ANIMAL FEED                                        150.00       0.00       0.00     133.27     129.96     53.27
P049665        1999 China                     ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                                90.00      30.00       0.00      98.56       1.09      0.00
P003602        1996 China                     CH-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                         125.00      25.00      28.32      78.87      67.34      1.29
P003603        1995 China                     CHINA-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF             275.00      75.00      20.00     163.94     160.04     22,03
P057352        1999 China                     CHINA-FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT             16.00      30.00       0.00      44.84       2.99      0.00
P036414        1998 China                     CHINA-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT             72.00      20.00       0.00      88.11      12.48      0.00
P056491        1998 China                     CHINA-HEBEI EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION                0.00      28.40       0.00       0.43      -8.44      0.00
P003598        1995 China                     CHINA-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                 110.00       0.00       0.00      52.16      50.67      0.00
P003637       1997 China                      CHINA-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                       0.00      70.00       0.00      59.21     24.37      13.69
P040185        1998 China                     CHINA-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENTPROJECT                   95.00       0.00       0.00      79.99      39.19      0.00
P003586        1994 China                     CHINA-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                 160.00       0.00       0.00      54.64      53.93      0.00
P003648        1996 China                     CHINA-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT II                 250.00       0.00       0.00     123.99      95.70      0.00
P043933        1999 China                     CHINA-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT            150.00       2.00       0.00     152.02       4.00      0.00
P003580        1993 China                     CHINA-SO. JIANGSU ENVMT PROTECTION PROJ            250.00       0.00       0.00       3.25       2.45      0.00
P003568        1992 China                     CHINA-TIANJIN URBAN DEV& ENVMT PROJECT               0.00     100.00       0.00       9.46       6.44      2.98
P003599        1996 China                     CHINA-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                   125.00      25.00       0.00     132.17      49.33      -2.72
P003473        1993 China                     CHINA-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT               0.00     110.00       0.00      13.43      13.01      2.75
P036952        1997 China                     CN-BASIC ED. IV                                      0.00      85.00       0.00      23.90     -12.47      0.00
P0Z3950        1996 China                     CN-BASIC ED. POOR III                                0.00     100.00       0.00       1.03       0.84      0.00
P003636       1995 China                      CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR& MINORITY AREA II              0.00     100.00       0.00       0.99       3.04      0.00
P003566        1998 China                     CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                              0.00      85.00       0.00      75.76       9.70      0.00
P003646       1996 China                      CN-CHONGOING IND POL CT                            170.00       0.00     153.99      15.61     139.60      5.60
P003589       1996 China                      CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                        0.00     100.00       0.00      40.55      45.61      0.00
P036953        1999 China                     CN-HEALTH IX                                        10.00      50.00       0.00      56.75       1.89      0.00
P046051        1999 China                     CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                              20.00      50.00       0.00      64.39      11.80      0.00
P003624        1992 China                     CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES (HLTH5)                       0.00     129.60       0.00      22.92      18.39     18.35
P037156        1995 China                     CN-IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS CONTROL               7.00      20.00       7.00       0.31       9.98      2.98
P034618        1996 China                     CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                                10.00      20.00       0.00      21.33      23.10      0.00
P003634        1995 China                     CN-MATERNAL CHILD HEALT(HLTH6)                       0.00      90.00       0.00      12.53      15.30      0.00
P058308        1999 China                     CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                                0.00       5.00       0.00       4.98       2.63      0.00
P003602        1994 China                     CN-RURAL HEALTH MANPOWER (HLTH4)                     0.00     110.00       0.00      11.47      10.30      0.00
P003635        1997 China                     CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                             10.00      20.00       0.00       5.57      -0.30      0.00
P003653        1999 China                     CONTAINER TRANSPORT                                 71.00       0.00       0.00      70.29      45.19      0.00
P051736        1998 China                     E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                               250.00       0.00       0.00     234.74     185.74     46.34
P003647        1995 China                     ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                                  0.00      10.00       0.00       5.22       5.76      0.00
P003606        1998 China                     ENERGY CONSERVATION                                 63.00       0.00       0.00      61.20       6.29      0.00
P060270        1999 China                     ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                                 0.00       5.00       0.00       4.97       3.01      0.00
P003632        1993 China                     ENVIRONMENTTECHASS                                   0.00      50.00       0.00       9.25       9.67      8.06
- 95 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P003507       1996 China                      ERTAN HYDRO II                                   400.00      0.00        0.00     11.64      -2.28       0.00
P003623       1993 China                      FINANCIALSECTORTA                                  0.00      60.00       0.00     17.41      19.33      12.61
P036041       1995 China                      FISCAL & TAX REF. &                               25.00     25.00        0.00     40.04      41.95       1.61
P003557       1994 China                      FOREST RESOURCE DEV                                0.00    200.00        0.00     16.81       4.51     -40.92
P046952       1998 China                      FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                             100.00     100.00       0.00    177.75       0.28      23.16
P051705       1999 China                      FUJIAN 11 HWY                                    200.00       0.00       0.00    198.00      19.00       0.00
P003626       1994 China                      FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                              140.00       0.00       0.00     46.59      44.59      25.42
P003594       1996 China                      GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                               60.00      90.00       0.00    112.62      36.84       0.00
P003627       1993 China                      GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                             325.00     165.00       0.00    252.25     252.92      34.72
P003518       1993 China                      GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT                        240.00       0.00       0.00      0.62       0.62       0.11
P058843       2000 China                      GUANGXI HWY Preiact                              200.00       0.00       0.00    200.00       0.00       0.00
P003614       1998 China                      GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                             200.00       0.00       0.00    142.92      39.26       0.00
P051886       1999 China                      GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                              80.00     20.00        0.00     94.98      16.31       0.00
P003504       1994 China                      HEBEVHENAN NATIONAL                              380.00       0.00       0.00     16.22      16.22       0.00
P038988       1997 China                      HEILONGJIANG ADP                                 120.00       0.00       0.00     68.06      15.22       0.00
P003581       1993 China                      HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                            120.00       0.00       0.00      6.55       6.55       0.00
P035698       1998 China                      HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             300.00       0.00       0.00    300.00      60.75       0.00
P003654       1997 China                      HUNANIGUANG HWY2-NH2                             400.00       0.00       0.00    266.32     116.32       0.00
P049700       1998 China                     IAIL-2                                            300.00       0.00       0.00    249.28      42.48       0.00
P003493       1995 China                      INLAND WATERWAYS                                 210.00       0.00       0.00     37.43       3.83       0.00
P041890       1999 China                      LIAONING URB TRANSP                              150.00       0.00       0.00     141.50     27.50       0.00
P003540       1994 China                      LOESS PLATEAU                                      0.00     150.00       0.00      14.16     -16.92      0.00
P056216       1999 China                      LOESS PLATEAU II                                 100.00      50.00       0.00    143.62      22.75       0.00
P036949       1998 China                      NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                                  250.00       0.00       0.00    201.94      14.44       0.00
P041268       1999 China                      NAT.HWY4-HUBEIIHUNAN                             350.00       0.00       0.00    338.50      13.25       0.00
P003590       1997 China                      QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                              30.00     150.00       0.00    118.74      42.73       0.00
P003570       1993 China                      RAILWAYVI                                        420.00       0.00       0.00     44.56      44.56     -19.31
P003571       1995 China                      RAILWAYS VII                                     400.00       0.00     29.00     309.62     250.62      34.16
P003595       1994 China                      RED SOILS II DEVELOP                               0.00     150.00       0.00     30.88      19.62       2.94
P003592       1993 China                      REF. INST`L.& PREINV                               0.00      50.00       0.00     14.06      14.14       0.00
P046829       1999 China                      RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     100.00       0.00       0.00     100.00      0.00       0.00
P003638       1996 China                      SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                              80.00      20.00       0.00     59.17      26.72       0.00
P003622       1994 China                      SHANGHAI MTP II                                  150.00       0.00       0.00      6.75       6.75       0.00
P044485       1997 China                      SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                              400.00       0.00       0.00    361.22      36.42       0.00
P003569       1996 China                      SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG Hi                             260.00       0.00       7.75     78.35      50.61      42.60
P003649       1996 China                      SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                               0.00     100.00       0.00     25.87       5.96       0.00
P003585       1995 China                      SHENYANGiND.REFORM                               175.00       0.00       0.00     66.21      47.61       0.00
P003609       1994 China                      SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                   255.00       0.00       0.00     87.60      64.60       0.00
P036947       1995 China                      SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                             270.00       0.00       0.00     112.07    110.87       2.72
P045264       2000 China                      SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                              93.50       0.00       0.00     93.50       4.35       0.00
P003593       1994 China                      SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                 0.00     205.00       0.00     14.37       -3.68      0.00
P003639       1995 China                      SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                              47.50     200.00       0.00     60.13      46.40       0.00
P003591       1996 China                      STATE FARMS COMMERCI                             150.00       0.00       0.00     90.93       -7.47      0.00
P003539       1998 China                      SUSTCOASTRESDEV                                  100.00       0.00       0.00     83.18       3.18       0.00
P003597       1993 China                      TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                             100.00     100.00       0.00     23.81      19.46       5.01
- 96 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P046563       1998 China                      TARIM BASIN II                                    90.00      60.00        0.00     130.42,     27.24       0.00
P042299       1999 China                      TEC COOP CREDIT IV                                10.00      35.00        0.00      44.42,     -0.10       0.00
P003600       1995 China                      TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                             200.00       0.00        0.00      89.92,     59.33       0.00
P003633       1994 China                      TELECOMMUNICATIONS                               250.00       0.00       30.00      13.80,     43.80       5.40
P003616       1993 China                      TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                              300.00       0.00        0.00  62.05,6.70,    53.35       0.00
P003533       1993 China                      TIANJIN IND. II                                  150.00       0.00       40.35     320.00,     44.55       4.44
P056424       2000 China                      TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                             320.00       0.00        0.00     194.84,      0.00       0.00
P045768       1998 China                      TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                               230.00       0.00        0.00     338.73,     55.34       0.00
P003650       1997 China                      TUOKETUO POWERtINNER                             400.00       0.00       24.00     280.10,    235.68      22.02
P036405       1997 China                      WANJIAZHAIWATERTRA                               400.00       0.00        0.00     158.61,     67.10       0.00
P046564       1999 China                      WESTERN POVERTY RED                               60.00     100.00        0.00     219.17,     20.55       0.00
P034081       1997 China                      XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                             430.00       0.00        0.00  0.25,17.59,    125.60      0.00
P003562       1994 China                      XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                          460.00       0.00        0.00      20.67,      4.78       0.00
P003644       1994 China                      XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                            0.00     110.00        0.00     211.52,     10.45       0.00
P003612       1995 China                      XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                               150.00       0.00        0.00  9.26,39.65,    20.67       0.00
P003643       1997 China                      XINJIANG HWY II                                  300.00       0.00        0.00      47.48,    110.52       0.00
P003596       1995 China                      YANGTZE BASIN WATER                              100.00     110.00        0.00     103.68,     -6.70       0.00
P063123       1999 China                      YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                              40.00      40.00        0.00       12.88     15.39       0.39
P003641       1994 China                      YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                             350.00       0.00        0.00                 47.18       0.00
P003642       1995 China                      ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                              400.00       0.00        0.00                 12.88       0.00
P003534       1992 China                      ZHEJIANGPROVTRANSP                               220.00       0.00        0.00                 12.88      12.38
Total:    15790.40    3955.61      340.41     9799.06   3982.42    344.28
- 97 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999               Bank of Shanghai              0.00   21.76    0.00    0.00    0.00   21.76    0.00    0.00
1996               Beijing Hormel                4.28    0.50    0.00    4.40    4.28    0.50    0.00    4.40
1998               CIG Port Holding              0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998               Caltex Ocean                 21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00   21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00
1998               Chengdu Chemical              0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94         China Bicycles                0.00    0.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.95    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden JV               0.00    4.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.63    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden Mgt              0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994               Dalian Glass                  10.39    2.40    0.00   18.97   10.39    2.40    0.00   18.97
1999               Dujiangyan                   25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Dupont Suzhou                20.25    4.15    0.00   36.40   20.25    4.15    0.00   36.40
1994               Dynamic Fund                  0.00   12.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.70    0.00    0.00
1999               Hansom                        0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996               Jingyang                     40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00   40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00
1998               Leshan Scana                  6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    3.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996               NanjingKumho                  11.68    3.81    0.00   33.22   11.68    3.81    0.00   33.22
1995               Newbridge Inv.                0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00
1997               Ningbo                        0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Orient Finance                13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67   13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67
1997               PTP Hubei                     12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38
1994/97            PTP Leshan                    3.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Pacific Ports                 0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1998               Rabobank SHFC                 2.03    0.00    0.00    2.03    2.03    0.00    0.00    2.03
1998               Shanghai Krupp               30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Shanxi                        19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
1995               Suzhou PVC                   20.17    2.48    0.00   20.35   20.17    2.48    0.00   20.35
1998               WIT                           5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri              3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               YantaiCement                  11.43    1.95    0.00    6.10   11.43    1.95    0.00    6.10
1998               Zhen Jing                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      264.04   88.26    0.00  407.32  186.35   83.41    0.00  308.52
- 98 -



Approvals Pending Commitrnent
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              BOS RI                             0.00     0.00   3841.37      0.00
2000               CIG Hld ltd                       0.00     0.00   3000.00       0.00
2000               CIG Zhapu                      6000.00   5000.00      0.00      0.00
1998              Chengdu Chemical               7400.00      0.00      0.00   8600.00
1997              Chinefarge                     12800.00     0.00      0.00  20000.00
1998              Orient Fin A Inc               3333.33      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997              PTP Holdings                      0.00      0.00   1500.00      0.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                   0.00      0.00      0.00   1500.00
2000               Shizuishan Carbn               6300.00      0.00   1700.00   6000.00
1998              XIB                           50000.00      0.00  20000.00      0.00
1998              Zhen Jing                      4500.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     90333.33   5000.00  30041.37  36100.00
99 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Asia &      Low-
China    Pacific  income        Development diamond*
1998
Poniulatinn mid-vear(millions)                        1 2318      1 817      3 515                  Life expectancy
GNP oer canita (Atlas method. USSJ                       750        990        520
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       928 9      1 R02      1 R44
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Prnulation 1%1                                            1          1 2       1.7
Labor force f%l                                           1.3        1.6       19       GNP                I               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-981                                   capita                /         nrnfiment
Povertv (% of Donulation below national Dovertv line)      6           .         --
tirhan nonulltion (% of total Dooulation)                 33         35         31
I ife exnectanrv at hirth (vearsl                         70         69         63
Infant mortalitv (Der 1.000 live births)                  32         37         69
Child malnttrition (% of children under 5)                16         20                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of Dooulation)                    83         77         74
Illiteracv (%of nonulation aoe 15+i                       17         15         32
Gross nrimarvenroltment (% of school-aoe oooulationl     120        117        10R             China       Low-income group
Male                                                   120        1 19f      113
Female                                                 120        11R       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (USS billions)                            172.3    268.2      902.0      960.9
Gross domestic investmentlGnP                  28 5      36 1      38.2       3R.8                      Trade
Fxnnrts of noonds and servicesIflDP             4 8      13.6      23.0       19.1
Grnss domestic savinns/GlP                     29.0      36 2      42.6       43.4
Gross national savinns/GDP                     29 0      36 2      41 5       41.4
Current account balance/GDP                     0.2       0.1        3.8       3.4      Domestic                      Investment
Interest navments/GGP                                     0 4        0 6       0 7                 +stings
Total debt/GDP                                   ..    13.2         16.3      16.2      Savings
Total debt service/eynorts                                9 6        9 8       9.5
Present value of debt/GDP                         .         .       14.9
Present valuie nf deht/enoorts                                     62 7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averaae annual orowth)
GDP                                    9.8     10.3       8.8        7.8       7.0
GNP ner canita                         R5       RR        7.4        6.5       62               China       Low-income group
Exoorts of aoods and services         18.4     14.4      23.1        4.6       4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                             30
Aoriculture                                    29.4      26.8       18.7      18.0
Industrv                                       47.1      4319      49.5       49 2     20
Manufacturino                                31.1      34.4       37.3      36.8      10
Services                                       23 4      29.3      32.1       32 8
Private consumotion                            63.4     51.3       45.7       44.5             93   94   95   99   97   98
General novernment nonsumotion                  75       12.5       11.6      11 9                      GDI            GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                   4.2      13.5       18.5      14.3
laveraae annual orowtht                     1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998       Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Aoriculture                                     6.4       4.4        3.5       3.5    40
Industrv                                       10 9      14 1      10n         9 2     30
Mantifacturino                                11 4     13 4        9.9        89  
Services                                       12.7       8.6        8.2       76      20
Private consuimntion                            9.7       a 6        7 7       6 7
General aovernment consumotion                  9.0       9.9        8.2       8-4      o
Gross domestic investment                      107       11 7        7.6       76              93   94   9S   9e   97   98
lmoorts of ooods and services                  19.2      12.5      12.7        1 5                    Exports    -    Imports
Gross national nroduct                         10 0      100 n       8 5       7 4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouD averaoe. If data are missina the diamond will
he incnmnlete
- 1 00-



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  30
(% change)
Consumer prices                               ..      7.3       2.8     -0.8    20       .
Implicit GDP deflator                        1.6      5.1       1.2     -1.3    10
Government finance                                                                0       ,
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      53   94   s5   9s   97   so
Current revenue                                ..    21.5      12.0     12.8    -10
Current budget balance                         ..     4.2       0.6     -2.2               -GDP deflator         CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -2.1       -1.5     -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  39,437   182,792  183,757    200.000
Food                                        ..  4,781    11,075   10,619
Fuel                                        ..   4,544      6,987    5,181     150,00
Manufactures                                ..  26,206   158,838  163,157            .                    _ 
Total imports (cif)                           ..  43,216   142,370  140,166              _
Food                                        ..   3,055      6,308    6,463      50s,o_
Fuel and energy                             ..    539    10,306    6,773
Capital goods                               ..  21,110    57,930   61,915           o
Exoort Drice index (1995=1001                 ..      75        95        89
Imoort orice index ft995=1001                 ..      75         92       89                 *Exports      Impons
Terms of trade (1995=1001                     ..      99        104      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio ('h)
Exports of goods and services              8,550   39,120   207,251   207,589    4 1
Imports of goods and services              8,148   38,880   166,754  165,900
Resource balance                             402     240    40,497   41,689      2.
Net income                                    82    -215   -11,097  -13,428
Net current transfers                        -70     224      5,144    4,278     0                             9 _ _
92             95 9ss sr  97  srJ
Current account balance                      414     249    34,544   32,540    -2
Financing items (net)                       -320    4,534     1,313  -26,114
Changes in net reserves                      -94   4,783   -35,857   -6,426      - 
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)        ..  22.500   147.000
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USSI             1.9      4.5       8.3      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(USS millionsl                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  35,340   146,697  156,105
IBRD                                        ..   1,427      8,239    9,610                        A: 9,610
IDA                                               1,330     7,830    8,693             G: 29,473        B: 8,693
Total debt service                            ..   3,852    18,445   13,009                                    3,946
IBRD                                        ..    208        858       940
IDA                                         ..      12        81        97                                   E 21,862
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..    209        228
Official creditors                          ..    626       4,315    2,282
Private creditors                           ..   5,462      8,134      916
Foreign direct investment                   ..   2,314    44,236   45,000
Portfolioequity                             ..       0      8,457    1,153                F:82,521
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..   1,306      2,425    2,636     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..    702       2,275    2,061      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..      97       377       434      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ..    605      1,898    1,627
Interest payments                           ..    124        562       602
Net transfers                                      482      1,335    1,024
Development Economics                                                                                              921992
- 1 01 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS OF CARBON ABATEMENT
Development Goals and Global Environment Objectives
1.    Beijing's air quality has been persistently poor for many years. During the heating season, the
ambient concentration of major pollutants, such as sulfur dioxide and particulates, is so high over large
areas of the city as to pose long-term, and even acute, health risks (i.e. exceeding Class II and Class III
levels). The principal cause of the problem is the extensive use of coal, which supplies about 75% of the
city's energy needs. The major environmental damage from coal is caused by the numerous scattered
coal-fired heating boilers in use around the city, with their low emission stacks and minimal pollution
control equipment. Relatively energy-inefficient coal-fired district heating systems add to the pollution
problem.
2.     Until now, municipal pollution control measures have comprised a series of small-scale palliatives,
such as flue gas treatment, extension of district heating systems, and consolidation of scattered boilers into
large boiler houses with taller stacks and improved pollution control equipment. None of these measures
have had a significant impact. The recent switch to low sulfur coal will be more effective in decreasing
sulfur dioxide emissions, but has only a minor effect on particulates. Now the availability of natural gas
from Shanxii Province provides an opportunity to solve the local environmental problem of scattered
boilers by converting them from coal to natural gas, which will eliminate low-level releases of sulfur
dioxide and particulate matter. The conversion from coal to natural gas would also have significant global
benefits, as gas emits roughly half as much carbon dioxide as coal when burnt in heating boilers. This is
also a timely opportunity to launch an effective district heating energy efficiency program that would
further reduce GHG emissions.
Role of the GEF Alternative in Barrier Removal
3.     GEF support is required to remove the barriers to both coal-to-gas conversion and to district
heating energy efficiency improvement, as is envisaged under Operational Program 5 for the promotion of
energy conservation and efficiency. The incremental cost analysis that follows will show that gas
conversion and district heating system energy efficiency improvement involve significant incremental costs
for the Beijing government. It is therefore evident that, without GEF support, it will take many years to
realize the potential local and global environment benefits of these actions if Beijing has to rely solely on its
own limited financial means (Baseline Case). The grim Baseline scenario presented is, if anything,
optimistic though, because the numbers of initial gas conversions that are likely to result without GEF
support may well be too small for the gas conversion program to maintain any momentum and to justify the
high initial costs of gas infrastructure that Beijing has already incurred.
4.     Removing the Barriers to Gas Conversion. The primary group of boilers targeted for
coal-to-gas conversion under the GEF Alternative are scattered residential heating boilers, which are the
worst polluters. At least 2,500 conversions must be completed over a short (3-4 year) period to realize
potential economies of scale in gas boiler production, installation and service, and thereby sharply drive the
cost of conversion down to a level at which gas will be competitive with coal. GEF funds will complement
initial Beijing government conversion subsidies by financing the barrier removal initiatives required to
achieve this objective. With GEF assistance, a major global benefit can be obtained in the form of reduced
carbon dioxide emissions. Over a million tons a year of carbon release will be avoided, due to the lower
- 102 -



carbon content of natural gas (per heat value) and the higher efficiency of modem gas boilers.
5.    Barrier Removal to Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation. The second area requiring
GEF support is energy efficiency improvement of district heating systems (from boiler houses to the end
users) fired by coal fired boilers that are not yet targeted for gas conversion. With support from the GEF,
an Energy Conservation Unit (ECU) would be set up under the Residential Boiler Heating Office of the
Beijing Municipal Real Estate Bureau for the purpose of promoting and demonstrating heating boiler and
system energy efficiency and conservation. This would promote both techniques already selectively used in
Beijing and measures that are well established elsewhere, but new to China, such as end user gas instead of
heat distribution, use of condensing gas boilers, and end user heat metering and control.
6.    Unlike gas conversion, the critical needs are primarily to inform users of these options and their
economic benefits, and to promote them through audits, demonstrations and information. GEF funding
would be used for such marketing efforts to showcase new or innovative energy conservation measures.
This will include direct support for an information center, demonstration projects, and transaction costs for
energy audits and feasibility studies.
7.     GEF Strategic Context. This proposed project complements and does not duplicate the two other
Bank/GEF energy efficiency projects in China: Efficient Coal Industrial Boilers and Energy Management
Contracting. The former project is designed to overcome technology transfer barriers to the domestic
production of efficient coal boilers for industrial use. Such boilers are no longer acceptable in Beijing
because of their local pollution impacts. The proposed project will therefore target boiler types that have
not benefited from GEF support. The support for Energy Conservation Promotion in the space heating
sector would extend GEF support to a neglected energy efficiency market. It would complement and utilize
capacity that is being created by the Energy Management project.
Incremental Cost Analysis Method: Gas Boiler Conversion
8.    The incremental cost of achieving the global benefits of this component of the GEF Altemative is
based on the cost of converting the target of 5,000 scattered coal boilers from coal to gas during a period of
5 to 10 years, compared to a Baseline case. The former is termed the GEF case, or the With Case, while
the latter is referred to as the Base case, or the Without case.
9.     Base Case scenario. Without GEF support, barrier removal is not achieved in the short term and
in consequence far fewer than the programmed 5,000 boiler conversions will be achieved. It is assumed
that only 20 % of the coal boilers, those of the most financially sound operators, would be converted under
the Base Case. The remaining boilers would most likely adopt more conventional pollution control
measures. For example, some would be consolidated into district heating systems in order to obtain higher
system efficiencies, hence reducing emissions. Other old boilers would be retired and be replaced in kind
(i.e., with coal-firing). The newer equipment will likely perform at a higher level of energy efficiency and
pollution control. The remaining boilers would simply continue operating as per normal. The most likely
scenario is a mixture of all these cases, and the following combination is assumed under the Base Case:
Consolidation into district heating              20 %  (1000 boilers)
Continued use of existing boilers         40 %  (2000 boilers)
Replacement with new coal boilers         20 %  (1000 boilers)
Conversion to gas boilers                 20 %  (1 000 boilers)
Total                                            100%
- 103 -



10.     GEF Case. With the financial support of GEF grants for barrier removal and Beijing municipal
government subsidies, 2,200 boiler conversions will be directly supported. It is anticipated that the cost
reduction and capacity-building benefits and demonstration effect of this project will result in a total of
5,000 conversions within 5 to 10 years. This represents about 15,000 tons/hour of hot water and steam
demand, fulfilled more efficiently by gas and with lower carbon release.
11.     Incremental Cost Assumptions. The economic and financial analysis was completed for a
period of twenty years, assuming the two alternative scenarios have equivalent economic lives. The
analysis examined capital, operating and fuel costs for each of the two cases. It was assumed that the same
heat energy was delivered each year, and that the operating revenue would be the same in both cases. The
analysis is done on a pre-tax basis, with tax consequences disregarded based on the assumption that
cash-flows are equivalent. A discount rate of 12% was used.
Gas boiler efficiency is about 75-80% compared to 68% for consolidated district heating boilers.
Moreover, additional losses of 13% associated with the district heating system lowers the net efficiency to
about 53%. For the other Base cases, the efficiency of existing coal boilers is about 45% and new coal
boilers is 53%.
Capital costs vary with each option and include boiler and associated infrastructure for coal or gas. Boilers
are assumed to be of an average size of 3 ton/hour capacity. In the Base Case, land acquisition was
included for the case of district heating consolidation, since a significant amount of land is required to
construct the district heating plant and associated facilities. Land acquisition is not considered in all other
cases as this was insignificant, but an annual land rental cost was imputed by estimating the area
requirements for 3 ton/hr boilers.
Operating costs consist of fixed variable, annual variable and fuel. Costs, with the exception of
depreciation and fuel, are escalated at an annual rate of 6% for new and existing coal boilers in the Base
Case. Fuel costs are escalated according to the World Bank Commodity price forecast of the annual
percentage change in the price of crude oil.
For the financial analysis, depreciation and S02 taxes were included. For coal, economic and fnancial
prices were used from 2001-2005, after which it was assumed that financial and economic prices would be
similar. Assets, excluding land, were depreciated using 12 year fixed depreciation.
The following emission factors were used to estimate carbon emission rates:
Coal:  26 kg/GJ or 546 kg/ton of coal
Gas:  15 kg/GJ or 585 kg/1000 m' of gas
Incremental Cost Analysis Method: Energy Efficiency
12.    Without GEF support, additional district heating energy conservation initiatives would not be
pursued. The Baseline is therefore operation and maintenance of coal-fired district heating boilers that are
not targeted for conversion to gas in a "business as usual" mode. The GEF Alternative would upgrade and
improve the efficiency of these same boilers. It is estimated that the GEF alternative would reduce coal use
from its present average of 35 kg/m to about 25 kg/n of heating area, and result in energy savings of
about 30% over existing energy consumption levels. An estimated 14,000 tph of boiler capacity would be
targeted over a 20 year period, which is the duration of the incremental cost analysis.
-104 -



Economic And Financial Incremental Cost Analysis
13.   Economic Incremental Cost. The total economic net present value (NPV) for the Base Case is
Y38,143 M, compared to Y39,420 M for the GEF Alternative Case. The incremental cost of the gas
conversion and energy efficiency components combined is therefore Y1,277 M, or about US$154 M. The
breakdown of these costs between the two components is shown in the Incremental Cost Matrix. China is
seeking GEF grant support of $25 M (about 15%) of the incremental cost.
14.   Results of the financial analysis is shown principally to illustrate the impact of asset deprecation on
the abatement cost calculation. Under the financial method, the higher capital cost outlay for the Base
Case generates greater depreciation (e.g. for expenses), and thus a lower incremental cost for the GEF Case
and a lower abatement cost per ton of carbon.
Ta le 2: Summary of the Economic an i Financial Analvsis
NPV           NPV             NPV
Base Case     GEF Case   Incremental Cost  Abatement Cost
(Y million)   (Y million)     (Y million)     (US$/ton C)
Economic Analysis      38,143        39,420           1,277            5.73
Financial Analysis     39,750        40,383           633              2.84
Emissions Analysis
15.   Carbon abatement. For the gas conversion component, the annual carbon released in the Base
Case is 2.5 million tons in year 2001, falling to 2.1 million tons in year 2020. In the GEF Case, it is 2.2
million tons a year in year 2001, down to 1.4 million in 2020. For the conservation component, total
carbon abated from 2001 to 2010 is about 4.5 million tons. Over twenty years, a cumulative reduction of
about 26.9 million tons of carbon is realized in the GEF Case compared to the Base Case. The project's
estimated abatement cost, calculated per GEF guidelines, is therefore US$5.73/ton of carbon. The unit
abatement cost to the GEF for its proposed share of the incremental cost is $0.93 per ton carbon.
16.   Local Environmental Benefits. The project will produce considerable local environmental
benefits with decreased S02 and particulate emissions due primarily to the reduced combustion of coal
with some additional savings from coal handling as well. It is estimated that some 784,000 tons of sulfur
dioxide and 546,000 tons of total suspended particulates will be reduced over the project lifetime.
Although the benefit of this reduction is difficult to quantify, an estimation of medical costs associated with
these pollutants was made for a 1990 study of coal boilers. By updating the data for price and population
increases, the above reduction in the pollutant emissions is estimated to save about $49 million in present
value terns.
- 105 -



Table 3. Emissions Scenario Matrix
Baseline              Alternative           Net Reduction
Scenarios                             Several modes: coal         ainlv gas boilers, with Fuel switch reduces
district heating, scattered    some coal district  emissions and health
boilers, some gas          eatina                costs
Global Carbon Emissions, tons               _
5,000 Boilers                                46,182,095              23,885,136             22,296,960
Energy Conservation Measures                 11,384,100              15,937,740              4,553,640
8,200 Boilers                                75,809,514              39,171,623             36,637,891
Incremental Heating Capacity                 61,862,265              38,594,406              23,268,244
TOTAL                                       195,238,359              117,591,904             86,756,735
Local Emissions (5000 boiler conversion)
Particulates (tons)                _          686,229                  140,352                545,877
S02 (tons)                                    985,244                 201,509                 783,735
Table 4. Incremental Cost Matrix
Component 1: G  s Boiler Technology and Market Development
Baseline                     Alternative                  Increment
Features             Business as usual:           Proposed situation           New features
Consolidation of scattered coal  Barriers to introduction of gas    Wide-scale introduction of
boilers into coal-fired district    boilers are removed to allow  gas boilers has a carry-on
heating, with a small number    conversion of at least 5,000  effect supporting additional
converting to natural gas    coal boilers.                conversion
Domestic benefits    Substantial reduction in coal    Major reduction in pollution  Improved air quality in
consumption and emissions.                                targeted areas and a lower
_incidence of health nroblems
Global benefits      Energy efficiency improves   Major reduction in the carbon    Significant additional
and GHG emissions increase    emissions due to substitution of  reduction in carbon emission
more slowly.                 clean, energy efficient fuel
cost                 $4.59 billion                 S4.73 billion                $138.1 million
GEFProgram Costs: $33. 1
million, Grant: $16.5 million
Component 2: He ting Energy Conservation
Baseline                     Alternative                  Increment
Features             Business as usual            Proposed situation           New features
Continued use of inefficient  Improved heating efficiency  Development of best practices
coal boilers                 due to retrofit and better   and promotion of investments
management of heating boilers.  in energy conservation
Domestic benefits    Pollution and energy         Reduced fuel consumption and   Reduced fuel costs and health
consumption increase rapidly    S02 emission              costs
with economy
Global benefits      Carbon emission increases with  Reduced carbon emission    Reduced consumption of
increasing energy consumption                             fossil fuels and risk to global
climate
cost                                              $120 mtillion                 $120 million
GEF Program Costs: $13.6
million, Grant: $8.5 million
- 106 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Environmental Assessment Summary
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Project
Broad Environmental Objectives
Beijing, as China's capital has enjoyed unprecedented growth over the last decade but has also
suffered from new (autos) as well as traditional (coal and wastewater) sources of air and water pollution.
A number of environmental projects have sought to deal with these issues. From the Bank side, the first
Beijing Urban Environmental Project provided for institution building, wastewater treatment and collection,
and solid waste management. The present project will build on the success of these earlier efforts in
addressing the continuing environmental problems through:
(a)    conversion of small coal-fired boilers to natural gas;
(b)    measures to promote energy conservation in district heating systems;
(c)    building wastewater collection networks and associated treatment facilities in the Liangshui and
Qing River Basins; and
(d)    strengthening Beijing Municipality's environmental management policies and institutions.
Table 1. Project Components
Component                   Description                  Scale
Liangshui River wastewater    Sewerage network           Length: 48 km
collection and treatment system
Sewage treatment plants     Area: 82 ha (total)
Capacity: 88* 104 mn/day
(total)
Qing River Drainage Area    Sewerage network             Length 26 km
Boiler rehabilitation       Fuel switching from coal to  Total number: 2,555
cleaner fuel, gas           Total capacity: 6,792MW
Coal replacement of 93 million tons per year
Gas consumption: 750 million m
Decision supporting system for Air pollution control policy,    System for the whole Municipality
air quality management in   development of an air quality
Beijing                     management system, and
training
4. Regulatory and Policy Framework
An environmental assessment (EA) was prepared by the Beijing Municipal Research Institute of
the Environmental Protection Bureau. It was reviewed by the Bank and found to be in compliance with
Bank's guidelines and standards for such projects. The EA was also reviewed and cleared by the State
Environmental Protection Agency prior to its review by the Bank. The project is subject to the following
- 107 -



Chinese environmental and health and safety requirements:
(a) The design and implementation of the project should be consistent with the Master Plan and
General Environmental Plan of Beijing;
(b) The environmental discharges should meet applicable Chinese and Beijing Municipal regulations
and standards;
(c) Prohibitions of intentional spills in Liangshui River and Qing River drainage areas;
(d) Surface water quality of Liangshui and Qing Rivers;
(e) Odor prevention at the banks of Liangshui and Qing River banks; and
(f) Accidents prevention related to rehabilitation of boilers and air emissions and noise from their
operations.
The most significant guidelines relating to sewage treatment pertains to fecal coliform which specifies
a level of less than 1,000 MPN (most probable number) per 100 ml. Ambient air quality guidelines (1987
WHO Air Quality Guidelines for Europe) specify 24-hour average levels for fine particulates (PM 10) and
nitrogen oxides (NOx) of less than 150 ug/m'.
Baseline Information
Natural Conditions: Mountainous areas comprise about 62 percent of Beijing Municipality. The area
is also very dry with annual average temperatures of about 12 degree C; annual average precipitation at
about 630 mm; the dominant wind directions are south and northwest; the annual average wind speed is 2
to 3 meters per second; and the maximum depth of snow cover is 0.85 meters.
The sewage treatment project of the Liangshui River water system lies in the middle to upstream area
of the alluvial plain of the Yongding River. Groundwater is 40 meters below the surface in the porous
structure of quartemary unconsolidated sediments with good permeability and storage capacity.
Air Quality: In 1998, the annual daily average concentration of total suspended particles (TSP),
sulfur dioxide (S02), and nitrogen oxide was 78, 120, and 150 iglm, respectively, which are 89%, 100%
and 204% higher than the standard for the airshed. During the winter heating season, air pollution is worse
due to by poor dispersion associated with the unfavorable weather conditions. As a result, based on
statistics by the Beijing Environmental Protection Monitoring Center, the ambient air quality level met the
environmental standard only in 8 out of 52 weeks in 1998.
Water Quality: Of some 82 rivers in the Municipality, 59 do not meet the water quality standard.
Some 28% are above Class V, 43% are above Class IV, 92% are above Class III, and 100% are no better
than Class II. Only nine (9) out of 17 reservoirs are in compliance with water quality standards required
for drinking water supplies. An example is the Liangshui River which is heavily polluted with high levels of
CODcr, BOD5, NH3, phenol and petroleum. The main problems of groundwater quality are hardness and
nitrate-nitrogen. Groundwater near the suburban area is heavily polluted as well, whereas the groundwater
quality further away from the city is better.
Environmental Impacts
The EA outlines both positive and negative impacts on the physical, biological, and human
environment which may result from the implementation of the Project. The construction of collection
networks and treatment plants will result in minor impacts associated with those activities consisting
primarily of traffic congestion and fugitive dust and vehicular emissions. The overall impact of the Project
- 108 -



will be positive as a result of improved sanitary conditions throughout Beijing.
An effective public awareness plan will provide residents with information needed to improve personal
hygiene and improve sanitary conditions. It is important that sewage discharges near the banks of rivers
are completely eliminated and all the sewage is diverted to the sewerage networks. In general, odors near
the banks will be reduced and a reduction achieved in the incidence of water related diseases. The project
will collect and treat about 880,000 cubic meters of wastewater per day.
Fuel switching in boilers will reduce the atmospheric loading of particulate matter, sulfur oxides, and
nitrogen oxides compared to the baseline, thereby, resulting in improvement of ambient air quality and a
reduction in visible smoke. Reduction in S02 will be some 200,000 tpy and in TSP, 100,000 tpy.
Although the coal-to-gas component of Beijing Environment II will greatly reduce the air pollution of
Beijing city, the gas boilers will emit nitrogen oxides (1,300 tons per year) and carbon monoxide (260 tons
per year). The hot water boilers for the newly-built sewage treatrnent plants will release small quantities of
air pollutants (I ton per year of PM; 6 tons per year of sulfur dioxide; 3 tons per year of nitrogen oxides,
and 2 tons per year of carbon monoxide).
Noise pollution mainly comes from the fans in gas boiler houses and from blowers and pumps at the
sewage treatment plants.
Sludge Management:  A key area of importance is the safe handling and disposal of sludge generated in
the treatment processes. To date, the safest approach which has been used in China is to dispose of it in a
landfill and or to make it available to farners for soil conditioner after a period of stabilization. Both these
approaches will be used in conjunction with this project.
Environmental Management Plan: The EMP includes measures to mitigate adverse environmental impacts,
monitoring and evaluation system for assessing the implementation program, and institutional framework
for ensuring effective implementation. The following summarizes the proposed monitoring activities.
Construction Period
1.    Dust: TSP will be monitored at all sensitive work areas. Twelve (12) monitoring points have been
established. Five (5) measurement points are set along the strand of Liangshui River, five (5) along the
strand of Qing River, 1 each at of the three sewage treatment plants. At each point, 24-hour average TSP
will be measured every 15 days and the wind direction and velocity recorded at the same time. One
monitoring (1) point will be established for small boilers and 2 to 3 points for larger boilers.
Measurements will be taken once every month. Corrective action will be taken when needed.
2.    Noise: Noise will be monitored at eight (8) measurement points around the construction spots in
Liangshui River drainage area, five (5) along the Qing River, measured once every week (if construction
activities are proceeding at night, then monitoring will be performed at night). If deviations are noted, the
monitoring frequency will be increased to thrice a week. Four (4) measurement points have been set at
construction spots near boiler houses, measurements taken once every week. The acceptable daytime noise
level is 75 dB(a) and if it exceeds 85 dB(a), then ear plugs will be wom. The World Bank Environmental
Guidelines specify a noise level of 70 dB(a) in commercial areas at receptor points.
3.    Solid Waste: Solid waste will be loaded in enclosed vehicles. Pollution of water bodies will be
avoided and monitoring performed to ensure that there is no solid waste near water bodies.
- 109 -



4.     Sludge and Dredging Spoils: Sludge and clean sediments will be loaded separately during dredging
and transport vehicles covered to avoid spillage. The sludge disposal site will be such so as not to
contaminate groundwater and will have a ditch to collect surface run-on. Leachate will only be discharged
after treatment. The sludge will be covered the with clean top soil (with a cover of at least 0.5m thickness)
to reduce dust emissions and release of foul odor.
Operational Period
Rivers, wastewater collection systems and operations of the treatment plants will be monitored
during the life of the project. The drainage areas of the Liangshui and Qing Rivers will be monitored for
unlawful discharges, industrial discharges and for general indicators such as BOD5, COD, TSS, pH, oil
and grease, NH3-N, total N and total P on a monthly basis. The treatment plants will be monitored for
influent and effluent water quality and quantity, noise, odor and sludge management.
The gas-fueled boilers will be monitored for relevant parameters (NOx and CO). All accidents and
spills are to be reported to the appropriate environmental authorities promptly and the surrounding area
monitored for any impacts. Sample points are set at every stack of gas boilers. Monitoring parameters
include: sulfur dioxide & dust (for diesel only), nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide, once during start-up
and once a day during operations. Noise will be monitored as per the applicable regulations.
Public Participation
Ten specialists from different fields, representing the Standing Committee of the City or District
People's Congress, participated in public hearings associated with the environmental assessment. The
specialists concurred that implementation of this project will greatly improve ambient air quality and
surface water quality of the Liangshui and Qing Rivers. Construction of the sewerage network (including
interceptors) and sewage treatment plants will reduce the pollution load on the rivers. The specialists agree
with the recommendations of the Environmental Assessment report. They agreed with the feasibility study
for the Qing River on proper management of water resources in the rivers, and planting of trees along the
banks. They agreed that regulating discharges into the rivers and planting trees along the banks is
necessary and will improve environmental quality of Qing and Liangshui Rivers.
The public is perceived to be strongly dissatisfied with existing ambient air quality and surface water
quality. The investigations show that the present environment in Beijing is detrimental to human health and
to long term, sustainable development. They also point out that government should improve its
enforcement capabilities. The public considers in general that it is urgent to ameliorate the environmental
quality and that gas as altemate fuel for boilers and sewage management (including sewage collection in
sewerage network followed by proper treatment) are the most important environmental projects for Beijing.
The public has high expectations from this project. The public considers that proper environmental
management, training of staff, and establishment of a scientific monitoring system will ensure social,
economic, and environmental benefits from the project.
- 110 -



Details of consultations and disclosures during EA and RAP preparation are provided below:
Table 2 Public Consultation
Item              Participants         Date of         Location       Relevant Bank
Consultation                         Policy
EA, TOR & RAP       - EA team, PMO,       September 21,   Beijing Academy   OP 4.01:
outline review       BDC.                  1999           of Environmental   Consultation
- 10 experts from                     Sciences          prior to the
different sectors                                      finalization of
the EA TOR
Questionnaire       - EA team, PMOs,       September      Haidian District    OP 4.01& BP
distribution &       BDC.                 26-28, 1999     (Qinghe River      17.50
project information    - district governments,            Basin); Fengtai
(including main      district People's                    District
point of EA work &   Congress,                            (Liangshuihe
RAP) distribution    neighborhood                         River Basin)
committees, and
individuals
Draft report review  - EA team, BDC,      December 13,   Beijing Academy   OP 4.01:
SJET                 1999           of Environmental   Consultation
- 10 experts from                     Sciences          prior to the
different sectors                                      finalization of
the draft report
Public hearing for  - EA team, PMOs,      October 14,     Haidian district    OP 4.01:
the EA & RAP draft    BDC, SJET.           1999           Fengtai district   consultation
reports             - deputies of districts'    October 22,                  prior to the
People Congress,     1999                              finalization of
representatives of                                     the draft report
neighborhood
committees and
project affected
people
Field social        - Sociologists from   January 19-23,  Haidian &          OD 4.30
ecomonic survey for    Beijing University.    2000        Fengtai Districts
RAP                 - Consultation &      March 20 -
interviewed with     April 5, 2000
PAPs



Table 3 Information Disclosure
Document         Date of Disclosure        Location          Relevant Bank
Policy
EA, TOR & RAP        September 21, 1999    Beijing Academy of   OP 4.01, OD 4.30,
outline                                   Environmental        BP 17.50
Sciences
Project information  September 26-28,     Haidian & Fengtai
with main points in    1999               Districts
EA & RAP
Draft EA & RAP       October 14, 1999     Displayed for
reports              October 22, 1999     reading & reference
in the public hearing
meetings in Haidian
& Fengtai Districts
"Notice for          April 26, 2000       Local newspaper
Availability of EA &                      "Beijing Economics
RAP reports"                              Daily"
Final EA & RAP        April 2000          PMO, BDC, SJET
report
Resettlement         April 2000           PMO, BDC
information booklet
-112-



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Financial Mangement System Assessment Summary
CHINA: Second Beijing Environment Rroject
I.    Background
This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of the Project as conducted
by Yuahua Yu, Senior Disbursement Officer, EACCF, and Nancy Chen, Financial Management Specialist,
EASFS, on October 25th to 29th and in November I 1th, 1999, to deternine whether the Project has in
place an adequate financial management system as required by the Bank OP/BP 10.02. The review was
performned in accordance with the following:
   Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank Projects
(Prepared by Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, December 1997);
   Review of Financial Management System as stipulated in Annex II of LACI Implementation
Handbook; and
   Project Financial Management Manual issued by the Loan Department, February 1999.
The review consequently included procedures as were considered necessary and appropriate to
Project's circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation. As a result, the task team has
discussed and reviewed with the Municipal Finance Bureau (FB), Beijing Environment Project
Management Office (BEPO), and the implementing agencies: Beijing Drainage Corporation (BDC) and
Shihuan Jietien Energy Technology Co (SJET) about plans, procedures and guidelines for establishing a
sound project financial management system, inter alia, accounting system, staffing and training, internal
controls, project reporting, auditing and budgeting.
II.   Organization of Project Financial Management
BEPO has been established under the Municipal Planning Commission to oversee project
implementation and provide coordination between the Bank and the implementing agencies. The project
implementation will be undertaken by: BDC for the sewerage component and SJET for the boiler
component. BEPO would be responsible for overall project management and would include participation
of the Finance Bureau. In addition, a leading group headed by the Vice Mayor was established in May
1999 to strengthen the institutional leadership of the project.
Both BEPO and BDC have prior experience with implementing World Bank-financed projects
(Beijing Environment Project) and have accumulated extensive experience with both the Bank and MOF's
requirements in preparation and processing of withdrawal application and financial management of
Bank-financed projects. However, SJET is a newly established limited liability joint venture, composed of
Beijing Comprehensive Investment Company (60%), Beijing Gas Group Corporation (30%) and Beijing
Yuanshan Energy Conservative Technology Corporation (10%). Therefore, a comprehensive training will
need to be provided to SJET project staff.
- 113-



III.  Loan Disbursement Arrangements
The Project will be disbursing on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and Ministry of Finance
(MOF).
Two Special Accounts (SAs) will be set up with the BEPO, who will reconcile the SAs, check and
monitor withdrawal applications and to verify payment requests meet Bank requirements. Applications for
withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan and for replenishment of SA will be prepared and submitted to the
Bank by the BEPO. MOF will on-lend the loan to BMG, who will in turn on-lend, via the Beijing Finance
Bureau, to BDC and SJET at the same terms and conditions. Both BDC and SJET will verify the
accuracy and validity of its respective expenses submitted, progress reported and prepare requests for
payment. The requests for payment will be further reviewed and approved by BEPO before submitting to
the Bank.
Original invoices and backup documents will be retained at point of initiation. BEPO will retain
copies of withdrawal applications and copies of supporting documents.
IV:  Financial and Accounting System
In line with other Bank-financed projects in the People's Republic of China, the Project will follow
the Construction Accounting Standards issued by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of
financial statements and project reports. These standards dictate the format of financial statements, Chart
of Accounts and related instructions which would therefore affect project accounting and reporting
requirements. Accrual accounting and double entry basis will be adopted.
Project accounts will be maintained by the BDC and SJET, respectively, and further consolidated
and submitted by BEPO on a semi-annual basis to the Bank, by October 1 and April 1, covering the first
and second half of the year, respectively.
V.   Internal Controls
A well designed internal control system is one of the key elements critical to the success of a
project. A draft Financial Management Manual (the Manual) has been prepared by the BEPO and
reviewed by the Bank. The Manual is supplemented by detailed financial management procedures
developed by BDC and SJET, respectively. The objective of the Manual is to document the operational
procedures and guidelines for project financial management, encompassing all levels of project
management. The scope of the Manual encompasses the following key elements:
  Project financial management structure and staffing;
  Identification of the accounting standards to be used by the Project and all the participating
agencies (e.g. tailored Chart of Accounts to project specifics and sample accounting treatments);
 Key internal control features such as a system of authorization, verification, reconciliation and
project reporting to provide adequate control over project costs, cash and asset management and
segregation of incompatible duties;
  Reporting formats tailored to project specifics;
  Fixed assets management;
  Procedures for procurement, disbursement, counterpart fund management and loan repayment
management;
-114 -



 Budgetary procedures; and
 Auditing arrangements
To strengthen project management and provide guidance in financial information preparation and
reporting, well-defined roles, job description and detailed operational procedures in the aforementioned
aspects have been documented in the Manual under the recommendation by the task team. The draft
Manual is expected to be finalized by the end of the project appraisal.
SJET, the financial intennediary and implementing agency of the boiler conversion component, will
be a revenue earning entity. An assessment of the financial performance of SJET will be conducted by the
task team going forward, as SJET was recently established. To minimize the operating risks with respect
to converting non government owned boilers, SJET will conduct a comprehensive appraisal of users. This
appraisal includes review of operating records and financial status of boiler owners, and availability of
counterpart funds. A draft appraisal manual will be reviewed by the Bank. The task team should also
ensure the financial viability SJET; operating losses, if any, will be covered by the shareholders or
guaranteed by the municipal government.
Regarding the audit findings of the previous project, the auditors noted no material internal control
weaknesses during the audit of Beijing Environment Project Office (BEPO). However, the auditors noted
negative signs such as delay in counterpart funding and repayment capacities of some of the industrial
subprojects. With respect to the audit of Beijing Drainage Company (BDC), the auditors noted that BDC
did not comply with the Loan Agreement to operate on a commercial basis. Instead, fees were collected
based on rates prescribed by relevant authorities. These issues will be followed up by the task team
during the next supervision mission.
VI.  Staffing and Training
The Finance and Accounting Department has been established at the BEPO, BDC and SJET,
respectively. In order to have a sound financial management of the project, it was agreed that each agency
mentioned above will be staffed with one chief accountant, one project accountant who has overall
responsibility for maintaining the project accounts and preparing financial statements and one cashier who
processes cash receipts and expenditures. The Bank has received a staffing list and noted that the
accountants at BEPO, SJET and BDC have six to twenty five years of experiences. See Attachment II:
Staff List for details.
The task team recommended that a well designed and focused training be provided by the BEPO
during the Project Launch Workshop, to ensure that staff understand financial management requirements.
The Bank plans to readdress in details the major aspects of project financial management and reporting
requirements during the Project Launch Workshop. It is suggested that this training should include such
features as:
 Bank procedures and the project financial management requirements on the withdrawal of Bank
funds;
  Overview of the project financial statement formats;
  Review of project Financial Management Systems Manual;
  Procurement procedures;
  Project audit requirements.; and
  Accounting software and its applications
- 115-



VI1.  Project Reporting Requirements
The format and content of the following project financial statements represent the standard project
reporting package agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with all
parties concerned. The project financial statements will be submitted to the Bank on a semi-annual basis
and include the following 4 statements:
  Balance Sheet;
  Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component;
  Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
  Statement of Special Account
VIII.  Audit Arrangements
The Bank requires the Project financial statements audited in accordance with standards acceptable
to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the Project will be audited in accordance
with Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition). The Beijing Audit
Bureau has been identified as the auditors for the Project. The audit including opinions on financial
statements, Special Account, Statement of Expenditures and Internal Control Memorandum will be
scheduled for submission to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each calendar year.
IX.   Budgeting
Project budget will be prepared annually by the BEPO based on submissions prepared by the BDC
and SJET. BEPO will consolidate budgets approved and submit for the Bank review and approval by
November 30 of each year. For BDC the counterpart funds will be provided by the Beijing Finance
Bureau. For SJET the counterpart funds will be provided by the boiler end-users; the availability of
counterpart funds is one of the evaluation standards used by SJET. (See Section V: Internal Controls for
more information.) Details of budget preparation, approval and counterpart funds management have been
documented in the draft Manual.
X.    Conclusion
Pending addressing the issues outlined in the action plan, on Attachment I, the task team has
determined that the Project will satisfy the Bank's financial management requirements as required by
OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project will have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with the project management office and as required by
the Bank.
-116-



Attachment I
PROPOSED ACTION PLAN
Description                    Responsibility       Target Date
A. Project Financial Management Systems
Manual/Controls
1. BEPO Manual finalized and reviewed by Bank     BDC, Bank          Negotiations
2. BDC and SJET Manuals finalized and reviewed by  BDC, SJET,         Negotiations
Bank                                                Bank
B. Staffing
1. CVs of accountants to be hired by BDC provided to  BDC, Bank        Received
the Bank for review.
2. Accountants of BEPO commence work.            BEPO, Bank          Effectiveness
3. Draft boiler user Appraisal Manual finalized   SJET, Bank         Revisions and
finalization as condition
of effectiveness
C. Training
1. Project Launch workshop to all relevant staff on:  BEPO, Bank     Effectiveness
a. Bank and the project financial management
requirements including withdrawal of Bank
funds.
b. Project financial statements formats.
c. Project Financial Management Systems
Manual.
d. Project audit requirements.
e. Procurement procedures.
2. Project accounting software
D. Special Accounts
1. Obtain domestic clearances for opening of SAs.   BEPO             Effectiveness
2. Authorized signatures sent to MOF and Bank.   BEPO, Bank           Effectiveness
3. First withdrawal application sent to the Bank for  BEPO         After Effectiveness
initial deposit.
E. Finalize the On-lending Terms and Conditions  BEPO, BDC,           Negotiations
SJET, Bank
F. Provide close supervision of SJET operations to  Bank, SJET         On-going
ensure that early warning signals are properly
monitored and appropriate actions are taken, to
prevent deteriorating operating conditions.
-117 -



Attachment II
STAFF LIST
Department of Financial Management of Beijing Environmental Project Office
Narne             Position    Education Background     Professional Title  Work Experience
Mr. Zhang Guoqing Chief       Bachelor, economic       Accountant       8 years WB project
financial management
Ms. Ming Dengli   Accountant Bachelor of literature and   Assistant     5 years WB and ADB
diploma in financial    accountant       project financial
management                                management
Ms. Jin Jianhong    Cashier   Bachelor of computer     Junior accountant 4 years ADB project
science                                  financial management
SJET Financial Department
Name               Position    Education Background    Professional Title  Work Experience
Ms.Fang Xiujun     Chief      Bachelor, economic       Accountant       8 years accounting
Ms. Yin Jianhua    Accountant Bachelor, economic       Accountant       6 years accounting
Ms. Liu Jianwen    Cashier    Professional training    Accountant       25 years accounting
school
Beijing Drainage Company Financial Department
Name              Position    Education Background     Professional Title  Work Experience
Mr. Xie Hongdong  Chief       College graduate         Accountant       25 years accounting
Ms. Zhag Jingming  Accountant College graduate         Accountant       19 years accounting
Ms. Tian Yanling   Accountant College graduate         Accountant       24 years accounting
Ms. Li Caixia     Cashier     Professional training    Junior accountant 16 years accounting
school
- 118-



, R : , , f Li} .:: < sX7j;' .' '.V   'T                                                                     4 t, " .   '.' H     '' N"' Y|,' i                      , ,, $aF          C H IN A
+ ,! ; < u r:: X 1E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
. t ., . ' . 4_ . .... ' ' ' , ' : : ' "; ' ' ' ' ' X e i @" ' ' ' t ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ., ... , , X T , , ,,, Q :, F WASTEWATER FA~~~~~~~~~~~ASTEWAER FACUTIES
/ i + <z i@ 9i 5 $iv ..............  ! .-" .; : " % , . t__ :',  , . '  ', '  X  ',  ,:   .    ,, < 4   .  */  ' . .   '  , ' ', ',,  t   ,  -,, ' 9  ,  1-fl   T AT NT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
r'is 9~~~~~~~~ e< . {. . . {. i, ,, @ \ ' 1 L " ' ' , A , , < T t )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RETMNTPLNT
, , , N;,, ,.,,  ,, ;. :. ;,i ;  . '               A                                                                                                                          AR POIU  ON CO,.AN?TADS
ftof> o                  :     gA;  W :                                 ./+                        \     i    ia     .,.                          ?}                    .  : uDEcSTRIclo
%' ' ?>~~~~~~~~Rwgt, ,,w:S,<,< ,,,,   , ,/  , , , ; ,  ,,   X         i  >j >    >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE
; " '  ' "  '"'"' ' "; '":' 5' ' '  "  .'' <t   Jl4<iW   .'. /',  'i l:    :::: ivoitDEgCT  SXIAOH
Jv tig E ' '-, . ti i<tX: t dr L X A E t KIL04?TERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M RAD
i*,,: S .:,, , :i; {\ - . T S > '. ''/' tL ........................................................................................ _.'<F g * 9 : t | 7>  .   ;MAIN ROADS
V4  / S S ;(S fi XH L Xi - <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                0   i2   i    T4?  6 .    
.: \. . <, .   ,, ,',!i., ,;.>t,    g t < ,  ,  /. , <      <             '      <               ,E f i    ,. |    ,     , i.  . ' ,   $--;-.,.>~~~~~T
" 0 " 'Wi ', i,, ,. ,, loog  ' L: , : :......................................................................................................................... ,,. . ,:  : .\ ,. '  <   .  j
, ,,, ,. 6   A   ,,SH U    , ,     jiji ' ' ""NG' : : ,i,S,H A N:"  ',,.   
$/ 5wn avlf 'S ,% a,ut X _ aStt tS 0 ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '' >1%*e Ln,~~~~~~~~~~11



