Page  1
April 26, 2001
Ms. Zou Jiayi
Acting Director General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing
People’s Republic of China
Mr. Mend Xuenong
Executive Vice Mayor
Beijing Municipality
C/o Beijing Environment Project Office
Ding 2, Southern Street
Fuxingmen, Xicheng District
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Dear  Ms. Zou and Mr. Meng:
Re:
Second Beijing Environment Project 
(Ln. 4566-CHA; GEF Trust Fund Grant No. TF 024121-CHA)
Amendment to Project Agreement
1.
I refer to the Loan Agreement between the People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
(the Loan Agreement), the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility, (Grant Agreement) and the Project Agreement between Beijing 
Municipality (Beijing) and the Bank (Project Agreement), all dated October 10, 2000.  
I also refer to the letter dated March 28, 2001 from Mr. Ju Kuilin, Deputy-Director 
General, International Department, requesting amendments to the Project Agreement by 
extending the date for compliance with certain covenants. 
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with the above request and 
hereby agrees to amend the Project Agreement as provided below.
3.
Paragraphs 8 and 9 of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
"8.
BDC shall undertake to have in place by November 30, 2001, consultants to 
be responsible for: 
(a)
carrying out the analysis described in paragraph 9(a) below; and 
(b)
assisting in the implementation of Part B of the Project. 
9.
With respect to Part C of the Project, BDC shall undertake: 
(a)
to carry out, based on the IDP and in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, an analysis of the institutional development 
of BDC as an entity with: (i) an independent governance structure under the 
Company Law, including the establishment of a Board of Supervisors, (ii) 
financial independence to retain and use revenues from sewerage tariffs, and 
(iii) legal ownership of and responsibility for all sewerage and drainage 
facilities in the Beijing urban districts, and furnish to the Bank for comments 
by October 1, 2002,  the results of such analysis together with a time-bound 
action plan; and 
(b)
to begin implementation of said action plan by December 31, 2002, 
taking into account the Bank’s comments."
4.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower and Beijing to the amendments set 
out above by countersigning and dating the confirmation below, and returning to us one 
fully signed original of this amendment letter.  One fully signed original should be 
retained by the Borrower and another fully signed original should be retained by 
Beijing.  
Page  2
5.
Except as specifically amended in this letter, all other provisions of the 
Project Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Bank of a copy 
of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized representative of the 
Borrower and Beijing, the above amendment shall become effective as of the date of 
countersignature by the Borrower or the date of countersignature by Beijing, whichever 
date is later.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Austin Hu
Acting Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Authorized Representative
Deputy Director General, International Department, Ministry of Finance
Date: April 28, 2001
CONFIRMED
BEIJING MUNICIPALITY 
By /s/ Guo Jungqing
Director, EPMO, Beijing Municiple WB & ADB Loaned Projects Leading Group and Deputy 
Director Beijing Municiple Development Planning Commission
Date: April 28, 2001
