Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 024121-CHA
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Second Beijing Environment Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated October 10, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF024121-CHA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 10, 2000, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of 
the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; 
(D)
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional financing 
towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Recipient and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to three hundred forty-nine million Dollars 
Page  2
($349,000,000) (the Loan); and
(E)
The Project will be carried out by Beijing with the Recipient’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make available to 
Beijing the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement for 
purposes of carrying out Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank, acting on its own behalf and as an implementing agency of GEF, and Beijing;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through October 6, 1999, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (15), (16), 
(17), (19) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), 
(o) and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
Page  3
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Persons" means persons who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and "Affected Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
(b)
"Beijing" means the Beijing Municipality, an administrative sub-division 
of the Recipient, and any successor thereto. 
(c)
"Beijing Drainage Company" and "BDC" mean a state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to its Charter of 1993 and to Business License No. 
1101021302158(1-1), dated June 28, 1999, issued by Beijing Xicheng District Industrial 
and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto.
(d)
"BEPB" means the Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau which is 
responsible for, inter alia, environmental management in Beijing.
(e)
"Boiler Conversion" means a proposal under Part A(1) of the Project by an 
Enduser to replace its coal-fired boiler or boilers with a gas-fired boiler or 
boilers.
(f)
"Boiler Sale and Purchase Contract" means the agreement referred to in 
Section II, paragraph 7(a) of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, to be entered into 
between SJET and an Enduser, as said agreement may be amended from time to time.
(g)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(h)
"Company Law" means the Borrower’s Company Law, promulgated on December 
29, 1993 and made effective on July 1, 1994.
(i)
"Enduser" means an entity or individual that owns one or more coal-fired 
boilers and applies to SJET for a Boiler Conversion.
(j)
"Environmental Assessment" means the Second Beijing Environment Project 
Environmental Assessment dated April 2000, which includes an environmental assessment 
of the implementation of Parts A(1) and B of the Project, environmental mitigation 
measures and the administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of such measures. 
(k)
"Gas Boiler" means a gas-fired boiler and associated equipment essential 
for the operation and maintenance of such boiler.
(l)
"Heating Energy Conservation Center" and "HECC" mean the Heating Energy 
Conservation Center established and maintained pursuant to paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
(m)
"IDP" means the Institutional Development Plan of Beijing Drainage 
Company dated November 1999, which sets out a broad framework for improving the 
management of BDC and restructuring BDC as an autonomous enterprise. 
Page  4
(n)
"Operations Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
developed by SJET pursuant to Section II, paragraph 6(a) of Schedule 3 to the Project 
Agreement, as such manual may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of 
the Bank.
(o)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank, acting on its 
own behalf and as an implementing agency of GEF, and Beijing of even date herewith, as 
the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(p)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
(q)
"Respective Part of the Project" means 
(i)
for SJET:  Parts A(1) and A(2) of the Project; and
(ii)
for BDC: Parts B, C and D of the Project. 
(r)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the Resettlement Action Plan for 
Sewerage Component of Second Beijing Environment Project, dated March 29, 2000, which 
sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation for 
Affected Persons under Part B of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as such Resettlement Action Plan may 
be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
(s)
"SJET" means Shihuan Jietien Energy Technology Company, a limited 
liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of September 7, 
1999; and to Business License No. 1101021094879 dated November 17, 1999, issued by 
Beijing Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(u)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Beijing and SJET pursuant to paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, with the agreement of the 
Bank, and such term includes any schedules to said agreement.
(v)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements to be 
entered into between Beijing and each of SJET and BDC pursuant to paragraph 4(a) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to said 
agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means either one of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts A(2) and A(3) of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
Page  5
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause Beijing to carry out the Project and to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Beijing therein set forth, 
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Beijing 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to Beijing on a grant basis, without any deduction of any charge, commission 
or fee of any kind from the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Recipient hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by Beijing pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance withsound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account or payment out of the Special 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
Page  6
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section, including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Beijing shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Beijing will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement, or
(B)
the Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of 
its obligations under the Loan Agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement.
(d)
Beijing, SJET or BDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
Page  7
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the parties 
thereto. 
Section 6.02. The following event is specified as an additional matter, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement between Beijing and SJET has been duly authorized or ratified by Beijing and 
SJET and is legally binding upon Beijing and SJET in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
(86-10)-68551125
Beijing 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
      INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
      Washington, D.C.   64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Page  8
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment       
   Facility
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
  GEF Trust Fund Grant 
   % of
  (Allocated Expressed 
Expenditures
Category
    in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Parts A(2) 
  9,400,000
100% of foreign
and A(3) of the 
expenditures, 100% of
Project
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 70%
of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally.
(2)
Consultants’ services 
  9,500,000
100%
and training under 
Parts A(2) and A(3) 
of the Project
TOTAL              18,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; provided, however, that: 
(i) expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Recipient for goods or services supplied from said region; and (ii) expenditures in 
the currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Recipient for goods or 
services supplied from said region, shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures under the Project prior to the date 
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 
1,900,000 for expenditures under Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after December 31, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
Page  9
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; 
(b)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals, each 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent or $50,000 equivalent respectively; and
(c)
training, regardless of the cost thereof, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Beijing in alleviating air and water 
pollution through: (a) promotion of natural gas as an alternative to coal as a fuel 
source for boilers; (b) promotion of energy conservation in district heating systems; 
(c) building of sewage collection networks and treatment facilities in the Liangshu 
River and Qing River basins; and (d) strengthening of Beijing’s environmental 
management policies and institutions. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Air Pollution Control
Improving air quality in selected areas in Beijing through: 
(1)
Boiler conversion 
Conversion or replacement of medium-sized coal-fired boilers to or with 
gas-fired boilers.
(2)
Technical capacity and market development
(a) Development of efficient models of gas-fired boiler equipment 
configurations, installation and maintenance; (b) development of industry capacity for 
provision of gas-fired boiler assembly, installation and maintenance services; and (c) 
development of markets for gas-fired boilers, all through the provision of 
consultants’ services, training and equipment.
(3)
Heating energy conservation
(a) Establishment of best practice models and standards for energy efficient 
heat generation, for heat distribution and operation of associated heat supply systems 
and for promotion of energy conservation by end-users; (b) codification, dissemination 
and promotion of said models and standards; and (c) strengthening of institutional 
capacity to carry out foregoing activities, all through the provision of consultants’ 
services, training and equipment.
(4)
Air quality monitoring and management
(a) Enhancement of institutional capacity to monitor and evaluate air quality 
through upgrading and expansion of monitoring stations and analytical equipment; and 
(b) improvement of institutional capacity to manage air quality through provision of 
consultants services, training and equipment. 
Page  10
Part B:
Wastewater Management
Improving water quality through:
(1)
Liangshui River Basin
Construction of three secondary wastewater treatment facilities and associated 
sewage collection networks, including about 48 kilometers of interceptor sewers in the 
Liangshui River Basin.
 (2)
Qing River Basin 
Construction of a sewage collection network, including about 26 kilometers of 
interceptor sewers and siphons, in the Qing River Basin. 
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
Developing and strengthening institutional wastewater management capability and 
capacity to operate on an autonomous basis, through provision of consultants services, 
training and equipment.
Part D:
Resettlement 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time 
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000, to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $1,300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account allocated to the eligible Categories for said Special 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A(2) and A(3) of 
the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
Page  11
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
Page  12
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
