Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4566 CHA
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF024121
Project Agreement
(Second Beijing Environment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting on its own behalf and
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
BEIJING MUNICIPALITY
Dated October 10, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4566 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 10, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting on its own behalf and 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and 
Beijing Municipality (Beijing).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equal to three hundred forty-nine million Dollars ($349,000,000) 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that Beijing agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)  by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
(the GEF Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between the People’s 
Republic of China (Recipient) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, acting as an implementing agency of the 
GEF (the Agency), the Agency agreed to make available to the Recipient an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,900,000); and
WHEREAS Beijing, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Page  2
Loan Agreement with the Borrower and the Agency’s entering into the GEF 
Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the GEF Grant Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined in the Loan Agreement) and the preamble 
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Beijing declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and 
Schedule 2 to the GEF Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
cause SJET to carry out Part A(1) of the Project;
(ii)
cause SJET, in coordination with HECC, to carry out 
Part A(2) of the Project;
(iii)
cause BDC to carry out Parts B, C and D of the 
Project; and 
(iv)
carry out Parts A(3), A(4) and D (as appropriate) of 
the Project, of which 
Part A(3) shall be carried 
out through HECC and Part A(4) shall be carried out 
through 
BEPB, 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, financial, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Bank and Beijing shall otherwise agree, 
Beijing shall carry out, or cause the Project to be carried out, in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Beijing shall carry out the obligations or cause 
to be carried out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
Page  3
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of this Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, Beijing shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and Beijing, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Beijing on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Beijing shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
Beijing shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, or the performance by Beijing of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) Beijing shall maintain, and shall cause each of 
SJET and BDC to maintain, records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
Beijing as well as SJET and BDC responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
Beijing shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Loan Agreement and the GEF Grant Agreement become 
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of 
Beijing thereunder shall terminate on the later of the following two 
dates: (a) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or (b) the date on which the Grant Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly 
notify Beijing thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall 
also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Beijing:
Beijing Environment Project Office
Ding 2, Southern Street
Fuxingmen, Xicheng District
Beijing 100031
People’s Republic of China 
Facsimile:
86-10-6411638
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of Beijing may be taken or executed by its Mayor or Vice-Mayor, or 
by such other person or persons as Beijing shall designate in writing, 
and Beijing shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  5
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting on its own behalf and as an Implementing 
Agency
of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
BEIJING MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works contracts under Part B of the Project shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 
Page  6
of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable: (a) contracts for works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $15,000,000 equivalent or more each; 
and (b) contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $15,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $157,850,000 equivalent 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $10,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
Page  7
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for 
Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for technical assistance in relation to Part C of the 
Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts A(2), A(3) and A(4) of the Project that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms (i) estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, and (ii) for the provision of training regardless of cost, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000 the procedures set forth in 
Page  8
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the 
Implementation Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or 
referred to below.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Beijing 
shall maintain:  
(a)
a project management office (the Beijing Environmental 
Project Office, also referred to as “BEPO”), with functions satisfactory 
to the Bank, staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be 
responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of Project 
implementation, the supervision of procurement of goods and services 
thereunder; the overall assessment of quality and impact of the Project 
and the preparation and furnishing to the Bank of reports and other 
information thereon; and
(b)
a Beijing Environment Project Leading Group, chaired by a 
Vice Mayor of Beijing, to be responsible: 
(i)
for provision of overall policy guidance in the 
Project; and 
(ii)
in respect of Part C of the Project, for: (A) 
oversight of the restructuring 
of sewerage services in 
Beijing until a supervisory body, satisfactory to the 
Bank, is established to regulate the provision of such services; 
and (B) 
maintaining qualified personnel in 
adequate numbers to monitor and report and 
make 
recommendations on the institutional development of BDC.
Resettlement Action Plan and Environmental Assessment
2.
Beijing shall take and, where appropriate, shall through BDC take, 
all measures necessary to ensure that the Project shall be carried out in 
accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental 
Assessment.
3.
Beijing shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement 
Page  9
Action Plan or the Environmental Assessment shall be furnished to the 
Bank for prior approval.
Subsidiary Loan  and Grant Agreements
4.
Beijing shall:
(a)
Lend portions of the proceeds of the Loan to SJET and BDC 
for the purposes of carrying out their Respective Part of the Project, 
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between Beijing and 
each of SJET and BDC: (i) on the principal terms set forth in Section I 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) under conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank and which shall include, without 
limitation, those set forth in Section II Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Make available, on a grant basis, a portion of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to SJET for purposes of carrying out Part 
A(2) of the Project under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into 
between Beijing and SJET on conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank.
5.
(a)
Beijing shall:
(i)
cause SJET and BDC, each to perform, in accordance 
with the provisions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement to which said 
entity is a party, all of the obligations of said entity therein 
set forth; 
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, 
facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
SJET 
and BDC to perform such obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere 
with such performance; and 
(b)
Beijing shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement to which it is a party in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and 
Beijing, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Subsidiary Grant Agreement to which Beijing 
is a party or any provision thereof.
Heating Energy Conservation: Part A(3) of the Project
6.
Beijing shall establish by October 31, 2000, and thereafter 
maintain, a Heating Energy Conservation Center within the Beijing 
municipal government, which Center shall be staffed with personnel, in 
adequate number and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Bank, to be responsible for: (a) the implementation of Part A(3) of 
the Project, and (b) development and promotion of a sustained and 
systematic program of heating energy conservation. 
Monitoring and Reporting
7.
Beijing shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project, including the 
Page  10
Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental Assessment, as well as the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, the following semi-annual reports on February 15 
and August 15 in each year, beginning on February 15, 2001, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph 7(a) of this Schedule 2, on the physical and 
financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
preceding semester (the report due on August 15, 2002, to summarize 
progress achieved during the period, June 1, 2000, through June 30, 2002) 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 7(b) 
of this Schedule 2, review said report with the Bank (the report due on 
August 15, 2002, shall be reviewed with the Bank by December 31, 2002, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request), and promptly take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
(including, when applicable, the carrying out of the Resettlement Action 
Plan and the Environmental Assessment) and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
For the purposes of paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
the terms of availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth 
in Section I of this Schedule 3 and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall 
be entered into on the conditions set forth in Section II of this 
Schedule 3.
Section I.
Terms of Availability
1.
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan made by Beijing to each 
of SJET and BDC, shall be the amount in Dollar (on the respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn on account of Parts A(1) and A(4) of the Project 
for SJET and on account of Parts B and C of the Project for BDC.
2.
Beijing shall recover: (a) said principal amount in Dollar or 
Renminbi; and (b) an amount equal to one percent (1%) of said principal 
amount, over a period of not more than twenty (20) years, inclusive of a 
grace period of five (5) years. 
3.
Beijing shall charge interest on said principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not less than the 
rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to 
Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.
4.
Beijing shall charge a commitment charge on said principal amount, 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate not less than three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section II.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following 
principal conditions.
1.
SJET and BDC each shall undertake to:
Page  11
(a)
carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with:
(i)
appropriate administrative, commercial, financial, 
environmental and technical 
practices for SJET and 
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial, 
environmental and technical practices for BDC; and
(ii)
appropriate health, safety and environmental 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources 
required for the purpose; and 
(b)
without limitation on the foregoing, BDC shall take all 
measures necessary to ensure that its Respective Part of the Project 
shall be implemented in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan and 
the Environmental Assessment.
2.
SJET and BDC each shall undertake to procure the goods and services 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods and 
services exclusively in carrying out its Respective Part of the Project. 
3.
SJET and BDC each shall undertake to enable the Bank and to inspect 
such goods and the sites and works included in its Respective Part of the 
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
4.
SJET and BDC each shall undertake to take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including, 
without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by each of SJET 
and BDC to replace or repair such goods.
5.
SJET and BDC each shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition;
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and Beijing, where 
applicable; 
(c)
furnish to Beijing, where applicable, and to the Bank, as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the 
end of each such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and 
accounts for such year as so 
audited; and 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such 
scope and detail as Beijing 
and the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Bank and Beijing all such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, 
as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank and Beijing shall reasonably 
request.
Boiler Conversion: Part A(1) of the Project
Page  12
6.
With respect to Part A(1) of the Project, SJET shall undertake:
(a)
to adopt, and maintain in effect, a manual of operations 
acceptable to the Bank, which manual shall include: (i) eligibility 
criteria for Endusers, Boiler Conversions and appraisal and financing of 
Boiler Conversions; (ii) operational procedures for determining said 
eligibility; (iii) procedures for the approval of Boiler Conversions; and 
(iv) procedures for the sale, installation, operation and maintenance of 
Gas Boilers under approved Boiler Conversions; 
(b)
thereafter, to carry out Part A(1) of the Project in 
accordance with such manual as shall have been approved by the Bank  and, 
inter alia, promote, appraise, review, approve and supervise Boiler 
Conversions in accordance with the criteria, conditions and procedures 
set out in the Operations Manual; and 
(c)
not to amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the 
Operations Manual, without the prior approval of the Bank.
7.
For purposes of carrying out Part A(1) of the Project, SJET shall 
undertake:
(a)
prior to the installation of a Gas Boiler, to enter into a 
Boiler Sale and Purchase Contract with an Enduser, for which a Boiler 
Conversion has been approved in accordance with provisions of paragraph 6 
above, on terms and conditions acceptable the Bank, including those set 
out in the Operations Manual, which conditions shall include the 
following:
(i)
Said Enduser shall take out and maintain such 
insurance, against such risks 
and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice, 
including such insurance to cover the hazards incident to the 
operation of a 
Gas Boiler, any indemnity thereunder to 
be payable in a currency freely usable 
by the Enduser to 
replace or repair such goods.
(ii)
Said Enduser shall, at all times, maintain and 
operate a Gas Boiler purchased 
under a Boiler Sale and 
Purchase Contract, and, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs thereof in accordance with sound engineering and 
industry practices.
(iii)
Said Enduser, upon reasonable request by SJET or the 
Bank,  shall cooperate 
in: (A) enabling SJET or the Bank 
to inspect the Gas Boiler purchased under a 
Boiler Sale 
and Purchase Contract; and (B) furnishing all such information 
requested relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and 
financial condition of the 
Enduser and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Gas 
Boiler purchase.
(b)
to exercise its rights in relation to each Boiler Sale and 
Purchase Contract in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of Beijing and the Bank, to comply with its obligations under 
this Agreement and to achieve the objectives of the Project.
Wastewater Management and Institutional Strengthening: Parts B and  C of 
the Project
8.
BDC shall undertake to have in place by November 30, 2000, 
consultants to be responsible for: 
(a)
carrying out the analysis described in paragraph 9(a) below; 
Page  13
and 
(b)
assisting in the implementation of Part B of the Project. 
9.
With respect to Part C of the Project, BDC shall undertake: 
(a)
to carry out, based on the IDP and in accordance with terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an analysis of the institutional 
development of BDC as an entity with: (i) an independent governance 
structure under the Company Law, including the establishment of a Board 
of Supervisors, (ii) financial independence to retain and use revenues 
from sewerage tariffs, and (iii) legal ownership of and responsibility 
for all sewerage and drainage facilities in the Beijing urban districts, 
and furnish to the Bank for comments by October 1, 2001,  the results of 
such analysis together with a time-bound action plan; and 
(b)
to begin implementation of said action plan by December 31, 
2001, taking into account the Bank’s comments.
Financial Covenants
10.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BDC shall undertake:
(a)
to produce for each fiscal year as of 2000 total revenues, 
equivalent to not less than the sum of:
(i)
 its total operating expenses; and
(ii)
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds 
the provision for 
depreciation;
(b)
to review, before September 30 in each fiscal year as of 
fiscal 2001, and on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and 
satisfactory to the Bank, whether it would meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the 
requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years 
covered by such review, promptly to take all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of 
its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
11.
SJET and Beijing shall undertake:
(a)
at the request of the Bank from time to time, to exchange 
views with regard to SJET’s pricing policies and its plans in respect of 
the overall development of the Gas Boiler sector.
(b)
  as long as they exercise control over the setting of 
prices of SJET Gas Boiler sales, to establish sale prices for Gas Boilers 
and payment terms for such sales which would: 
(i)
allow the SJET, under conditions of efficient 
operation, to cover: (A) the 
cost of the Gas 
Boilers, (B) costs incidental to the procurement and sale of 
the Gas Boilers; (C) costs of making such sale and 
collection of sale 
proceeds; (D) adequate provision 
for bad debt and foreign exchange risks; and 
(E) SJET’s 
total operating expenses and to earn an adequate return on funds 
invested in it and meet its financial obligations; 
(ii)
be reasonably competitive with prices of Gas Boilers 
sold by other 
distributors in the People’s 
Page  14
Republic of China; and 
(iii)
subject to the achievement of objectives (i) and (ii) 
above, pass on the 
benefit of declines in the real 
cost of production through reduction in prices 
in real 
terms.
(c)
review, before March 31 in each fiscal year as of fiscal 
2002, and on the basis of forecasts prepared by SJET and satisfactory to 
the Bank, whether they would meet the requirements set forth in 
subparagraph (b)(i) hereof, in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion; and
(d)
if any such review shows that they would not meet the 
requirements set forth in subparagraph (b)(i) hereof for the fiscal years 
covered by such review, promptly take all necessary measures in order to 
meet such requirements.
12.
Beijing shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of 
SJET or BDC to the use of the proceeds of its respective loan from 
Beijing upon failure by SJET or BDC to perform its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
13.
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “total revenues” means the terms of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income.
(b)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(c)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight line basis at a rate of not less than 4% per annum of the 
average current gross value of BDC’s or SJET’s, as the case may be, fixed 
assets in operation, as the case may be, or other basis acceptable to the 
Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(d)
The average current gross value of BDC’s fixed assets in 
operation, as the case may be, shall be calculated as one half of the sum 
of the gross value of its fixed assets in operation at the beginning and 
at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance 
with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory 
to the Bank.
(e)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(f)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of BDC, as the case 
may be, maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred.
(g)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(i)
under a loan contract or agreement or other 
instrument providing for such debt 
or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and
(ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(h)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
Page  15
between:
(i)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(ii)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in 
(i) above.
14.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at 
the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such 
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
