Report No. PID9657
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Competitiveness LIL
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Institutional Development;
Business Environment;
Small Scale Enterprise
Project ID                       NIPE70016
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY
Vicepresidencia de la Republica de Nicaragua
De los Semaforos del Hotel Intercontinental
1 cuadra al Lago, ler. Edificio a mano derecha
Managua, Nicaragua
Contact Person: Lic. Carlos Vega
Tel: 505 228 3098
Fax: 505 222 2313
Email: cvega@vicepresidencia.gob.ni
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 8, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 20, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 18, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Although Nicaragua has undertaken significant steps since the 1990's to
establish a market-based, outward-oriented economy and has become a more
open and secure market for trading partners, much remains to raise
Nicaragua's international competitiveness which is ranking very low. The
Global Competitiveness Index, prepared by the Center for International
Development of Harvard University, ranked Nicaragua 48th among 59
countries assessed in 1998. The same index ranks Nicaragua 53rd out of 59
for infrastructure, and second to last in the Region. In the areas of
export development, technological capabilities, management and training,
business infrastructure and institutions, its ranking is equally low. A
business environment survey from August 1999 shows that the private sector
considers the Government's communication and transparency to be weak,
e.g., the private sector is often not included nor informed about changes
in regulations, which are undertaken by the Government.
2. Objectives
The primary learning objectives of the proposed program would be (i) to
test private-public partnerships for developing consensus on business
environment issues, (ii) to pilot sustainable information technology-based
business development services (BDS), and (iii) to seek effective ways of
increasing private sector participation in key business environment policy
reforms. The proposed Project would achieve this objective via a set of
initiatives: (a) at the firm level --promoting well-functioning and
inclusive business clusters which support increased sector productivity
and sustainable IT-based business developing services (BDS) to micro and



small businesses (MSBs); (b) in the business environment -- piloting the
removal of key regulatory and institutional bottlenecks to competitiveness
and growth in the area of in-firm training, domestic competition, and
foreign investment promotion; and (c)ensure the sustainability of the
National Competitiveness Program (NCP) to facilitate private-public policy
dialogue and to assist in implementing sector and policy reforms. 3.
Rationale for Bank's Involvement4. Descriptionl. Develop well-functioning
and inclusive pilot clusters and IT-based business development services.2.
Improve business environment by testing: (1) alternatives for private
sector participation in public sector training system, (2) innovative
approach for increased domestic competition, (3) new investment promotion
activities, and (4) use of IT tools in reform of commercial registry and
complete diagnostic of commercial code.3. Increase NCP management capacity
to develop consensus on competitiveness policy issues through
private-public collaboration.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0
IBRD
IDA                      5
Total Project Cost       5
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michaela Weber
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-2-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed during the week ending December 1, 2000.
- 3 -



