Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21532-NI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR4.0 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
COMPETITIVENESS LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
DECEMBER 26,2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 10/10/00)
Currency Unit = Cordoba
C$1 = US$0.8
US$1 = C$12.67
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
AEN           Artisan Enterprise Network
BDS           Business Development Services
BDC           Business Development Center
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBI           Caribbean Basin Initiative
FDI           Foreign Direct Investrnent
FIAS          Foreign Investmnent Advisory Services
GON           Government of Nicaragua
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IFC           International Finance Corporation
INPYME        Public Small and Medium Business Institute
INATEC        National Vocation Training Institute
IT            Information Technology
ICT           Information and Communication Technology
MIGA          Multilateral Investment Guarantees Agency
MIFIC         Ministry of Industry, Development and Commerce
MSB           Micro and Small Business
MSE           Micro and Small Enterprise
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NCP           National Competitiveness Program
SME           Small and Medium Enterprises
UCRESEP       Unit for State Reform in the Vicepresidency
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Michaela Weber



NICARAGUA
COMPETITIVENESS LIL
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                    6
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                              6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     8
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                            9
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          9
2. Financial                                                                        10
3. Technical                                                                        10
4. Institutional                                                                    11
5. Environmental                                                                    12
6. Social                                                                           13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   14
2. Critical risks                                                                   14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   15
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          15
2. Other                                                                            15



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           N/A
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary      29
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         30
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              43
MAP(S)



NICARAGUA
Competitiveness LIL
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFR
Date: December 21, 2000                           Team Leader: Michaela Weber
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo     Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: P070016                               Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, DB - Business
Environment, DS - Small Scale Enterprise
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
I ] Loan    P1] Credit    [ I Grant    1 ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard: a variable
rate between 0 and 0.5% of the
undisbursed credit balance set annually
by the Executive Director of IDA.
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        0.65           0.00          0.65
IDA                                                             0.78           4.22          5.00
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                                0.20           0.00          0.20
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                          1.63           4.22          5.85
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY
Address: Vicepresidencia de la Repuiblica de Nicaragua
Managua, Nicaragua
Contact Person: Carlos Vega
Tel: 505 228 3098                Fax: 505 222 2313                Email: cvega@vicepresidencia.gob.ni
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2001       2002       2003       2004
Annual    0.80        2.30       1.00       0.90
Cumulative    0.80        3.10       4.10       5.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04115/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OCS PCA Fan. W  M, MMI



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed Credit will test private-public partnerships for developing consensus and
introducing reform on business environment issues, and pilot sustainable information
technology-based business development services (BDS). The proposed Project would achieve
this objective via a set of initiatives that: (a) at the firm level --promote well-functioning and
inclusive business clusters and piloting service and delivery innovation of sustainable IT-based
business developing services (BDS) to micro and small businesses (MSBs); (b) in the business
environment -- pilot reforms for competitiveness policies, institutions and administrative
procedures related to private sector development in the area of in-firm training, domestic
competition, foreign investment promotion and the commercial registry; and (c) ensure the
sustainability of the National Competitiveness Program (NCP) to facilitate private-public policy
dialogue and to assist in implementing sector and policy reforms.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators linked to the above development objectives are:
At the firm-level: (i) capacity of pilot clusters for self organization is fully achieved after
three years; (ii) three initiatives per cluster increasing sector productivity implemented; (iii) IT-
based BDS to micro and small businesses (MSBs) piloted in Masaya, resulting in coverage
between 30%-40% of all MSBs in two municipalities; and (iv) private sector training providers
increased by 30%.
In the business environment: increased sustained private participation in policy-making,
and implementation of key competitiveness policy areas of training policy, FDI promotion and
domestic competition policy. Specific institutional development targets would be set for the
strengthening of the Center for Investment and Export (CEI), the "Direccion General de
Competencia y Transparencia de Mercados" in the Ministry of Industry, Development and
Commerce (MIFIC), and for the private sector participation in management of the public training
policy, such as with an industry training council, and the sustainability of the NCP.
Ensured NCP's sustainability: NCP Management Unit possesses the capability to (i)
facilitate effectively private-public collaboration on competitiveness policy issues, (ii) adjust and
replicate BDC model after successful pilot; and (iii) monitor and evaluate effectively
private-public reform activities.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R98-32 [IFC/R98-41]     Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/09/98
The Project and its design support the objectives of the CAS and the Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). In order to help build a sustainable market economy that
will support poverty reduction in Nicaragua, the CAS puts forth consolidating growth through
- 2 -



private sector development as its first core theme in the country's development agenda and Bank
Group assistance. Given Nicaragua's political history, the CAS stresses the importance of
establishing consensus-building mechanisms between the Government and the private sector to
help promote employment, export earnings and growth, with possibly major gains also in client
focus and public service delivery efficiency. Similarily, the I-PRSP mentions as its first strategic
priority the need to promote labor-intensive, broad-based economic growth. It recommends that
the Government focus on modernizing and integrating the rural economy, fostering growth of
small and medium businesses, promoting strategic productive clusters, and improving the business
environment.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Nicaragua has carried out significant steps since the 1990's to establish a market-based,
outward-oriented economy and has become a more open and secure market for trading partners.
Still, much remains to be done to raise Nicaragua's international competitiveness. A commonly
cited Global Competitiveness Index, prepared by the Center for International Development of
Harvard University, ranked Nicaragua 48th overall among 59 countries assessed in 1998. The
same index ranks Nicaragua 53rd out of 59 for infrastructure. Its ranking is equally low in the
areas of export development, technological capabilities, management and training, business
infrastructure and institutions. In addition, a 1999 business enviromnent survey completed during
Project preparation shows that the private sector considers the Government to be weak in
communication and transparency; for example, the private sector is often not included in
discussions nor adequately informed about changes in regulations undertaken by the Government.
Cluster development. The initial development of cluster groups in Nicaragua -- to date in
textile/clothing, agro-industry, and tourism/handicraft -- was initiated in 1998 by regional studies
and workshops on competitiveness in Central America led by the Instituto Centroamericano de
Administracion de Empresas (INCAE). The private-public cluster approach started to integrate
supply chains in the respective sectors in Nicaragua. The cluster program is at the initial stage of
bringing together manufacturers/producers, input suppliers, infrastructure providers underpinning
the sector, such as training and technology providers, and the public sector agencies which
regulate the sector. In general, a diagnostic process of international competitiveness levels and
benchmarking these findings against world trends will help clusters formulate a vision, and
develop a strategy and medium term plans to improve key aspects of sector competitiveness. This
process in Nicaragua remains at a very early stage, and requires facilitation and resources to move
the process forward.
Business Development Services. Like larger firms, small- and micro-enterprises face
obstacles such as scarcity of modern management skills as well as information about markets,
technology and financing, technological obsolescence of equipment and production processes, and
inadequate investment financing. Business development services (BDS) have been offered in
Nicaragua frequently by public training institutions, bilateral donor programs and NGOs. Services
offered are the training of labor and management, consulting, marketing, technology development
and diffusion services. However, there is broad consensus among the users and suppliers that
publicly-provided BDS often suffer from being too general and supply-driven, lack sufficient
client attention and quality, and give little specific attention to building delivery systems with
strong service outreach and financial sustainability. These systems are needed to help small- and
- 3-



micro enterprises access new markets for the goods and services that they produce (both domestic
and export); for the inputs that they require (including information, technology, and
competitively-priced materials); and for a diverse range of financial services and BDS needed to
support business growth and competitiveness.
Four preliminary cluster diagnostic studies (leather, wood, dairy and artisans' products),
undertaken by UNIDO in 1998 and a World Bank SME study, have concluded that the provision
of adequate services to micro and small businesses are priority needs in order to improve
competitiveness and to ensure their economic survival. Analysis during Project preparation in
participatory workshops with beneficiaries and BDS providers has shown that for micro and small
businesses, while lack of sufficient capital heads the list of problems, three other areas are also of
concern: (i) lack of business skills, (ii) weak buyer-seller links, and (iii) low access to technology,
and information.
Information technology-based BDS has a strong potential in Nicaragua, as elsewhere, to
increase markedly market access and competitiveness of micro and small businesses. A recent
study looked at the IT sector and electronic commerce in Nicaragua. The information
infrastructure has some 9,000 - 12,000 internet connections, serving about 180,000 to 240,000
users. User intensity is comparatively low (averaging 0.05% compared to Mexico's 1.5% and the
Latin America average of 4.9%). Basic IT infrastructure in telecommunications, internet service
providers and programmers are available to the more advanced portions of the economy, mainly
in Managua. Nicaraguan users are mostly located in universities, Government and NGOs.
However, commercial use is still extremely limited: only six Nicaraguan companies use
e-commerce and IT benefits are not available to micro and small urban and rural businesses. The
firm-level survey completed during Project preparation showed that only 16% of the small firms
use IT in office management and 7% in production functions (versus 92% and 38%, respectively
for large firms). The main constraints cited to increased use were equipment cost, lack of
IT-qualified staff and technical assistance, and a perception that use of IT was a poor return on
investment.
The Business Environment. Skills Development. In Nicaragua, only a minority of firms
provides formal training to their employees. The incidence of this training is highly skewed
toward Managua, rather than secondary towns and rural areas, and towards large firms versus
small businesses. A "Survey on Skills, Technology and Productivity" of 161 firms prepared
during Project preparation shows clearly that Nicaraguan firms rely almost exclusively on
informal, in-house and on-the job training for their employees. While larger firms have increased
training programs, smaller firms and domestic firms have not stepped up training efforts.
Furthermore, the firms interviewed consider private training providers as more important than
public training institutions. The majority of in-firm training in the formal sector is controlled and
partly provided through the public training institution, INATEC, which imposes a payroll training
levy of 2% on all enterprises with more than five employees. While larger firms often secure their
own training resources, more robust development of the private training market for MSBs faces
several constraints, including high labor turnover, poor information on the benefits of training, and
inadequate financial resources for training. A client-driven, continuous supply in several areas of
training services is still completely lacking. The payroll levy grant system, as structured and
managed thus far, has not proven effective in addressing these constraints. In fact, only a
relatively small amount of the current payroll levy is even dedicated to this purpose, as the bulk of
-4 -



INATEC's resources are directed towards pre-employment training and facilities.
Domestic Competition Policy. Nicaragua is the smallest domestic market in Central
America, accounting for only five percent of Central America's aggregate GDP. In spite of recent
openness and liberalization efforts, the economy is still characterized by high levels of
concentration in production and imports; price structures are highly distorted compared to other
Central American countries; access to financing and other resources of the economy is remarkably
uneven; and collusive behavior and restrictive practices by a few firms is apparent in a number of
industries. Domestic competition is further impaired by entry barriers in Nicaragua which, in
particular, deny opportunities to MSBs and limit productivity-raising innovations and investments.
Such barriers involve mostly government policies/regulations and different institutional
arrangements which limit formal business establishment in the economy. The commercial registry
in Nicaragua represents a key obstacle for business entry, given the fact that it is a paper-based
system and presents difficulties for those who subsequently need to obtain public information on
the registered companies, such as banks. The costs to establish a business in Nicaragua are about
four times those in Guatemala and El Salvador, and far higher than those in Costa Rica.
Foreign Direct Investment. Compared to its regional neighbors, in 1998 Nicaragua had
both the lowest stock of foreign direct investment (FDI) (US$ 1.1 billion) and the lowest inflows
of FDI (US$184 million). This is due in part to the politics of isolation in the 1 980s and the
country's comparatively weak economic situation. The small size of the domestic market means
that Nicaragua must compete for the intensely selective export-oriented manufacturing FDI and
for the equally competitive tourism development investments. With limited technical skills within
the labor force, Nicaragua's traditional competitive advantage has been low cost labor. Yet this
advantage has been stifled by a perceived high political risk. Effective techniques often employed
by other countries to increase FDI flows, such as image building and investor targeting, have not
been utilized in Nicaragua. An initial institutional assessment of the Center for Export and
Investment (CEI) and its partner institutions in investment promotion with strong input from the
private sector and public sector was carried out by MIGA in the preparation phase of the Project.
In the past, this agency has been left to conduct its work without any results-oriented supervision
or monitoring. As a consequence, there is a distinct lack of focus within its investment promotion
activities, no strategic direction, and few success stories from its decade of operations.
The Caribbean Basin Initiative and recently passed amendments to that trade act make
Nicaragua an increasingly attractive host to apparel companies exporting to the U.S. market. The
Government and the private sector want to position the country as a viable host location for the
international investment community, but that community currently has little access to reliable
information on the country. Nicaragua's main task in the area of FDI is to build capacity within
the national investment promotion agency and its partners. Both the public and private sectors are
committed to achieve this goal. The Government is aware that beyond the obvious benefits of
increased foreign exchange earnings, employment generation, and technology transfer, foreign
companies could also act as a portal to new markets, a focal point for the transfer of management
and technical skills, and incubators for small and medium enterprises.
Government Strategy. To help address its international competition needs, Nicaragua's
private sector and Government have created the National Competitiveness Program (NCP). The
NCP's mission is to help establish a platform to re-establish trust between the state and the
5 -



business community, and to create and implement a clear overall vision for the country's
international competitiveness. The NCP started to organize cluster groups, which have been
bringing together private and public sector players. In the past, these players rarely interacted
among themselves and, when they did, did so in an uncoordinated manner. In creating effective
public-private fora for discussions and decision-making, the Government and the private sector
envision to increase progressively private sector investment, factor productivity and the
integration of the local economy with the regional and global economies. The NCP is chaired by
the Vice-President of Nicaragua, and led by the Minister of Industry, Development and
Commerce as the coordinator for the public sector, and by a leading Nicaraguan entrepreneur as
coordinator for the private sector. It has a small secretariat which facilitates currently meetings of
five commissions that represent equally the public and the private sector. The clusters include
two agro-industry clusters, given that about three-fourths of the poor households make a living
from activities directly or indirectly related to agricultural production.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The primary learning objectives of the proposed program would be to: (i) test
private-public partnerships for developing consensus on business environment issues; (ii) pilot
sustainable IT-based business development services (BDS); and (iii) seek effective ways of
increasing private sector participation in key business environment policy reforms. Given the
importance of private-public cooperation in promoting reform in the business environment and
increasing productivity and innovation in the private sector in Nicaragua, this LIL would be
testing the cluster methodology and private sector participation in policy reform. The linkages
between the different components would be an integral part of this LIL, and learning in one
cluster or policy area would be fed into the processes of the others. The NCP Management Unit
and its Executive Committee would integrate the components, including the methodology used,
and would evaluate and adjust the respective processes. Replication of successful learning
experiences on cross-clusteral business environment policy issues and the adjustment and
replication of a successful IT-based business development center (BDC) would an important goal
of this LIL. The private sector would participate and give input for introducing reforms in the
public training policy and the regulatory framework for domestic competition, as well as in using
IT and other innovative tools for FDI promotion and the commercial registry reform. These
innovative and participatory processes would be tested and further replication of constructive
engagement of the private sector would be replicated in firther reforms.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
E Economic   ER Technical    O Social       1 Participation
O Financial    O Institutional  O Environrnental O Other
Participation. The Project would encourage learning by the Government and the private
sector about processes of organizing and promoting public-private consensus-building, of
decision-making, of organizing and implementing activities that span the private and public sector.
With success, this "joint-venture for competitiveness" could become a strong motor to encourage
cross-institutional and cross-sector competitiveness policy problem solving, and sustain the active
participation of the private sector in business environment reform and sector competitiveness.
The process of piloting policy and regulatory reform, supported by a wide coalition of the private
-6 -



and public sector, is an innovative process in Nicaragua.
Donor coordination and evaluation. Initial interest and participation by other donors in
the Project has been considered very positive and to be an innovative approach to aid
effectiveness. The cooperation with Swisscontact and GTZ in developing business development
services, promoting a market of private sector supply, as well as upgrading the private training
providers of BDS would be especially strong. Also, in the Component 2, innovative approach for
increased domestic competition, the LIL would build upon and cooperate with a GTZ project to
eliminate administrative barriers. The NCP Management Unit would act as a clearing house for
donor support in competitiveness areas. Know-how developed in the Project's learning process
would be systematically captured, evaluated and shared with the institutions involved, by the NCP
Management Unit, assisted by an independent firm charged with the monitoring and evaluation.
Technical and institutional innovations would be promoted with the developing of
business associations and the pilot IT- supported business development center (BDC) in Masaya.
This pilot IT-based BDC would serve micro and small businesses in the two municipalities,
Masaya and San Juan de Oriente, and the Department of Masaya, where there is a high
concentration of leather products, furniture, crafts and hammock production. Adjustment and
replication of the model would be recommended, if the delivery of services by the pilot BDC
benefit over 30% of the micro- and small industries in the two main municipalities.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
trlnckil"            Bank-      % of
Co _-M-t                  Sector        Costs    % of   financing   Bank-
___________  J(Usm         Total   jM§)  financing
1. Develop well-functioning and  IL                 2.90      49.6      2.50      50.0
inclusive pilot clusters and IT-based
business development services.
2. Pilot reforms for competitiveness  BI            2.05      35.0      1.73      34.6
policies, institutions and administrative
procedures related to private sector
development by testing: (1) alternatives
for private sector participation in
public sector training system, (2)
innovative approach for increased
domestic competition, (3) new
investment promotion activities, and (4)
use of IT tools in reform of commercial
registry and complete diagnostic of
commercial code.
-7 -



3. Increase NCP Management Unit    BI              0.90      15.4     0.77     15.4
management capacity to develop
consensus on competitiveness policy
issues through private-public
collaboration.
Total Project Costs                 5.85     100.0     5.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                 5.85     100.0     5.00     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Executive Committee of the NCP Management Unit, a public-private partnership, has
demonstrated strong leadership and has collaborated closely with IDA in the design of the Project.
It would continue to play an oversight role in the implementation phase of the Project. The
Project would be executed by the NCP Management Unit, which reports to the NCP Executive
Director and to the Executive Committee. The NCP Management Unit, physically housed in the
Vicepresidency, has developed implementation management capacity and has operated efficiently
since late 1998. During project preparation phase, the NCP Management Unit gained
considerable project management capability, including aspects relating to Bank procurement.
To implement the Project, the Management Unit would increase its current two full-time
positions by adding seven new lead specialists to coordinate work on business environment and
IT-supported BDS. These new positions and the Project Coordinator would be financed by the
Project. MIFIC has first-line responsibility for competition policy, foreign direct investment,
micro and small businesses, and supporting responsibility for in-firm training. The Supreme Court
has first-line responsibility for the commercial registry. The reform of the commercial registry
would be managed by the NCP Management Unit, with collaboration of the Supreme Court.
Regarding IT-based Business Development Services, initial implementation would be led
by one of the lead specialists in the NCP Management Unit coordinating with representatives from
the MIFIC's Small and Medium Business Department to manage pre-startup activities. The
coordinator would be responsible for selecting the management contractor for the pilot BDC,
adopting the policies and procedures for the BDC in the Operating Manual, selecting consultants,
monitoring progress and compliance with the Manual, and evaluating impact on a three-monthly
basis. The business cluster program would be directed by three NCP Management Unit
specialists. Since it is critical that the Management Unit be fully operative from the start of
Project implementation, the staffing of the Unit, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
The core support service responsibilities of the Management Unit for Project
implementation would include the following:
*  Carry out the Project Launch Plan;
* Prepare yearly action plans with inputs from involved Government institutions and in
agreement with the Bank, for the years 2001-2004;
*  Prepare semi-annual procurement plans;
- 8 -



*  Prepare quarterly Project Monitoring and Evaluation Reports on execution and learning
against agreed institutional development and other learning and performance targets.
Quarterly reports would include financial management reporting used to monitor progress and
future disbursements;
*  Hold a Project Mid-term Review by December 30, 2002;
*  Ensure general Project coordination between NCP Management Unit, the Ministry of
Industry, and other entities involved in Project execution; and
*  Prepare the borrower's portion of the Project Implementation Completion Report in
coordination with the managing agencies.
The procurement and financial management functions would be initially undertaken
by the Unit for State Reform in the Vicepresidency (UCRESEP), reporting to the Vicepresident,
which fulfills these functions for two ongoing IDA projects. The NCP Management Unit would
hire one more person and would set up a Project-specific financial management system for
accounting, reporting, and auditing, and would coordinate with UCRESEP all Project
procurement functions according to the IDA's Guidelines in all Project components (see Annex
6).
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The NCP Management Unit would be responsible for Project monitoring and evaluation of
progress toward project development objectives and would use the Project Design Summary in
Annex 1 as a basis to track the key Project inputs, processes, outputs and outcome/impact. A
data collection system would be prepared for this purpose, which would utilize a baseline data set
from the 161 firm-level survey prepared at Project identification as a control group and
"barometer" of project progress. These same firms would be tracked at the mid-point and end of
the Project and their evaluation data compared with similar evaluations of firms participating in
the Project. A second survey would be undertaken for micro and small businesses in the target
area prior to opening the pilot IT-based BDC and each year compared with a control group. The
NCP Management Unit would utilize a monitoring and evaluation system to (i) prepare quarterly
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Reports on execution and learning against agreed learning and
performance targets, and (ii) hold a Project Midterm Review by December 30, 2002. While the
Management Unit itself would be responsible for monitoring implementation activities and
outputs, a qualified local or international firm would be responsible for preparing within this
reporting system a regular independent evaluation of Project processes, learning, outcome and
impact of innovative approaches.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
-9-



O Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The economic benefits of the Project would be driven mainly by the institutional effects on
the business environment testing public-private partnerships for policy reform and enhancing
sector productivity. For the firm-level component of the Project, at least 300 mainly smaller and
medium private firms, associations and clusters would be expected to benefit under the cluster
support. Also, about 1,000 micro and small businesses would receive training and services under
the IT-based BDC in MSB management skills. The learning resulting from the Project would take
place (i) in the cluster activities promoting sector productivity and the service delivery to micro
and small businesses through the IT-based BDC in Masaya, expecting gains in know-how on
market and product information, suppliers, buyers and distribution channels, and (ii) in the
business environment component through testing private sector participation in approaches to
strengthen reform in policy areas and its institutions.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The technical issues tested in this LIL are the innovative delivery and the sustainability of
demand-driven IT-based business development services. The delivery of business development
services supported by information and communication technology with strong focus and impact
on low-income micro- and small businesses would be tested for possible replication. The BDC
component would focus on creating information and communication technology (ICT)
infrastructure and develop an effective interface with the micro and small clientele. It would be
established in the secondary city of Masaya, serving the Department of Masaya and its
neighboring municipality San Juan de Oriente, both with a high concentration of over 12,000
micro and small enterprises. The Center would combine management skills training of MSBs with
training in computer applications such as the intemet, and integrate low-tech ICT services with
other business development services. Equally, the support of the platform of the Artisan
Enterprise Network (AEN), other producers' networks and assistance from international technical
volunteer groups would complement the IT- based BDC.
- 10-



4. Institutional:
The experience during Project design demonstrates a very strong commitment from the
Government and the private sector to the NCP Management Unit and the Project as an important
means of advancing Nicaragua's competitiveness. The Project's implementation plan covering a
period in which the next Presidential election of November 2001 will take place, would be
guaranteed through a strengthened NCP Management Unit, its Executive Committee and through
the strong public-private partnership, built up during the last two years of the Program.
This LIL would use techniques to involve the private sector in the business environment
reform and would promote and test its participation in important policy areas, such as training
policy and FDI facilitation. Close monitoring and evaluation of this process would demonstrate if
this approach would be effective in assisting such policy reform and could be replicated in other
policy fields essential for private sector development.
The Executive Committee of the NCP Management Unit, a public-private partnership, has
demonstrated strong leadership and has collaborated closely with the Bank in the design of the
Project. It would be extended by a member of the Ministry of Agriculture and would then
continue to play this role in the implementation phase by having overall responsibility for its
execution. The Project would be managed by the NCP Management Unit, which already exists
and reports to the Executive Committee. The NCP Management Unit, physically housed in the
Vicepresidency, has developed implementation management capacity and has operated efficiently
since late 1998. During the project preparation phase, the NCP Management Unit gained
considerable project management capability, including aspects relating to Bank procurement.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The NCP Management Unit would closely work with the institutions involved in the
different components, such as the CEI, the Supreme Court for the commercial registry and MIFIC
for the domestic competition policy and services for MSB.
4.2 Project management:
The NCP Management Unit would manage all project components and would have the
overall responsibility for the voucher system and the pilot BDC. The NCP Management Unit
would also undertake the evaluation and monitoring function together with an independent firm
monitoring success of the cluster activities, competitiveness environment reform and the IT-based
BDC.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement function would be undertaken by UCRESEP. An IDA Procurement
Specialist carried out a Capacity Assessment to Implement Procurement, including review of the
project procurement plan and UCRESEP's and NCP Management Unit's experience with
implementation of IDA procurement guidelines. An action plan was agreed, including training for
NCP Management Unit staff and hiring of experienced consultants to assist UCRESEP with NCB
and other procurement matters as needed.
-11-



4.4 Financial management issues:
During project preparation, project financial management arrangements have been
reviewed by IDA Financial Management Specialists. NCP would be responsible for the overall
financial management process, which brings together planning, budgeting, accounting, financial
reporting, internal control, auditing, disbursement and the performance of activities under the
project. Initially, NCP would be assisted by UCRESEP in the fulfillment of financial management
standards, as required by the IDA. A Project Operating Manual is being prepared. Either in this
Manual or separately, procedures for project administrative and financial operations would be
presented, including a separate Project Chart of Accounts.
At present, UCRESEP is satisfactorily providing accounting and procurement support to
two ongoing IDA projects. UCRESEP would be engaged to provide similar support to two
additional IDA projects. Due to the latter, a IDA Financial Management Specialist would revise
previous financial management assessment's conclusions over UCRESEP's capabilities to provide
support now to multiple projects. This re-assessment would be carried out prior to project
effectiveness, to ensure the Competitiveness LIL would be adequately assisted by UCRESEP in
the area of project financial management.
Due to the considerations presented in the preceding paragraphs, at this time the project
financial management assessment results in a Certificate 4-C, that is the project does not meet at
this time IDA's minimum financial management requirements. An Action Plan to remedy the
weaknesses observed has been agreed with project management and the GON. Project
management and the GON has been advised that in order to declare loan effectiveness a
Certificate 4-B would be required.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
- 12 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Through the promotion of learning and innovation by micro and small businesses,
especially outside the capital of Managua, the Project would help to extend business development
services to micro and small businesses to assist in building market linkages, upgrade business skills
and information access, and improve product design and quality. Early consultations have been
held with the participation of business associations about the design of an IT-based BDC, and
would be continued through a series of focus groups with participation of micro business
associations in the final design phase and implementation of a pilot IT-based BDC.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As noted above, the NCP Management Unit's basic cluster organizations have been over
the last year, and would continue to be, an important vehicle to bring together public and private
interests and know-how in the implementation of the Project. In the analytical work done on the
Project to date, inputs have been provided directly by a number of associations representing small
businesses in cluster sectors, such as dairy, coffee, tourism, as well as the Association of the
Apparel Industry, the tourism industry, the coordinators of the agro-business cluster and the
Camara de Industria. Senior Government authorities and discussions of the private sector to date
at the cluster level and in the NCP Executive Committee have significantly determined the
Project's focus regarding the business environment and proposed pilot BDC. Work on all the
issues has been informed substantially and directed by potential clients, especially MSBs, and
affected private sector groups through the use of representative surveys, focus groups, donor
meetings, cross-country experience seminars, and workshops with micro and small businesses.
Coordination with donors in the Project components one and two would continue to be strong
and would integrate services, such as micro-finances or grants into Project implementation.
Equally results of the learning and innovative BDS service delivery would be shared with local
and regional private sector groups, the Government and donors to adjust and redesign programs
for private sector development and the use of IT in development processes.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
see above
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
An independent firm would undertake a yearly evaluation of the processes, inclusion,
outreach and outcome for MSBs for the cluster component as well as for the IT-based business
development services.
- 13 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safegrd policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Project's activities are not expected to involve indigenous people. The possible
exception might be the tourism cluster, which might involve drawing up a tourism sector
benchmarking, diagnostic of the sector and developing a strategy. MIFIC, through the NCP
Mangement Unit, would ensure that the organization, execution and evaluation of cluster
activities would include the participation of indigenous people and that they would be adequately
consulted.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Limited outreach of systems designed to     M         Redesign of training systems for MSBs in
reach MSBs.                                           cooperation with business associations and NCP
Management Unit.
Lack of political and macro-economic        M         Strengthen NCP Management Unit's
stability in Nicaragua due to Presidential            management capacity and ensure strong
elections.                                            program ownership by private sector for
programs.
Lack of support of public sector for the    M         Ensure strong private sector ownership of
NCP Management Unit and the                           Project and capacity to show results.
competitiveness issues.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of support and continuity in NCP       M         Strong private sector participation in NCP
Management Unit, due to change of                     Management Unit to ensure continuity.
Government.
- 14 -



Weak client commitment to and              M         Strengthen NCP Management Unit's
participation in implementation.                     management capacity and ensure strong
program ownership by private sector.
Slowing Project implementation due to      M         Strong private sector commitment expected to
change of Government.                                ensure continuity of Project implementation and
NCP Management Unit offers resource and
services for new Government.
Lack of consensus for commercial           M         Provide training to MIFIG, Supreme Court and
registry reform, Domestic Competition                NCP Management Unit staff and hold
Policy Plan, and other regulatory or                 workshops to develop/ensure consensus
institutional changes.                               carefully.
Lack of commitment of Supreme Court to     M         Workshops sharing cross country experiences to
reform commercial registry.                          achieve consensus-building with private sector,
decision makers and Supreme Court.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Final Operational Manual approved by Association and issued.
* Financial Management System certified by IDA Financial Management Specialist.
*  NCP Executive Committee established and staffed.
*   NCP Management Unit established and staffed.
* Action Plan for the first year of Project's implementation.
* Procurement plan and consultant selection plan for first six months of Project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
X 3. The LIL's hnplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 15 -



Key TORs and bidding documents for first 12 months of implementation to be incorporated into
operational manual.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
II 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
I
Michaela Weber                    Danny Leipziger                  D-M Do  ett-Coirolo
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                   Country Manager
- 16 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
Key Performahte
Hl.rarclhy of OboWtiv.s          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Foster economic growth and   Country development     National accounts          Effective policy dialogue
reduce poverty by increasing  benchmark is to raise overall
access to sustainable     economic growth to a
productive opportunities  sustainable 5-6% per year
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Improve business          Competitive clusters
environment through       developed and integrated.
private-public partnership and
increase firm-level investment
in innovation and learning
Business environment
improved in key areas, such
as FDI promotion, training
policy, market entry and exit.
Business development
services (BDS) market
developed.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Test private-public       Developed, well-functioning  * NCP Management unit    GON's commitment to
partnerships for developing   and inclusive pilot business  monitoring and evaluation    competitive business
consensus on business     clusters and piloted       system.                    environment for broad-based
environment issues,       IT-based BDS. Capacity of  * Survey of sample of micro, private sector development.
implementing private-public  pilot clusters for self  small and medium sized firms
pilot reforms and creating  organization is fully achieved measuring changes in
innovative IT-supported   after three years. Implemented business conduct and
business development      three initiatives per cluster   innovation, new product and
services.                 increasing sector productivity. market developments by
Piloted IT-based BDS to   independent evaluation firm.
micro and small enterprises in
Masaya, resulting in coverage
between 30%-40% of all
MSEs in two municipalities.
Private sector training
providers increased by 30%.
Improved business         * Survey of micro and small
environment. Increased    sized firms before and after
sustained private participation establishing the BDC.
in policymaking, governing   * Interviews with private
key competitiveness policy    sector companies and
areas, such as training policy, Government agencies related
FDI promotion and domestic  to the pilots by independent
competition.              firm.
- 17-



Ensured NCP Management  * Independent evaluation of
Unit's sustainability: NCP   NCP Management Unit
Management Unit possesses   capacity by independent firm.
the capability to (i) facilitate
effectively private-public
sector collaboration on
competitiveness policy issues,
(ii) adjust and replicate the
BDC model after successful
pilot, and (iii) monitor and
evaluate effectively
public-private reform
activities.
- 18 -



IKey Pvrfornnan
Hiwerarhy of ObLectves           _ndicts. Monitoring I Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Developed pilot clusters and   * Cluster diagnostics,  * Analysis by NCP         Continuity of private sector
piloted sustainable IT-based   benchmarking studies and    Management Unit and by  commitment to the NCP
BDS: (i) pilot clusters    dissemination of results for   clusters served by NCP  Management Unit and
developed and supply chains  pilot clusters completed by    Management Unit every six   participation in its activities.
effectively integrated and (ii) 12/30/02.             months.
IT-based Business          * Cross-cluster initiatives
Development Services (BDS). identified and implemented,
such as training policy,
logistics regulation or
commercial code reform.
* Activities in pilot cluster
supported by matching funds.
* About 1.000 micro and
small businesses in Masaya   * Survey of micro and small  Systems designed able to
and San Juan de Oriente    sized businesses (MSBs)    reach micro and smaller
having used one or more    before and after establishing  firns.
modules of business skills    the BDC by NCP
training, marketing, export   Management Unit Project
facilitation and IT tools in    monitoring and evaluation
pilot BDC by 03/30/03.     system, and independent
* 30-40 private training   impact evaluations.
providers received training for
trainers by 06/30/03.
* Ownership of BDC by
private sector associations or
private sector is above 30%
after three years.
Pilot reforms for          * Assessed at least three                             Political and macro-economic
competitiveness policies,  altemative systems for private                        stability in Nicaragua
institutions and administrative sector participation in public                   remains constant. Support of
procedures related to private  training system and selected                      public sector to NCP
sector development by testing: and tested pilot system.                          Management Unit and
(i) altematives for private                                                      competitiveness environment
sector participation in public                                                   issues remains constant.
sector training system .
- 19 -



(ii) innovative approach to    * Analysis and changes made
domestic competition.       of norms, policies and
procedures to foster entry,
operation and exit of firms,
including anticompetitive
practices and govemment
policies, constraints on
commerical transactions,
including bankruptcy and
sector regulations, in at least
four sectors.
* Strengthened functional
capacity of MIFIC,
Department for Competition,
Deregulation and Consumer
Protection. Six senior
professionals trained to
analyze and oversee
innovative integrated policies
affecting market entry and
exit.
(iii) new investment        * Investment promotion
promotion activities.       strategy developed by CEI and
partners, with MIGA
assistance, targeting two pilot
sectors.
* Pilot sector targeting
strategies completed and in
the process of testing.
* High quality intemet
presence launched targeting
two pilot sectors.
* CEI and partner staff
trained in research techniques
to identify and locate potential
investors in pilot sectors.
* Effective investor/lead
tracking system for pilot
sectors recommended and
implemented and CEI and
partners trained in its use.
* CEI and partners trained in
the design and planning of
inbound and outbound
investment promotion
missions in target sectors.
- 20 -



(iv) use of IT tools tested in * The use of IT in commercial
reform of commercial registry registry reform piloted and
and completed diagnostic of  tested.
commercial code.           * Reduction in response time
and cost reduction for client
due to reform of commercial
registry tested.
* Diagnostic of commercial
code completed.
Increased NCP Management  * Proven capacity of NCP
Unit Capacity to develop   Management Unit staff for
consensus on competitiveness up-scaling cluster facilitation
policy issues with         and cross cluster policy
public-private partnerships   reform.
* NCP Management Unit's
monitoring and evaluation
capacity for public-private
initiatives increased.
-21-



Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Develop well-functioning    US $2.5                   Monitoring system of NCP    Continuity of private sector
and inclusive clusters and                            Management Unit, NCP       participation in NCP
pilot IT-based business                               Management Unit's Executive Management Unit.
development services.                                 Committee minutes, and the
World Bank supervision
reports.
* Develop four            US$1.3                                                 Strong client commitment to
well-functioning and inclusive                                                   implementation.
pilot clusters.                                                                  Implementation progress
*  Pilot IT-based business    US$1.2                                             remains constant.
development services (BDS):
(i) pilot IT-based BDC, (ii)
training of private training
providers, (iii) develop and
train business associations
and the private sector and
(iv) set up voucher system for
MSBs.
Improve Competitiveness    US$ 1.73                                              Consensus on competitiveness
Environment:                                                                     issues builds on willingness
for reform.
* Assess alternatives for  US$0.18
private sector participation in
public sector training system
and select and test a pilot.
* Define and test Domestic    US$0.5
Competition Policy Plan.
* Increase and test capacity to
upscale investment promotion
activities.                US$0.55
* Test IT tools in reform of                                                     High comittment of Supreme
commercial registry and                                                          Court to reform of
complete diagnostic of     US$0.5                                                commercial registry remains
commercial code.                                                                 constant.
Increase NCP Management US$0.77
Unit Management Capacity
to develop consensus on
competitivness policy issues
with private-public
partnerships
- 22 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.50 million
Develop well-functioning and inclusive business clusters and IT-based business
development services.
Develop well-functioning and inclusive business clusters (US$1.3 million). In this
sub-component the NCP Management Unit would contract service providers to (i) facilitate the
organization of new clusters and undertake initial cluster diagnostic and benchmarking
assessments for four clusters (100% financing), (ii) identify cross-cluster business environment
constraints and reform proposals (e.g. for labor mobility, training policy, technical barriers to
trade, etc.), (iii) improve the productivity, quality and efficiency of the sectors represented in the
clusters and help the clusters to develop strategies, operational plans and activities -- these action
plans and projects would be owned, implemented and monitored by the private and the public
sector (85% financing), (iv) continue broad promotion, dissemination and training in the
methodology, in order to include in the clusters a large number of small businesses in
decentralized and rural areas, and (v) establish cluster information networks.
For the tourism, coffee and dairy sector, the Project would assist in establishing cluster
information networks, on demand supported by Information and Communications Technology
(ICT) in cooperation with business associations representing the sectors. The Project would also
support the creation of an ICT cluster for micro-businesses to undertake knowledge sharing with
other experiences and pilots in the Region and to address regulatory issues at a later stage.
The expected results would be four well-functioning and inclusive pilot clusters with a clear
strategy, pilot activities implemented to increase sector productivity and the capacity of the pilot
clusters for self-organization after two years. The replication of the approach to other sectors and
decentralized locations assisted by the NCP Management Unit and/or NCP Management Unit
partners would be expected. The envisioned results of the cluster information network would be
to manage more effectively supply-chains between rural and urban actors, to communicate with
business associations, policy makers and public institutions, to exchange information on the
demand and supply of business development services, and to create space for discussions and
exchange among producers.
Pilot sustainable IT-based business development services (US$ 1.2 million). This
sub-component would (i) provide technical assistance, equipment and software to develop a pilot
IT-supported business development center (BDC), which would provide cost-effective services in
training, quality assurance, export facilitation, design assistance and information on financing and
Government services for micro-and small businesses, (ii) sponsor training for trainers in MSB
management for sectors such as small scale tourism, handicrafts, small leather and furniture
industry, (iii) provide technical assistance to develop business associations, and (iv) set up a grant
system for micro and small businesses (MSBs).
- 23 -



The development and management of a pilot IT-based Business Development Center in
Masaya and of effective business associations would aim at increasing the market involvement of
the many small and micro-enterprises in the region in a competitive framework. The associations
would receive training in organization, leadership, communication strategies and instruments, and
training for organizing collective buying, selling and training. The IT-based business development
center (BDC) would be established through a management contract under a formula of decreasing
financial and training support over three years. The operator would be selected based on a
business plan focusing on quality services, outreach, financial sustainability and experience in the
field of BDS to micro and small enterprises.
The target clientele would be two large markets: (1) very low-income micro-businesses in
the clusters, such as for shoes, wood and handicrafts with entrepreneurs having only about 2-3
years of primary education; and (2) more complex micro- and small businesses in areas, such as
wood and furniture products, the shoe and leather sector and the small apparel businesses, having
sound literacy and numerical skills, and with up to 20 employees. Both market groups are
concentrated around Masaya and San Juan de Oriente, with a high concentration of 12,000 micro
and small workshops.
The MSB management training program would target existing and new private training
providers to focus and to adjust their training on the segment of under-served clients. The design
of incentive driven demand-side interventions with grants for micro and small enterprises would
be developed following a second BDS participatory workshop and analysis, which was carried
with financing under the PHRD grant. The grant program would give to eligible micro and small
businesses grants to purchase training services provided by eligible firms. Eligibility criteria for
grant recipient businesses as well as service providers would be defined in the operational manual.
The expected results of this sub-component would be replicable IT-based BDS. It would
also be expected that linkages horizontally to producer groups and vertically to supply chains
(backward and forward linkages) would have promoted learning, know-how exchange, reduced
costs for market transactions and better access to domestic, regional and international markets.
The services rendered by the BDC would be expected to raise earnings of low-income micro- and
small businesses by increasing their business skills, market access and operational competitiveness.
The BDC itself would be expected to reach financial break-even after three years.
Project Component 2 - US$1.73 million
Pilot reforms for competitiveness policies, institutions and administrative procedures
related to private sector development.
The component would strengthen the participation of the private sector in policy reform, to
(i) include input, concerns and the know-how of the private sector in the reforms, and (ii)
communicate process, progress and the results clearly to the private sector, foreign investors and
the public at large. The NCP Management Unit would play a key role in facilitating the
discussion of the issues in the different clusters, providing their inputs and concerns through the
NCP Executive Committee to the Governemnt, and carrying out a dialogue with the public actors
throughout the reform process.
-24 -



Assess alternatives for private sector participation in public sector training system
and test one option (US$0.18 million). This sub-component would (i) build consensus between
the public and private sector on incorporating the private sector in the management of the public
training system, (ii) assess at least three alternatives to incorporate the private sector in managing
national training policy, the training levy system and business training programs, and (iii) select
one option as a pilot and test it. This component would also include monitoring and evaluation of
the component. The expected results would be an action plan for reform of the public training
system, and incorporating private sector participation in its management.
Test innovative approach to domestic competition (US$0.5 million). The component
would address deregulation, unfair and anti-competitive practices/policies, standards and
metrology, and address consumer protection to help remove constraints to entry, operation and
exit of firms, and reduce the likelihood for unfair/anti-competitive business practices. This
component would focus on (i) identifying existing organizational synergies and policy mandates
and mechanisms, and (ii) increasing the capacity of MIFIC to promote domestic competition
through training measures. The process would be widely discussed with the private and public
sector and facilitated by the NCP Management Unit. The expected results would be MIFIC's
increased capacity to integrate its mandates and promote domestic competition, which would lead
to propose a competition policy-law framework at the end of the program, reflecting the learning
experience.
Test new investment promotion activities (US$0.55 million). In this sub-component,
technical assistance and training would be designed in cooperation with the private sector and
with the assistance of MIGA, to help upscale the capacity of CEI and its partner agencies in
effective direct investment promotion. The sub-component's activities would include to (i)
develop a private sector-supported foreign direct investment (FDI) strategy, (ii) pilot test investor
targeting tools in two pilot sectors (tourism and light manufacturing); (iii) demonstrate and pilot
test the use of information technology, (iv) pilot the use of promotional material and (v) provide
training in effective inbound and outbound investment missions. The expected results would be
the successful implementation of key tools for FDI promotion, through feedback from potential
investors; and CEI's improved capacity to scale the tested tools up in other sectors.
Test IT tools in reform of commercial registry and diagnostic of commercial code
completed (US$0.5 million). On the basis of a diagnostic analysis of the existing legislation and
regulations for commercial registry activity and of the institutional and administrative operations
of these registries themselves, the Project would provide (i) technical assistance for improvement
to the relevant legislative and regulatory frameworks, (ii) goods and equipment for improvements
to the operations of the registry offices via testing, on a pilot basis, the use of IT in one or more
registries, (iii) train staff in the utilization of more modern registry mechanisms and (iv) a
diagnostic of the commercial code for future regulatory changes. The expected results would be
the evidence of reduction in transaction costs and the behavioral and process changes due to the
use of information technology, as well as the cooperation between different agencies in the public
sector and the private sector in this reform. This pilot reform would be expected to be a first
module in a one-stop investment facilitation. The diagnostic of the commercial code would result
in discussions with the private and public sector about future regulatory reform for effective
- 25 -



private sector development in Nicaragua.
Project Component 3 - USS 0.77 million
Increase management capacity to develop consensus on competitiveness policy with
public-private partnerships. This component would assist in increasing the NCP Management
Unit's capacity to build consensus in business environment issues and to execute the Project
through the (i) financing of seven lead specialist positions and a project coordinator position, (ii)
training and strengthening of the NCP Management Unit staff, its members and partners; and (iii)
strengthening of the evaluation and monitoring capacity of the NCP Management Unit.
The result of this component should be that the NCP Management Unit possesses the
capability to (i) facilitate effectively private and public sector on competitiveness issues, and (ii)
adjust and replicate the BDC model after a successful pilot. The Bank, the Borrower,
implementing agencies and other stakeholders would have semi-annual technical reviews covering
the quality of project outputs and progress toward project objectives.
- 26 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NICARAGUA; Competitiveness LIL
Local         Foreign          Total
Pr"ject Cost By Component                       US $million    US $million    US $rniilion
1. Develop well-functioning and inclusive clusters and pilot         0.50           2.35            2.85
IT-based BDS.
2. Pilot reforms for competitiveness policies, institutions and      0.25            1.52            1.77
administrative procedures related to private sector development
3. Increase NCP Management Unit management capacity to               0.73            0.10            0.83
develop consensus on competitiveness policy issues through
public-private collaboration.
Total Baseline Cost                                                  1.48            3.97            5.45
Physical Contingencies                                              0.00            0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                                 0.15            0.25           0.40
Total Project Costs                    1.63            4.22            5.85
Total Financing Required                      1.63            4.22           5.85
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 5.85 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 85.47% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 27 -



Annex 4
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(Not Applicable)
- 28 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
Years Ending
December 31
Y Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.2        2.2       1.3        1.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          1.3        2.3       1.3        1.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              1.3        2.3       1.3        1.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   1.2       1.8        1.1       0.9        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.1        0.4        0.2        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     1.3        2.3        1.4       1.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 29 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
Procurement
A. Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World
Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below,
and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract
values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B. The aggregate notwithstanding, actual
selection methods shall be decided on the basis of half-yearly plans acceptable to the Association.
1.          Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project would include minor rehabilitation works of the pilot
Business Development Center (BDC) totaling US$0.1 million equivalent. These works would not
be financed with proceeds from the credit.
2.          Procurement of Goods and Services
The credit would finance procurement of a vehicle, computer equipment, printing services
of promotional materials, and office equipment, totaling approximately US$4 10,000 equivalent.
Computing equipment, software, scanners, copiers and office equipment will be procured using
NCB procedures; this is expected to aggregate to US$360,000. Above mentioned goods which
relate to different Project sub-components will be procured in separate packages due to the timing
of those sub-components. One vehicle and other goods and services with contracts estimated to
cost less than US$25,000 may be procured under national shopping procedures, as described in
paragraph. 3.5 of Guidelines, up to an aggregate of US$90,000.
3.          Selection of Consultants
Consulting services for studies, technical assistance, training and IEC activities will be
contracted in the areas of domestic market entry and exit policies, foreign direct investment
promotion, micro and small business development services, information technology, and business
cluster programs. The total estimated value of these services is approximately US$4.6 million.
- 30 -



(a) Firms
The total cost of the contracts to be procured using QCBS procedures is approximately
US$2.1 million. To solicit the services UCRESEP will use the Bank Standard Request for
Proposals (RFP). Contract opportunities above US$200,000 will be advertised in the
Development Business. For the selection of consultants firms in contracts valued less than
US$ 100,000 procedures Consultants' Qualifications (para. 3.7 of Guidelines) would apply.
(b) Individual Consultants
Individual national or intemational consultants, all to be selected competitively as
described in Section V of the Guidelines, would provide specialized technical assistance services
up to an aggregate amount of approximately US$ 1,350,000.
4.          Other Incremental Operational Costs
Costs associated with operational expenditures (rent, utilities, etc.) for the BDC and
incremental salaries of support staff in the NCP Management Unit would be financed on a
declining basis to ensure project sustainability. No procurement applies to the latter items. In the
case of office consumable materials, shopping procedures would apply. The total budget
allocated for these expenses is US$80,000, with a starting figure of US$2,500 per month, during
the first year.
5.          Prior review thresholds
The proposed thresholds for prior review shown on Table B are based on the procurement
capacity assessment of UCRESEP, who will act as procurement agency in the project. These
thresholds may be reviewed at the time the NCP Management Unit assumes responsibility for
these activities in the project.
B. Assessment of the a2encv's capacitv to implement procurement
Organization. The NCP Management Unit will operate under an entity named the
National Competitiveness Program (NCP) which has been jointly instituted by the Government of
Nicaragua and the private sector under countrywide framework of policy reform. It will be
assisted by UCRESEP for all matters related to procurement, financial and disbursement activities
in the project. The Executing Secretariat of the Board of the NCP would be the direct line of
communication with the Project Coordinator in the NCP Management Unit. The NCP
Management Unit would have one Project Coordinator and seven technical officers in charge of
overseeing the technical execution of the Project. Except for the technical inputs required in the
technical sections of bid or proposal documentation, and the evaluation of technical proposals,
NCP Management Unit staff would not be engaged in any procurement activity at the initial stage,
and until such times this would be agreed with IDA. Notwithstanding, the NCP Management
Unit would be responsible for the quality of technical documents and products delivered by
- 31 -



consultants as a result of any contracting done by UCRESEP.
Procurement Service Agency. It would be proposed that UCRESEP would execute the
procurement activities. At present, UCRESEP administers approximately US$60 million of
proceeds from IDA projects and other financiers. Its current structure is composed of a team of
staff involved in project coordination and financial and procurement staff all with sufficient level
of knowledge of IDA operations and financial and procurement policies and procedures that they
have acquired during project implementation of the first phase of three IDA Project. It is noted
that UCRESEP has complied with IDA's recommendation in the Economic Management
Technical Assistance Project (EMTAC) to assume direct responsibility of all procurement
activities and direct management of funds for IDA operations, including bidding and management
of a Special Accounts and revolving funds. The same services would apply for the
Competitiveness LIL project.
An action plan was agreed at negotiations. Following are the main items of the action
plan: (a) preparation of the first semi-annual procurement plan satisfactory to the IDA before
credit effectiveness, and subsequently by June 15 and December 15 of each year, (b) a junior
procurement staff would be hired to support UCRESEP and the NCP Management Unit before
credit effectiveness, (c) procurement and project management training would take place for
relevant UCRESEP and NCP Management Unit staff before effectiveness, (d) transfer of
know-how from UCRESEP's procurement staff to NCP Management Staff would take place, (e)
a consultants database would be set up before effectiveness, (f) an announcement of required
consulting services would be published in Development Business and, (g) the Operational Manual
would include all procurement processes and methods.
Specific Assessment. IDA staff conducted an assessment for this operation. The
assessment reflects the present and future cbnsiderations of risk in the Project associated with the
increased commitments assumed by UCRESEP in a number of IDA operations. All issues
reflected in the assessment will be addressed in the Action Plan agreed with the GON at
negotiations. Staff requirements, distribution of responsibilities between the NCP Management
Unit and UCRESEP, internal controls, special conditions and general the overall framework of
operation between the NCP Management Unit and UCRESEP would be established in the
Operational Manual. Under this Action plan, UCRESEP would be required to bring its installed
capacity to such a level that the risk mark is diminished in the near future to average within 6
months of project approval. This would require that UCRESEP strengthen its technical team
involved in delivery of services required by the LIL Project and others under its responsibility.
Therefore, it is recommended that IDA exerts close supervision and assistance during the first
year of project implementation in support of the learning curve of the NCP Management Unit in
IDA operations, and the period of induction of new procurement staff in UCRESEP.
Risk Assessment. The overall risk is considered in the medium to the high-risk mark.
This rating is the result of the consideration of the extensive portfolio that the GON has entrusted
to UCRESEP in IDA's operations at the present time and in the near future. The evaluation is
supported by the following findings: a) a new procurement law is currently in effect; b)
UCRESEP has acquired sufficient knowledge and skills to undertake procurement planning and
- 32 -



bidding but would be required to increase the existing capacity in the short term to assist two
more IDA projects; c) UCRESEP's organization and performance is presently satisfactory and
has good controls and information tools; d) the support systems, including an OM, will be
functioning as of project effectiveness; e) the size of project activities and type of lending
operation (LIL) indicates limited risks in the procurement environment, while procurement culture
and accountability in UCRESEP has increased; and f) the private sector is part of the NCP and in
close contact with the NCP Management Unit, a matter that may reduce political interference.
Transfer of Technology. UCRESEP would also be required to facilitate the induction
and training of technical staff in the NCP Management Unit and ensure that all its staff working
with the NCP Management Unit meet the required level of technical skills and experience required
in project implementation.
C. Procurement Plan
The Government has developed an indicative (global) procurement plan (GPAC) for the
three-year period of project implementation which provides the basis for the aggregate amounts
for the procurement methods in Table A. A detailed procurement plan would be prepared for the
first six months of project implementation and agreed upon for loan effectiveness. Subsequent
plans would be submitted semi-yearly, not later than December 15, and June 15, each year, for
review and approval by IDA.
D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from IDA's offices, a full
supervision mission would visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions six
months after Project initiation and yearly thereafter. Based on the overall risk assessment
(medium to high) the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 2 out of 6
contracts signed. It has also been agreed that IDA's first procurement supervision mission would
update the assessment as it refers to UCRESEP's installed capacity.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurm.nt Method
Expenditure Catgory    _      B           otoS       Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00         0.00         0.10         0.10
(0.00        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.00         0.40         0.11         0.00         0.51
(0.00)       (0.32)       (0.09)       (0.00)       (0.41)
3. Services                     0.00         0.00         4.57         0.00         4.57
- 33 -



(0.00)           (0.00)            (4.15)           (0.00)           (4.15)
4. Incremental Operating                  0.00              0.00             0.08              0.20            0.28
Costs
(0.00)           (0.00)            (0.05)           (0.00)           (0.05)
5. Grants                                                                    0.35                              0.35
()________________________ _  ()  (0.35)             0            (0.35)
6. Travel Related Expenditures                                               0.04                              0.04
0)               0)             (0.04)              0             (0.04)
Total                                  0.00              0.40             5.15             0.30             5.85
__(0.00)               (0.32)            (4.68)           (0.00)           (5.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21
(a) For goods and services to be procured under shopping procedures.
(b) Operating costs: on a declining basis financing of cost of salary of an assistant to the NCP Management Unit,
consumables and logistic expenditures in connection with cluster and training activities, BDC declining operating
costs (rent, utilities, security, stationary )
(c) US$350,000 grants will be disbursed to micro and small businesses to receive training services provided by
private training providers. The training providers will be selected according to the methods agreed.
- 34 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Gonsufst*                                  secthmio    MWwod
EXPe*rAtur     QCS        as        SF8       LCS       CQ       Other    N.BF.  Total Cost
A. Firms           2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.22      0.00      0.00      3.22
(1.95)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.95)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.35      0.00      1.35
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.20)    (0.00)    (1.20)
Total   2.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       1.22      1.35     0.00      4.57
(1.95)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.00)    (1.20)    (0.00)    (4.15)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 35 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                        N/A                      N/A                     N/A
2. Goods
>150                    ICB                      All
>25>150                  NCB                 First 2 contracts
<25                   Shopping               Post Review
3. Services
Firms                           >i00                    QCBS                      All
>50>100                   CQ                       All
<50                     CQ                      TOR
>50              Section V Guidelines            All
Individuals                      <50              Section V Guidelines         Tors Only
4. Travel related               N/A                      N/A                Prior Review at
expenditures                                                            semi-annual procurement
pla_n approval
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   $3.4
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
The Overall Procurement Risk Assessment is rated as Average-High.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement
Project disbursements would be based on traditional procedures including withdrawal via
SOEs. The loan proceeds would be disbursed against the categories shown in Annex 6 Table C.
Disbursement requests would be based on certified Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), except for
payments of any contract subject to prior review in goods, and contracts above US$50,000
equivalent for services of consultant firns, and US$50.000 equivalent for individual consultants.
Documentation for SOEs would be retained by UCRESEP until such time that the NCP
Management Unit assumes full responsibility for financial and procurement matters in the Project.
UCRESEP would also assume responsibility for contracting and supervising the work of external
auditors hired under the Project.
The IDA Credit would be disbursed against (a) for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures, (b) for consulting services 100% exclusive of the cluster
programs' sub-projects 85% of expenditures for consulting services, (c) for grants for micro and
small businesses for delivery of training services. A Special Account would be opened in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA in an amount equivalent to US$0.5 million. The closing date
for loan disbursements would be June 30, 2004.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expediture Categoa         Amount in US$;illion         Financing Percentage
Goods                                     0.41                      80% local,
100% foreign
Consulting Services                       3.72                        100%
Incremental Operating Costs               0.08           Incremental operating costs would be
financed on a declining basis: 100%,
until they have disbursed US$33,600;
80%, until they have disbursed
US$60,000; 60%, until they have
disbursed US$80,000.
Grants                                    0.35                        100%
Travel related expenditures               0.04                        100%
Unallocated                               0.40
Total Project Costs                       5.00
Total                                     5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement under the Project would be made against full documentation of expenditures except for the
following items, for which disbursement would be on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):
- 37 -



expenditures under contracts for goods below US$150,000 (except those subject to prior review);
consultant firms below US$50,000; individual consultants below US$50,000; all operating costs; and all
grants. Similarily per diem, training facility rental and printing of training and promotional material would
also be eligible expenditures for reimbursements on the basis of SOEs. SOE records would be made
available to IDA staff as required for inspection during supervision.
Special account:
A special account in US$ would be established in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with an
authorized allocation of $0.5m which represents the average of 4 months of eligible expenditures expected
to be paid from the account. The special account would be replenished monthly, based on reporting of
expenditures expected to be paid from the account. The special account would be replenished monthly,
based on reporting of UCRESEP and accompanied by copies of reconciled bank statements of the account.
-38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
PrQp S- iw8ui                                     P*md                        A
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      9                            7
First Bank mission (identification)             04/24/2000                   05/22/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     10/30/2000                   11/26/2000
Negotiations                                    12/04/2000         1         12/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/01/2001
Prepared by:
National Competitiveness Program staff and World Bank Task Team.
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grant TF026313.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name _ciaflty
Michaela Weber, Task Team Leader   Private Sector Development Specialist, LCSFR
James Hanna                       Lead Operations Officer, LCSFR
Geeta Batra                       Private Sector Development Specialist, PSAFI
Luis Tineo                        Private Sector Development Specialist, PSAPP
Rodrigo Ortiz                    Investnent Promotion Officer, MIGA
Damien Shiels                    Investment Policy Officer, MIGA
Eric Haythome                     Senior Counsel, LEGOP
Hong Tan, Peer Reviewer           Lead Economist, WBIHD
Benjamin Rowland, Peer Reviewer   Program Manager, PSAFB
Livio Pino                        Senior Financial Management Specialist, LCOAA
Michael Fowler                    Disbursement Officer
Rosa Estrada                      Procurement Analyst, LCSHD
Mariangeles Sabella               Counsel, LEGLA
Carlos Zuniga                     NCP, Executive Director
Carlos Vega                       NCP, Project Coordination
Mauricio Peralta                  MIFIC, General Director of Competition Policy
Jaime Pfaeffle                    CEI, General Manager
Miriam Jarquin                    Coordinator of Commercial Registry, Supreme Court
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
A. Project Implementation Plan
Nicaragua: Competitiveness LIL - Draft Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Financial Management Assessment and Financial Management Action Plan
* Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement and Procurement Supervision
Plan
* Nicaragua Competitiveness LIL - Procurement Assessment
C. Other
* Nicaragua IT Study, Vicepresidency of Nicaragua
* Nicaragua Skills, Technology and Productivity Survey, Grupo Servicios
* The Business Environment in Nicaragua - Results from a Private Sector Survey, G. Batra, August
2000
* Diagnostic coffee study, R. Bendana, October 2000
* Source book on productive sectors in Nicaragua, Weber/Eguiluz, July 2000
*Including electronic files
- 40 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and artual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA         SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P064915       2000 AGTECHN & RURAL EDU                                0.00      23.63                            0.00     23.27       0.97      0.00
P040197       1999 FISE III                                           0.00      45.00                            0.00     18.14      -2.04      0.00
P052080       1999 FORESTRY                                           0.00       9.00                            0.00      7.00       2.27      0.00
P035080       1995 INSTIlUTIONAL DEV CR                               0.00      23.00                            0.00      0.20       0.57      0.00
P049296       2000 NI ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TAC                         0.00      20.90                            0.00     19.07      -0.80      0.00
P007783       1995 NlEasic Educabton Project                         0.00      47.20                            0.00      1.95      -8.76      5.26
P035753       1998 NIUHEALTH SECT 11                                  0.00      24.00                            0.00     16.96       4.22      0.00
P050613       2000 NU'SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                  0.00      52.50                            0.00     41.42     -10.00      0.00
P056087       2000 Pension and Financial Market Reforrn TA            0.00       8.00                            0.00      7.48       0.00      0.00
P007788       1996 ROADS REHAB & MAINT                                0.00      25.00                            0.00      0.03       1.60      0.00
P007790       1997 RURAL MUNICIPALITIES                               0.00      30.00                            0.00      2.01      -4.00      0.00
P055853       2000 TELECOMMUNIC. REFORM                               0.00      15.90                            0.00      9.41       2.73      0.00
P053705       1998 TRANSPORTII                                        0.00      47.40                            0.00     24.64      -4.39      0.00
Total:       0.00      371.53                           0.00      171.58     -17.63      5.26
- 41-



NICARAGUA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000               Finarca                         2.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    1.67    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Frutan                         2.00     1.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.64      0.00    0.0(
1998               La Colonia                     4.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    2.00    0.00       0.50    O.OC
1999               SEF Dicegsa                     1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00      0.00    0.0C
Total Portfolio:         9.00     1.60    0.50      0.00    5.67     0.64     0.50     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
-42 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NICARAGUA: Competitiveness LIL
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Amorica      Low-      _   _   _      _  
Nicaragua   & Carib.  Income       Development diamond,
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        4.9       509     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, U$s)                    430      3,840       410
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       2.1      1,955      988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         2.7       1.6        1,9
Labor force (%N                                        4.0       2.5       2.3      GNP                             Gross
Most recent estlmate (latest year available, 19934S9)                               capita                      enprimary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   48
Urban population (% of total population)               56         75        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       66         70        60
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)               40         31        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             20          8        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       67        75        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15.)                   20         12        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  101       113        96Nicaragua
Male                                                100                  102              -  Low-income group
Female                                               102                  86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      19         199
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                            1.6      1.0       2.1       2.3
Gross domestic irtestmenVGDP                 .5.7     27.5      33A       42.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP            42.0     32.5      35.8      33.6                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    8.2     -5.2      -8.6      -12.6
Gross national savingsJGDP                   -0 9    -26.1      -5.7       -7.2
Current account balanrefGDP                   2.5    .53.2     -29.4    -36.9       D
Interest paymentslGDP                         2.3      0.2       4.0       5.2      Domestic      F             Investment
Total debt/GDP                               97.8    952.5     280.7     281.0      Savings
Total debt servicoeexports                    &9       3,3       23.2      27.6
Present value of debt/GOP                                .     246A
Present vatue of debt/exports                                  484.1 
Indebtedness
1979-89  19S8-99     1998      1919  1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 -1.0      2.S      4.1        7.0       .2             -     Nicaragua
GNP per capita                      -4.4      2.2      6.4       4.6        3.7                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and serviQes       -7.4      7.9      0.2        6.7       4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (-)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  28.3     32.0       33.0      31.6     40
Industry                                     28.6     22.3      21.6      22.8    2.
Manufacturing                              24.6     17.6       15.1      14.4
Services                                     43.1     45.7      45.4       45.7 o
{   94   ss   sel5  97   98  899
Private consumption                          74.0     78.5      92.4      94.4    -20
General government consumption               17.9     26.7      16.3       18.2             -GDI                GDP
Imports of goods and services                28.1     65.2      77.9      88.7
(aerageannualgrow)1979-89  1989-99  11998  1999  Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  -2.6      4.7        3.5       4.8    20
Industry                                     -0.7      3.4       5.1       12.6                                   O
Manufacturing                              -14        1.4       2.1       3.3
Services                                     -0.4      1.3        3.7       4.5
Private consumption                          -3.5      4.5       10.4       5.6    10s    94    5   96   97   98   99
General government consumption                7.3     -3.0       0.1        9.6
Gross domestic investment                    -3.0     10.0      13.5       39.8   |20
Imports of goods and services                -0.6      9.0      12.9       19.8           -     E.ports   OImports
Gross national product                       -1.6      5.1        9.3       7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 43 -



Nicaragua
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Dornestic prices
(% change)                                                                       30
Consumer prices                             48.1  4,709.3      13.0      11.2    2i
Implicit GDP deflator                       31.7  4,709.3      13.0      11.2
10   >
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                               a
Current revenue                                ..      ..      26.2     25.1             94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                        ..       ..       5.0      5.4            -     GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -4.8    -11.7
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          567     311        573      544    2.000
Coffee                                     159       90       173       135
Shrimp and lobster                          22       11        79       86      1500-
Manufactures                               118       48       125       109
Total imports (of)                           360     615      1,492    1,846    1,000 *E
Food                                        78       90       357      441       s_
Fuel and energy                             76       94       144       161
Capital goods                               46      200       452       597       o
93 94 9            9         9
Export price index (1995=100)                 65      78         90       83
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                    56      81        112      109                mExports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    116      97         81       76
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(USs milooons)
Exports of goods and services                623     333        830      839      o        __             _     _
Importsofgoods and services                  511     667      1,517    1,800
Resource balance                             112    -334       -687     -961
-20
Net income                                   -73    -205       -170     -176
Net current transfers                          0       0    232   300    1                          1111
Current account balance                       39    -539       -626     -837 
Financing items (net)                        -42     471        620      955
Changes in net reserves                        3      68          6     -118     40 I
MwenO:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       156     164        357      510
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)         1.85E-9  3.02E-3      10.6      11.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,533    9,651     5,968    6,372
IBRD                                       85      221         15        9                       A 9
IDA                                        23       60       487       598                 G: 750     B:598
Total debt service                            56       11       251      321          F- 409
IBRD                                        8        0         11        7
IDA                                         0        0          4        5
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               D: 1,567
Official grants                             45      173       345      310
Official creditors                          99     570        187      135
Private creditors                           -5      1 1       -13       18
Foreign direct investment                    3       0        184      143
Portfolb equity                             0        0          0        0             E:2,990
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0       0       238        91      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                8       0        105      120      B - IDA    D - Other mulilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                         4       0         10        7      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                    5       0         95      114
Interest payments                            5       0          5        5
Net transfers                                0       0         90      108
Development Economics                                                                                             9/12/00
-44 -



N I C A R A G U A                                                         H O N D U R A S
DEPARTMENTS                                                                                                                          LAGOON    . 
Bilwaskarmo
Department boundaries                                                          APorYlupi                    \                  IS
olti          Prlp                                       MISQUITOS 
0    National capital                                         (
Cities and towns                                                   _                                                   )
{ Auctnsy   /     _                      I        J/~~~~~~~PAHARA LAGOON
International Boundaries                                                                                                      LAGOONna     ~ A 
-1 4_                                                                                     FuLa Rosita  Puerto Cobetas                                  14
t   ES    J I N O T E G A  /L<                   X             ?/;??WNA LAGOON
nt              EGV                                         ATLANTC                         X       /
1-Mariau  oc tci I                                                    T,CO
_/J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NO R TE                                                          W3UNTA LAGOON
Puerto Isobel
G ULFI<C E 
FONSFC4  E teli                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CARIBBEAN SEA
MPtagospa <t    Somotillo    \  _Sr                                                0 G    20   40   60   80   ia8   120  140  160
I    MotIgolpa                    I   >{ <~ _ < >| z { t t z t 8 1  KILOMETERS
DEGArozon   Iv_   I E O N                         4             S                                                                                                         W A, 1D  1  l  t I  I  I    MILES
a    d      ega/ M-alpaisillo                                                     A TL A N T I C    P-                             20       40       60       80       100
Crbtrinto< Leon                                Boaco   B                  OAC S U R 1\{
LPERlASLAGOON   MAEZ        .             CAR SBEAN SEA;
Puerto Sanio:                                         C H O N T A L E S \ ~  E luf   O
12-tux { <        IGanoa   San Ubaldo                                 B LUEFIELDS BAY
af  Jinoteprj/NndX                                                                                                 ,_S  >lALVAD j    
La Boquia  \                                    M     rrito        T                                                                        NICARAGU A;
Rivas            )
IVA               NICARAGUA
X  Penos ~Blontcas                   n 5C  os    <                UTA GO3RDA BAY                        Area of Maip      
PACIFIC OCEAN                San ivan del Sur      fe/ n                                                      PUT arRs  BAY
r                              (       C                     O                      J< <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A XJfUaAnN eEooRYE sAr  O '-----    KILOMETERS'   ,     C     w
rn~~~                                               ~    ~~~~~ COSTI CA                       ,s<    .44           jaia    eoeCCENDNAAr
h)                                                                                                                                                                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~~~~~~  RICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~08010RC
C 0  S T                                                                    0   50  100                                     ai~~~~~0 84



MAP SECTION



1  860                         ~8.
N I C A RA G U A                                                          H O N D U R A S
"Go0                   w    iOOONs 
DEPARTMENTS                                                                                                 Bilwoakorm
{ ~~~~~~~~~Bilwaskarma                                                                pw of tfieWolduM
Department boundaries                                            aiti            PoralupiS
National capital                                   (,LAN,
Cities and towns l>Xt
- International Boundaries                     XAuanay             (                                               tPAHA   LAGOON
-14                                              /-2              /                     _)Bonanza           La Rositav~t              ; jPuerto Cobezous -4
t   d5    JINOTEGA  /                                                   L,  S   7iKARW TAAGOON
n:          NSUEG   V A 7g                                 A T L A NTIC  \
Maria   Ocotalt                                 
qJ                            ~~~~~~~~~~N OR TE                     WOUNr AL445ON
- SomotoLa Vigag.Kikia'<4
K uik uin                            I  Puerto    Isabel
FONSECA                                 Estel  7     _                                                                                                          CARMEAN SEA
In,, / Stillo:                                                                                                          \   MATAGALPA -  //     < 0    20   40   60   80   100  120  140  t60
< ~ J J Matagalpa                            &\J ---                                                         tI  I    I    i 1   I  KILOMETERS
M           o          razcin L E   Cl              N          C          uy             /         L    )    I    I    t    I    g   i   MfLEL
\,CHINANDEGA                                                                                /                t ' ~ 1l 0  20   40       60       80       100
Cidega_                                                    
Coi                     Len                               a\  M-4 SWUI                                                                                                          R  aR  '
PELSLAGOON   MAZ          LEE AeBANSA                 8
BLUEFLELOSISLANBA16
Puaerto Sandino \ _4               Xt                 C H O N T A L E S      tP                                   -ORD EBfHONDUE G                                              _
12°,                                               m                   Jugrooa l\a                                    Bluefields- -1                   12,. _t r/
)li'                        San >  JF  Uboldo                                  OLUfELOBAY 4N BAY           XEL----            
lLa Boqt -M,rt                                                                                                                             N         
<~~~<,- ~      F     " a racia      \-ITlrXC 
Rivas            )                  ,                                                                                 Mona 02             '        12-
R I V A t      NICARAGUA      \,\   
a    tnos Bla~ncos                 Soan Corlos  tSPN  GORDA BAY                                         Area of Mp §               *
PACIFIC OCEAN                Son Juan del Sur<    \==_                liO     ti       PA     OCEON
C C° ut \\                                                  jJuuaAnNdDelEtNNoOrtRTE8AY llo 6 txlLoMETER5 ~4\A et w
IX  816s n X t er ti4 '<                              ~~~~~~          ~          ~        ~~R I C A                                                      PA'°sOR  )    aflOCEAN   DNM 



