                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR0000342




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-34560)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR4.0 MILLION
                        (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                        THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                      FOR A

           COMPETITIVENESS LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN




                                  January 18, 2007




Private Sector Development and Finance
Central America Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           ( Exchange Rate Effective 11/21/2006 )
                                Currency Unit = NIO
                                     NIO 1.00 = US$ 0.056
                                     US$ 1.00 = NIO 17.81


                                         Fiscal Year
                                  January 1 - December 31




                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANITEC       Nicaraguan Association of Apparel and Textile Manufacturing Industries
BDS          Business Development Services
CANISLAC Nicaraguan Dairy Sector Chamber (Cámara Nicaragüense del Sector Lácteo)
CEI          Export and Investment Center (Centro de Exportaciones e Inversion)
             Presidencial Commission on Competitiveness (Comisión Presidencial de
CPC
             Competitividad)
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Service
IADB         Inter-American Development Bank
INATEC       National Technological Institute (Instituto Nacional Tecnológico)
IT           Information Technology
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
MAGFOR       Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (Ministerio Agropecuario y Florestal)
             Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Ministerio de Ambiente y
MARENA
             Recursos Naturales)
             Ministry of the Treasury and Public Credit (Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito
MHCP
             Publico)
MIFIC        Ministry of Economy (Ministerio de Fomento Industrial y Comercio)
MIGA         Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MSE         Micro and Small Enterprises
             Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure (Ministerio de Transporte e
MTI
             Infraestructura)
NicaExport   Center for Export Promotion (Centro de Promoción de Exportaciones)
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PNC          National Competitiveness Program (Programa Nacional de Competitividad)
PND          National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo)
PROCOMPE Competitiveness Program (Programa de Competitividad)
PRSC-I       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
ProNicaragua Nicaragua Investment Promotion Agency

SETEC   Office of the President (Secretaria Técnica de la Presidencia)
SME     Small and Micro Enterprise
UCRESEP Coordinating Unit for the Public Sector Reform and Modernization Program




                          Vice President: Pamela Cox

                       Country Director: Jane Armitage

                         Sector Manager: Susan G. Goldmark

                    Project Team Leader: Michael J. Goldberg

                                                     Nicaragua
                                         NI Competitiveness LIL




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 22
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 26
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 26
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 29
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 33
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 34
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 36
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 40
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 41
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 43
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 44
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 45
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 46
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 47
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 48
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 49

1. Basic Information

Country:                Nicaragua             Project Name:           NI Competitiveness
                                                                      LIL

Project ID:             P070016               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-34560,IDA-
                                                                      3456A

ICR Date:               01/18/2007            ICR Type:               Intensive Learning
                                                                      ICR(ILI)

Lending Instrument:     LIL                   Borrower:               REPUBLIC OF
                                                                      NICARAGUA
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 4.0M              Disbursed Amount:       XDR 3.8M

Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Economy MIFIC
Pres. Commission Competitiveness
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

      Process             Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 10/24/2000           Effectiveness:     06/29/2001        06/29/2001
Appraisal:         11/14/2000        Restructuring(s):                    10/27/2003
Approval:          03/15/2001        Mid-term Review:                     07/21/2003
                                     Closing:           06/30/2004        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                       Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               21               21
Law and justice                                                  2                2
Micro- and SME finance                                          24               24
General industry and trade sector                               53               53
                                                  Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regulation and competition policy                  Primary          Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                Primary          Secondary
Other financial and private sector development     Primary          Secondary
Export development and competitiveness             Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                      At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                   Pamela Cox       David de Ferranti

Country Director:                                 Jane Armitage    D-M Dowsett-
                                                                   Coirolo

Sector Manager:                                   Susan G.         Susan G.
                                                  Goldmark         Goldmark

Project Team Leader:                              Michael J.
                                                  Goldberg         Michaela J. Weber

ICR Team Leader:                                  Michael J.
                                                  Goldberg
ICR Primary Author:                               Stefka Slavova




                                              2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


At the time of project design and early implementation, Nicaragua lagged behind its Central
American neighbors in competitiveness. In 2002, for example, the Global Economic Forum's
World Competitiveness Index ranked Nicaragua 75th out of 80 countries, citing the lack of
development in exports, technological capacity, and private sector development. This confirmed
the findings of four cluster diagnostic studies completed by UNIDO in 1998 and a World Bank
SME study in 2000, both of which found a lack of basic business services to micro and small
businesses. A survey of 161 firms on skills, technology and productivity was also conducted
during project preparation.1 It revealed drawbacks in the level of training of employees, and
indicated that Nicaraguan firms used mostly in-house training mechanisms. The structure of
production remained based largely on agriculture and some agro-industry, and industrial
production was highly concentrated in Managua and a few secondary cities. Business associations
tended to promote individual interests, rather than collaborating to improve the overall
competitiveness of the sector.2

This decline was the long-term result of the political instability and civil war of the 1980s. At the
beginning of the 1990s, Nicaragua returned to democracy, and entered a period of economic
stability. However, the legacy of civil war and political disruption had left Nicaragua behind other
Central American countries in terms of enterprise productivity, labor skills, and institutional
capacity. Moreover, the country's recent political history had contributed to a lack of trust
between the Government and the private sector

Within this context, Nicaragua's National Competitiveness Program (Programa Nacional de
Competitividad, PNC) began in 1998 as part of the 21st Century Agenda for Central America.
The PNC initiated activities to improve the competitiveness of key sectors with growth potential,
including   tourism,   agro-industry,    coffee,  dairy     products,   and    light  manufacturing
(textiles/apparel). The PNC helped organize clusters intended to bring together firms and
government policymakers to share technological advances and discuss industry issues. The
Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Project grew out of the PNC and was designed when
Nicaragua was negotiating its participation in the Central America Free Trade Agreement
(CAFTA).



6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the overall Project Development
Objective (PDO) of the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was to (i) test
private-public partnerships for developing consensus on business environment issues, (ii) pilot




1Geeta Batra, Nicaragua: Enhancing Competitiveness through Skills, World Bank. 2000.
2Subsequently, the 2004 Nicaragua Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) sheds further light on the main
microeconomic obstacles to growth and competitiveness, and informed project managers about potential
new directions of work.


                                                 3

information technology-based business development services (BDS), and (iii) seek effective
ways of increasing private sector participation in key business environment policy reforms.

This was one of the first LILs in Latin America and in the Bank's portfolio. As a LIL, the project
specified testing and learning objectives. The project intended to test the cluster methodology as
well as private sector participation in policy reform. Linkages among project components were
to be an integral part of the project, so that learning in one cluster or policy area would feed into
the process of the others. An important goal of the LIL was to replicate successful learning
experiences on cross-cluster business environment policy issues, and adjust and replicate the pilot
IT-based BDS. As with all LILs, there was flexibility in terms of supporting those pilots and tests
that showed promise and shifting funds from others that did not demonstrate significant impact or
support from the private and public sectors.

The improved competitiveness of the country was to be achieved by three activities covering the
firm level, the business environment, and the sustainability of institutional arrangements. At the
firm level, the project would promote well-functioning and inclusive business clusters and pilot
service and delivery innovation of sustainable information technology-based (IT) business
developing services (BDS) to micro and small businesses (MSBs). These clusters were supposed
to go far beyond existing arrangements, becoming geographic concentrations of businesses and
organizations in related industries, including competitors, producers, buyers, suppliers of
specialized services, financial institutions, specialized universities, research centers, and
policymakers. The pilot clusters were intended to be fully organized after three years, with three
initiatives to increase sector productivity per cluster. In addition, IT-based BDS for MSBs were
to be piloted in Masaya (a town 10 miles south of Managua), resulting in coverage between 30
and 40 percent of all MSBs in two municipalities. At the same time, private sector training
providers increased by 30 percent. (See Annex 1 for achievements for all project activities.)

The second activity was focused on improvements in the business environment, including pilot
reforms to establish domestic competition policies, as well as the institutions and administrative
procedures needed to promote private sector in-firm training, foreign investment promotion and
an improved commercial registry. This was to be measured in terms of increased sustained
private participation in policy-making, and improvements in policies for domestic competition
and foreign direct investment (FDI) promotion.

Finally, the project was intended to ensure the sustainability of the National Competitiveness
Program (NCP) to facilitate private-public policy dialogue and to assist in implementing sector
and policy reforms. The PROCOMPE management unit was to have the capability to (i) facilitate
effectively public-private collaboration on competitiveness policy issues, (ii) adjust and replicate
a business development center (BDC) model after the pilot, and (iii) monitor and evaluate
effectively private-public reform activities.



6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification
The project development objectives were not formally revised.
The Bank mission team that carried out the mid-term evaluation proposed a restructuring of the
logical framework, changes in the project activities and performance indicators, a reallocation of
funds, and one change in the project components (See Section 6.6). The new logical framework
served as the basis for the project's plan of activities from 2004 through project completion in
June 2006.



                                                   4

The mid-term evaluation led to an adjustment of project activities; however the changes were not
significant and were, therefore, not codified in a formal amendment to the Credit Agreement. No
new activities were added, and no new institutions joined in the implementation of the project.
The main change was a redistribution of funds to support BDS and other activities through
cluster work. In addition, no further investments were made in IT-based BDS activities. In
addition, the targets in the original logical framework were more clearly defined and quantified.

An October 2003 amendment to the Credit Agreement reallocated the budget among expenditure
categories (increasing the amount for consultancies and reducing the amount for goods), and
increased the number of goods that could be purchased under national shopping procedures. A
second amendment, approved by senior Bank management in April 2004: (i) adjusted the names
of project institutions to reflect the evolution of the CPC, NicaExport and ProNicaragua; (ii)
modified certain cost categories; and (iii) modified the definition and scope of the BDS
component (removing the IT-based element and integrating BDS into the cluster component). In
addition, the Government and the Bank agreed upon a new action plan to accelerate
implementation. When all six elements of the action plan were completed in January 2004, the
rating on the project's implementation performance was raised to satisfactory. This cleared the
way for a one-year extension of the closing date to June 30, 2005.

Indicators were revised as follows:
(i) Target growth rates were set for sectors supported by the project (tourism, coffee, dairy
products, and light manufacturing (mainly textiles)), rather than for the economy as a whole; and
(ii) Targets and specific actions in four specific areas of the business environment were specified
(domestic competition policy, foreign investment and export promotion, commercial registries,
and the public sector technical education and training system).

Annex 1 shows the original and revised logical frameworks, and a mapping of the original and
revised performance indicators.



6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The project benefited a broad audience of public sector policymakers and private sector investors
and business owners. Communities gained by having more economic activity and through jobs
creation, thanks to the cluster approach and emphasis on new business registration. By
coordinating the public and private sectors in the field of competitiveness, the project
counterparts (CPC and MIFIC) took the lead in the preparations for the CAFTA negotiations
(which began during project implementation) and promotion. This contributed to the successful
negotiation of the final agreement, a broad consensus in the country, and approval by the
National Assembly.

Table 1 Project Benefits
 Beneficiary                 Benefits
 Clusters (sectoral          Increased exports (ranging from 23 percent for coffee to 85 percent
 groups of firms             for tourism, meat up 68 percent, and cheese 85 percent; See Annex 1)
 participating in the
 project)                    Increased employment (from 38 percent for tourism to 67 percent for
                             light manufacturing)



                                                  5

                       Four original clusters strengthened (policies, strategies, and projects)

                       Cluster strategies included in National Development Plan (2003).

                       In tourism, light manufacturing, and dairy products, laws drafted for
                       sectors
                       In light manufacturing, indicators were established to promote the
                       formalization of commercial contracts
                       Five white cheese firms begin ISO and HACCP certification (first in
                       sector)

                       Four new clusters (shrimp, wood, beef and cocoa) organized and
                       received training, technical assistance and institutional support
New firms              Doing Business indicators show a drop in business registration time,
                       thanks partly to project interventions

                       One-stop shop - time required to launch a business dropped from 30
                       to 15 days
Existing firms         Doing Business indicators show a drop in licensing and inspection
                       time, improvements in export and import processes

                       Improvements in business and property registration, export
                       procedures (CETREX), expatriate residence procedures, customs
                       procedures in the Free Zones, and licenses for municipal
                       construction.

                       Draft free zone law prepared, presented to National Assembly

                       Draft Registry law prepared, presented to the National Assembly

                       Competition law draft passed by the National Assembly, October
                       2006
Government agencies    Agencies learned how to reach environmental, production targets
(MIFIC, MARENA,        while preserving the competitiveness of the private sector and of the
MTI, Ministry of       country
Agriculture)
                       Strengthened capacity of MIFIC Competition and Market
                       Transparency Unit
CEI (later Pro-        Institutional development -- Professional technical assistance in
Nicaragua)             foreign direct investment development and management

                       311 CEI staff trained in investment promotion, export strategies
                       (target 100)

                       12,050 jobs created, 2003 through 2005 (target was 5,000)
                       Pro-Nicaragua attracted US$137.7 million in foreign direct
                       investment in 2004 and 2005. (target was US$27 million)
CEI (later NicaExport) Professional technical assistance in foreign direct investment
                       development



                                             6

 Presidential              Institutional development - developed technical expertise in project
 Competitiveness           design, development and monitoring; developed internal systems to
 Commission (CPC)          enable it to work with other donors in management of large projects




6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The three components of the project were:

    · Component 1: Business clusters and pilot sustainable IT-based BDS
    · Component 2: Pilot reform of competitiveness policies, institutions and administrative
        procedures related to private sector development
    · Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Sustainability

Table 2 Original and Revised Investment Amounts by Component
     Component               Original          Original % of               Revised     Revised % of
                          Amount (US$            total credit          Amount (US$      total credit
                             million)                                     million)*
 Business clusters              2.5                  50%                     3.17            58
 and BDS
 Reforms of                     1.73                  35                     1.45            26
 competitiveness
 policies and
 institutions
 Project Management             0.77                  15                     0.86            16
 and Institutional
 Sustainability
 Total                        US$5.0                100%                   US$5.5          100%
 * The revised amount exceeds the original loan because the Special Drawing Rights currency (used for
 IDA loans) appreciated significantly against the dollar during the life of the loan.

Component 1: Business clusters and pilot sustainable IT-based BDS
Based on the original project design, the activities under this component included:

    · facilitate the organization of four clusters, undertake cluster diagnostic studies, and
        establish baselines.
    · identify cross-cluster constraints and support reform proposals.
    · develop strategies, operational plans, and activities to improve the productivity, quality,
        and efficiency of included sectors.
    · promote and disseminate in the cluster methodology, finding ways to include small
        businesses in rural areas.
    · establish cluster information networks.
    · test an IT-based BDS in Masaya to provide training, assistance in quality assurance,
        export facilitation, product design, and information on financing and government
        services to SMEs.




                                                    7

Component 2: Pilot reform of competitiveness policies, institutions and administrative
procedures related to private sector development

This component focused on four areas:

    · competition policy:      to increase MIFIC's capacity to promote domestic competition
        through training and TA in deregulation, anti-competitive practices policies, industry
        standards and metrology, and consumer protection.
    · investment and export promotion:           to provide technical assistance and training to
        improve the strategy and promotional activities of the Centro de Exportaciones e
        Inversion (CEI).
    · commercial registry and commercial code: to provide goods and technical assistance to
        improve the commercial registry's regulatory framework and offices, and recommend
        improvements in the commercial code.
    · the public technical education and training system: to develop an action plan and pilot
        program for the reform of the public training system that would include the private sector
        in the management and provision of training.

Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Sustainability
This component was originally intended to provide technical assistance, training, and other
support to strengthen the capacity of the PROCOMPE Management Unit. PROCOMPE was a
government program inside the Ministry of Economy (the Ministry of Industrial Development
and Commerce, MIFIC, is known as and functions as the Ministry of Economy).



6.6 Revised Components

The original three components remained largely the same during the life of the project. During
the mid-term review, the Bank and the CPC revised Component 1 to support BDS activities
through the sectoral clusters, rather than using an IT-based service. This decision was based on
experience during the first part of the project. The new approach to BDS activities was based on
demand and covered several economically dynamic regions of the country (rather than focusing
exclusively on Masaya). The October 2003 amendment revised the BDS activity's objective to:
"provide BDS in the form of training, assistance in quality assurance, export facilitation, product
design, and information on financing and government services to SMEs in selected sectors."


6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

To enable the project to reach and exceed most of its targets, two very important institutional
changes took place. First, the Government, through a presidential decree and in consultation with
private sector representatives, replaced MIFIC as the project's executing agency with the newly
created Presidential Competitiveness Commission (Comision Presidencial de Competitividad,
CPC). The CPC is composed of a Technical Secretariat of experts and a Board, whose members
included representatives of the private sector and the public sector (See Figure 1).




                                                  8

                              Figure 1 CPC Organizational Chart


                                   CPC BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
                                        Representative, SETEC
                                           Minister MIFIC
                                          Minister MAGFOR
                                             Minister MTI
                                           Minister MHCP
                                          Minister MARENA
                                  7 Representatives from Private Sector



                                          CPC Executive Director
                                             (CPC Secretariat)




  Business Climate          Cluster                           Monitoring and           Procurement and
                          Development                            Evaluation               Financial
                                                             (Competitiveness            Management
                                                               Observatory)


Since its creation, the CPC has progressively taken on the responsibility for executing the
National Competitiveness Program. With the participation of the Office of the President and the
four ministries, the public sector has remained firmly committed to the project and the overall
competitiveness strategy. Moreover, the private sector has become a full partner in the CPC,
eventually taking the lead on the Board and in specialized Board commissions.

Second, the Government moved two of CEI's functions-export promotion and foreign investment
promotion--to two separate agencies. NicaExport became responsible for export promotion and
ProNicaragua, for foreign investment promotion. This restructuring was a direct result of the
Bank project team's technical advice (particularly MIGA), based on strategic and operational
plans for the new institutions. During the second phase of the project, the autonomy and
institutional capacity of both NicaExport and ProNicaragua increased dramatically. Thanks in
part to relationships developed during the initial phase and to the highly professional technical
assistance offered by MIGA, both institutions improved their operational performance
dramatically (See Annex 1).


         Table 3 Institutional Evolution of the CPC Board and Technical Secretariat
 Characteristics           2001-2003                                     Late 2003 to Present
 Institutional set-up      PROCOMPE (Division within                     CPC (Comision Presidencial de
                           Ministry of Economy,                          Competitividad) (Mixed public-
                           100% governmental)                            private institution, autonomous)
 Board composition         CPC Board (7 members)                         CPC Board (13 members) 5
                           4 Ministers and 3 private sector              Ministers, 1 representative from
                           representatives                               the President's office and 7
                                                                         private sector representatives



Between project launch and the midterm review, there were five MIFIC project management
coordinators, and three cluster coordinators. This organizational instability had a significant




                                                      9

million (See Figures 2 and 3 below). After the midterm review and follow-up discussions, the
CPC selected a successful businessman to serve as Secretariat Executive Director, and other
experienced technicians were hired to manage the components. (See discussion in Section 10.2.)

The Figures below show the planned and actual disbursements for the project, and reveal the
improvements made after the mid-term review.


        6000000                                                                  2500000


        5000000
                                                                                 2000000


        4000000

                                                                                 1500000

     US$3000000                                                               $
                                                                               US

                                                                                 1000000
        2000000



        1000000                                                                   500000


              0
                 FY01   FY02        FY03       FY04         FY05     FY06              0
                                                                                          FY01   FY02   FY03     FY04     FY05   FY06
                         Planned disbursements Actual disbursements
                                                                                                         Planned  Actual



  Figure 1 Cumulative Disbursements: Planned                                Figure 2 Yearly Disbursements: Planned and
                         and Actual                                                                  Actual



For its part, the Bank had two project management teams during the first two years of the
project. After the midterm review, a new task team leader with experience in supervision of
competitiveness projects (supported by a co-task team leader) took over management
responsibilities and there were no further changes at this level. To enable cross-fertilization of
ideas among Bank competitiveness projects subsequently developed in Central America. (See
discussion in Section 10.1.), a Bank team member with experience in other competitiveness
projects supervised each component.


7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project experienced early implementation delays related to a number of factors. First, the
project was designed and made effective (June 29, 2001) during the Alemán Administration
(1997-2001), but was not launched until February 2002, one month into the Bolaños
Administration (2002-2006). During this election cycle, it was difficult to attract qualified
personnel to government positions that might have been affected by the election. As a result,
some staff positions remained unfilled until the new government took office. Second, it took
some time and effort to establish a fully operational structure with the CPC and the Executive
Secretariat. Third, the project lacked a system of good project monitoring and results indicators.
Finally, electronic business products and delivery systems were poorly developed in Nicaragua
(and throughout the region) at the start of implementation, making it difficult to offer the planned
IT-based BDS services.

Quality at entry was moderately satisfactory. The Bank, the counterparts and private sector
representatives worked in close collaboration to prepare the innovative project. The project's
objectives were highly relevant, putting the counterparts (with strong project support) in a


                                                                          10

position to play a leadership role in forming the National Competitiveness Agenda and promoting
CAFTA dialogue. The design of the business and investment climate work was well-conceived,
and pre-dated the Bank's Doing Business approach. The cluster work was well designed, leading
to a dramatic increase in demand from ten clusters for business services (250% more than the
original target of four clusters). The project was able to support only eight clusters, due to
resource limitations. The project also helped to set the stage for the IFC's investment in municipal
level business and investment climate work for which the CPC continues to play a role as the
main counterpart (See Box 1).

Box 1 IFC Activities in Business Climate Improvement
 The IFC started new operations in Nicaragua in 2004, through the multi-donor funded LAC
 Technical Assistance Facility, to support SME capacity building and access to finance. The
 Facility seeks to improve the business enabling environment for SMEs, and to simplify
 administrative procedures In addition, with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the Facility
 strengthens the competitiveness of the wood sector. The IFC is also partnering with the local
 Chamber of Commerce (CACONIC) and the Association of Municipalities (AMUNIC), and
 collaborating with the Bank's competitiveness program and CPC, in a pilot project in Leon,
 Masaya, and Granada to facilitate licensing of new businesses and provision of construction
 permits. The project is expected to include Managua next year. The IFC plans to expand its
 operations in the country by supporting physical infrastructure and improvements in key
 sectors (agriculture, industry and services).


As one of the first LILs and one of the first Bank project to address directly the constraints to
competitiveness, this project was very innovative for its time. Moreover, it could not benefit from
lessons learned in other competitiveness projects.

At the project level, the initial monitoring and evaluation system was not well defined.
Additionally, the scale and technical design of the relatively small IT-based BDS activity in
Component 1 proved to be beyond the capacities of the beneficiaries. The selection of Masaya (a
tourist zone near Managua) had been based on the region's economic dynamism, high levels of
entrepreneurship, and location, but the activity required levels of education, business skills and
planning not found in the target population. In addition, electronic business products and delivery
systems were poorly developed in Nicaragua (and throughout the region) in 2001.



7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The project was approved on January 19, 2001 and became effective on June 29, 2001. Despite
this five-month lapse, implementation got off to a slow start because of a lack of experience in
MIFIC with the Bank's contracting requirements. Disbursements were therefore behind the
original and optimistic targets set in the project design (See Figures 1 and 2 above).

MIFIC, the private sector representatives and the Bank project team identified a weakness in the
BDS component, which relied on a high tech solution and had a limited geographic scope. In
addition, it proved difficult for MIFIC (PROCOMPE) to coordinate efficiently with the clusters,
since they were just in the formation stage. One bright spot in early implementation was the
relationship built between MIGA and ProNicaragua, which led to impressive results. For
example, in an interview, Damien Shiels of MIGA cited ProNicaragua as a best practice example
in the Latin America region. This was confirmed in a MIGA regional study in 2004. (See Section


                                                  11

8.2 on ProNicaragua awards and accomplishments.)

The CPC and the Bank selected a local consultant to provide independent technical inputs before
the midterm review. The consultant found that early project implementation was not consistent
with the original logical framework. With extensive CPC and Bank advice and technical inputs,
the consultant recommended a revised logical framework, with monitoring indicators that more
clearly reflected project performance (see MC2 Group, Evaluación de Medio Término, and
MarcoLógico). The Bank and the CPC accepted this new logical framework and integrated BDS
with cluster activities. This resulted in increase coverage. Although implementation of all
components improved by mid-2003, the project was rated unsatisfactory during the mid-term
review in its implementation progress, compliance with agreed processing schedules, and
monitoring and evaluation (See Annex 5).

In April, 2005, the Bank granted a second request for a one-year extension (to June 30, 2006).
The reasons for the extension were: (i) to provide bridge financing until effectiveness of the
follow-on project; (ii) to take advantage of institutional performance and strong strategic
alliances; and (iii) to use the extra funds that resulted from the depreciation of the U.S. dollar
relative to the SDR.

Project implementation improved dramatically after the mid-term review, in terms of quantitative
indicators, legal and regulatory contributions, and disbursement of project funds. The improved
performance was the result of the new action plan, which stipulated the competitive hire of a new
Executive Director and the move of the Secretariat of the CPC out of MIFIC. A new CPC
Executive Director was hired after a competitive recruitment process, and managers with
significant private sector experience were hired to lead the cluster and business environment
components. Some of the CPC's major achievements are listed below.

    · The newly created Enterprise Competitiveness Observatory implemented the new
         monitoring and evaluation for enterprise performance.
    · A communications manager was appointed to improve the flow of information between
         the public and private sectors. (See 7.3 below.)
    · The modernization of the Commercial Register in Managua (using digital records and
         systems) had a major impact, decreasing the time and costs involved in registering new
         businesses. This success was replicated with project support in Leon and Chinandega.
    · The cluster work focused on those sectors that had the necessary minimum of
         organization and potential to create jobs and increase exports. All four of the original
         clusters met or exceeded original targets. Annex 1 details the very strong performance of
         the targeted clusters and six others that subsequently joined the project.
    · The CPC and MIFIC played a central role in the CAFTA debate, convincing groups that
         had traditionally preferred a more protectionist stance to support this regional free trade
         agreement.




7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project's logical framework was substantially improved following the mid-term review. New
indicators on exports, certifications and the business climate were adopted and some key existing
indicators were revised in accordance with the main activities of the project (clusters and
business climate reforms). Once they became available in 2004, World Bank Doing Business
indicators were also adopted. The CPC was instrumental in monitoring international
benchmarking exercises (World Economic Forum, Doing Business, Index of Economic Freedom


                                                  12

of the Heritage Foundation, World Investment Report, GRICS, commercial competitiveness in
the US market, sectoral international benchmarking, etc) and convincing the private and public
sectors and civil society about the advantages of Nicaragua's move to join the CAFTA.

Implementation of the revised monitoring and evaluation framework accelerated with the
creation of the Enterprise Competitiveness Observatory. Two learning exercises reviewed
accomplishments of the project. These exercises reviewed both qualitative and quantitative
indicators, and generated an extensive list of lessons learned from project implementation. These
analytical documents became the basis for the design of the follow-on Competitiveness
Enhancement Project (see CPC, Logros y lecciones, 2006, and Cumplimiento de los
compromisos, 2005).



7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The Coordinating Unit for Public Sector Reform and Modernization Program (Unidad de
Coordinación del Programa de Reforma y Modernización del Sector Publico UCRESEP)
handled project accounting and procurement. At the time of project design, UCRESEP was
already providing this support to two other Bank projects and three Bank trust funds.

Project audits were often late. For example, the 2004 audit was presented to the Bank more than
one year after the due date (On June 1, 2006). The 2005 Audit, due by June 30, 2006, was
received on November 8, 2006. For that reason, the project was rated moderately unsatisfactory
for financial management in April 2005. The delays were attributed to documentation problems
within UCRESEP, and a contractual issue that arose between UCRESEP and the audit firm
(KPMG Peat Marwick Nicaragua S.A.). In response to the very long delays, the Bank project
manager refused to provide no objections for more than one month in January 2006. The problem
of late audits persisted, with the audit for 2005, which arrived four months after the deadline. The
final audit for the period January 1 to June 30, 2006 arrived on January 11, 2007.

The Bank conducted procurement post-reviews during each year of project implementation. The
Bank also conducted a special financial management mission to review financial management,
audit and other procedures and to assist the CPC and UCRESEP in improving timely responses to
financial management reports and audits. The April 2005 review found that most of the processes
undertaken by the CPC and UCRESEP were in compliance with Bank's procurement policy
guidelines. The review of May 2006 established that, with one small exception, all contracts
executed had been included in the Procurement Plan.

No other safeguard issues were relevant to this project.



7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

A PHRD grant funded CPC consultants with technical responsibilities during the transition to the
follow-on US$17 million Competitiveness Enhancement Project, which is expected to become
effective by March 2007. The CPC is also implementing a US$40 million IADB infrastructure
project and a 5 million European Union program, both of which include competitiveness



                                                  13

components. Donors to these projects have confirmed that these commitments are due in large
measure to the institutional capacity demonstrated in the implementation of the Bank-supported
Competitiveness LIL.

The CPC has become known as the leader of a "program" rather than a few isolated projects, and
has built strong relationships with several key line ministries. The CPC is the formal leader of the
National Competitiveness Program, coordinating the activities of many donors and public
institutions (MIFIC, Hacienda, MAGFOR, and the Supreme Court) and private sector
organizations (clusters, business associations, and chambers of commerce). It has taken a leading
role in CAFTA and public competitiveness education.

The Bank team suggested that the CPC consider new institutional options to improve its legal
standing and insure long term sustainability and independence. In response, the CPC Board
formed in early 2006 a special commission to identify legal options. This commission reviewed
the alternatives and has begun consultations with legal experts to consider its options.




8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The overall rating of project outcomes is satisfactory. Based on a thorough review of project
documentation and interviews with a wide range of government officials, private sector
representatives, and civil society representatives, the ratings for achievement of objectives,
efficiency and relevance are as follows:

    · Achievement of objectives is rated as satisfactory. As Annex 1 demonstrates, the
         majority of quantitative and qualitative targets were achieved, and institutional
         development impact was outstanding (for the CPC, ProNicaragua, NicaExport, and
         private sector partners such as the seven leading clusters).
    · Relevance is rated as highly satisfactory, given the tight links to the Government's
         agenda, demonstrated effectiveness to improving national competitiveness and the
         business climate, and the leadership role of the private sector.
    · Efficiency is rated as satisfactory. It should be noted that the initial slow pace of
         implementation was overcome during the phase after the midterm review, at which time
         changes in staffing and processes led to increased disbursements and greater efficiency in
         reaching project objectives and carrying out project activities.

The LIL was innovative in its approach to clusters. All sectoral work in Nicaragua had previously
been centralized and "top down" in its orientation. By encouraging the four original clusters to
include SMEs in the activities and planning work, the project helped to push benefits into the
countryside and incorporate a significant number of small and medium producers and processors
into the clusters. This same strategy was applied to the four additional clusters that joined the
project.

Project objectives were satisfactory since they were directly related to the country's
competitiveness at a crucial time (discussions leading up to the country's decision to enter into
CAFTA negotiations). The project's development objective was consistent with the 2002 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which called for programs aimed at small- and medium-scale
producers through a strategy to foster competitiveness in key clusters with high growth potential,



                                                 14

such as tourism, textiles and clothing, and forestry products. The objectives and design have
become the basis for the National Competitiveness Plan and the country's approach to CAFTA.

The cluster activities were also consistent with the Government's 2003 National Development
Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, PND). Policymakers had been influenced by leading thinkers
in private sector development at the time, which maintained that building competitiveness at the
national level required a cluster-level or sector-level approach with joint public-private sector
involvement. The choice of clusters was appropriate, and was based on traditional sectors that
were in a good position to increase exports and increase employment. These sectors were
highlighted in the PND ­ coffee, dairy products, textiles/garments, and tourism ­ benefit from
Nicaragua's comparative advantage of low labor costs, geographical location, etc.

The project was well aligned with the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-I). The PRSC-I
action matrix included activities that were important to the implementation of the LIL. These
activities included: (i) the reorganization of CEI into an export promotion agency; (ii) a program
to reduce administrative barriers; (iii) a plan to follow up on the recommendations of the
Investment Climate Assessment; and (iv) the submission of the Competition Law to the National
Assembly. This type of alignment and coordination allowed for the successful completion of
many of these actions.

The work on legal improvements resulted in more efficient business registries, the Competition
Law, the Tourism Law, the Registry Law, and online CETREX services for export businesses. In
addition, a Free Trade Zone Law was drafted and submitted to the National Assembly. Finally,
the project provided an action plan for the legal and operational reform of National
Technological Institute (Instituto Nacional Tecnológico, INATEC).



8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)



 Component         Objective                 Key Accomplishments          Rating
 Clusters and      Test private-public       Assisted four original       Clusters - Highly
 BDS               partnerships for          clusters (tourism, coffee,   achieved
                   developing consensus      dairy products, and light
                   and introducing           manufacturing) to organize,
                   reform on business        diagnose and resolve         IT-based BDS pilot -
                   environment issues        specific growth constraints. negligibly achieved,
                                             Assisted three additional    BDS activities folded
                   Pilot information         clusters (meat products,     into cluster work.
                   technology-based          wood products, and fish and
                   business development      shellfish) to organize,
                   services (IT-based        diagnose and resolve
                   BDS)                      specific growth constraints.
                                             (See detailed assessment
                                             below; see also key
                                             statistics in Annex 1)
 Business and      Increase private          Commercial registry          Highly achieved
 Investment        sector participation in   modernized, digitally
 Climate           key business              established (time dropped


                                                 15

                     environment policy       from 71 to 39 days)
                     reforms.

                     Promote investment       CETREX put on line
                     as a result of
                     investment climate       Detailed INATEC labor
                     improvements             reform proposed by FIAS

                                              NicaExport trade point
                                              export promotion in place

                                              Competition policy passed
                                              (considered sound by Bank)

                                              US$325 million in FDI
                                              2004-2006 (12,050 jobs
                                              created, 2003-2005; vs.
                                              target of 5000 for project)
 Project             Strengthen the public-   The CPC gained technical        Achieved
 Management          private partnership to   and strategic credibility, as   (See Section 7.5)
 and                 promote national         seen in its central role in the
 Institutional       competitiveness          National Development Plan
 Sustainability                               and in the CAFTA debate.
                                              The CPC gained the support
                                              of an increasing number of
                                              donors.
                                              The CPC increased its
                                              independence from the
                                              Government.
                                              The private sector has taken
                                              the lead in CPC
                                              management and strategic
                                              decision-making.

While attribution in some cases can be difficult to ascertain, the project was directly responsible
for the changes identified in the sectors (clusters) and the legal and regulatory framework on
business and investment climate. Before the project, there were no organized, effective clusters in
the four sectors assisted by the project. Three more sectoral clusters were organized by the
project, and it is likely that these would not have functioned well without direct project support.

Performance in the four original clusters either achieved or exceeded the initial targets.
Accomplishments included the following:

    · Tourism: The project supported the preparation of a strategy for the tourism sector, the
        design and dissemination of a Nicaragua "brand" logo, and specific investments at major
        tourist sites (e.g., signage). Six regional cluster organizations were formed. A Tourism
        Law was drafted and was approved by the Legislative Assembly. Tourist arrivals
        increased 14 percent in 2004.
    · Coffee: The project prepared a cluster strategy, which is in the process of
        implementation. In addition to the national cluster organization, two regional cluster



                                                  16

        organizations were formed. Exports of specialty coffees increased 18 to 20 percent in
        2004-05 compared to the target of 10 percent. One of the most notable results was the
        introduction of the Cup of Excellence quality competition and auction (See Box 2).
    · Dairy Products: The project prepared a cluster strategy and supported the formation of
        four regional cluster organizations. Two more regional clusters are in the process of
        forming. The membership and activities of the dairy business association CANISLAC
        (Cámara Nicaragüense del Sector Lácteo) have increased. Sales by firms that
        participated in cluster initiatives supported by the project have increased by 12 percent
        over 2003-2004 compared to the target of 10 percent. Total dairy product exports grew
        33 percent over 2003-2004 compared to a target of 10 percent. A draft law to promote
        the dairy value chain was prepared and submitted to the Legislative Assembly. The
        cluster also organized the National Congress on the Dairy Sector in February, 2006.
        Finally, the project led to the development of a certificate of origin for traditional (white)
        cheese.
    · Light manufacturing: A cluster strategy was prepared as part of the 2003 National
        Development Plan. The apparel and textile manufacturing association ANITEC
        (Asociación Nicaragüense de la Industria Textil y de Confección) was strengthened and
        its membership increased. A draft Free Zone law was drafted and submitted to the
        Legislative Assembly. Participation in trade fairs led to seven new signed contracts.
        Participation in CAFTA negotiations brought an additional 100 million square meters of
        products under trade preference levels.

By 2006, significant numbers of SMEs were incorporated into several of the clusters. Even in
sectors where economies of scale might cause large producers to dominate, such as shrimp
farming, there was significant participation by SME producers. In the clusters, the SMEs are not
usually the leaders, yet they participate in cluster meetings and activities, and are able to interact
independently with CPC Secretariat staff to request specific assistance.


Box 2 Cup of Excellence
 The project provided the coffee cluster with high quality technical assistance to improve the
 acceptability of its product in highly competitive international markets. The Cup of Excellence is
 exactly the kind of activity that ensures higher-value exports and recognition in international
 markets, ultimately creating jobs, increasing exports, and developing backward linkages to
 producers in rural areas.

 A successful initiative implemented by the Coffee Cluster was the Nicaragua Cup of Excellence
 (Taza de la Excelencia) competition, designed to increase sales of specialized coffees in
 international markets. Over a four-year period, about 1,500 coffee producers have participated
 in the competition (of a total of 22,000 coffee producers in the country, 4,000 of whom have
 farms above 1200 meters). As a result of this initiative, the number of participating coffee
 producers in the electronic auction increased from 14 in 2003 to 37 in 2004. In 2003, the
 average auction price for Nicaraguan entrants was $2.54 per pound, significantly higher than the
 average price in international markets. According to a 2005 survey, 72 percent of international
 coffee buyers interviewed indicated that their impression of Nicaraguan coffee had improved
 because of the Cup of Excellence, and many of them increased their purchases as a result. The
 production share of specialized coffee rose from 2 percent in 2002 to 12 to 15 percent in 2004.
 Taste test experts have been trained in quantitative methods, and this methodology has been
 standardized nationwide. The private sector assumed 67 percent of the cost of organizing the
 annual competition. This means that the initiative brings value and is quite sustainable.




                                                  17

Other important achievements demonstrate the Project Development Objectives' relevance in the
following areas: (i) the institutional sustainability of the CPC; (ii) competition policy; (iii)
investment promotion; (iv) commercial registry and commercial code; (v) export promotion; (vi)
administrative simplification; and (vii). technical training and education.
Institutional Sustainability of the CPC. The CPC has dramatically changed its organizational
structure from a department within MIFIC to an independent, technical and strategic public-
private institution. With urging from the World Bank team, the CPC Board is considering further
transforming the institution into a public-private foundation or other autonomous arrangement.

The Technical Secretariat of the CPC steadily improved its performance and achieved important
results after the mid-term review. Moreover, it has gained the confidence of the public and
private sectors, through donor dialogue, a number of workshops on sectoral and national
competitiveness issues and through its work on the National Development Plan's competitiveness
strategy.

Competition policy: Technical assistance provided by the project led to a technically strong draft
Competition Law, passed by the Legislative Assembly in October 2006. The law creates an
independent competition agency, outside of MIFIC, and benefits the public and private sectors
because it meets one of the requirements of CAFTA. This achievement is a direct result of
project support to staff training in the Department on Competition and Market Transparency
within MIFIC. The project also provided staff training in implementing the law.

Investment promotion: MIGA provided technical assistance and training to ProNicaragua staff.
ProNicaragua's manager received two months of training from MIGA in Washington, covering
all aspects of investment promotion. ProNicaragua quickly accelerated its efforts to attract
foreign direct investments (FDI): The number of presentations to prospective investors, the
number of visits to Nicaragua, and the number of investment missions all exceeded the targets set
in the logical framework. New FDI flows amounted to $79.9 million in 2004 and $45.5 million in
2005, reportedly creating 6,550 and 5,500 jobs in 2004 and 2005 respectively. In 2006,
Nicaragua attracted an estimated $200 million in FDI, with ProNicaragua playing a leading role
(see BusinessWeek, Latin America. November 9, 2006).

In addition, ProNicaragua's performance as an investment promotion agency has received
international recognition. In MIGA's 2006 investment promotion agency benchmarking study,
ProNicaragua won honors for its investor servicing and internet site - one of only five (out of 100
IPAs) developing country investment promotion agencies that won honors for these services (see
MIGA, "Investment Promotion Agency Performance Review 2006: Investor Information
Services", June 2006).

Commercial Registry: The main project achievement in this area is the digitization of all
Commercial Registry records in Managua. This has been an important and visible activity, and is
being replicated in other departments. In addition, an automated system for the commercial
registry resulted in a reduction in the time necessary to start a business from 71 to 39 days (Table
2). A draft law to reform the commercial registry was prepared and submitted to the National
Assembly. Even without the passage of the law, impressive administrative improvements have
taken place.

Export promotion: The project provided technical assistance and training to NicaExport in Trade
Point methodology, which helps potential exporters identify markets and develop an exporting
plan. Based on this improved capacity, NicaExport moved beyond project resources and secured
funding from the Dutch Government and the private sector.

Administrative simplification: In addition to the automation of the commercial registry, the
project made progress in simplifying other administrative procedures. For example, CETREX)



                                                 18

made possible online permits and payments for exporters. In addition, Customs rationalized staff
and resources.

According to the benchmarks used by the World Bank's Doing Business, over the past three
years, Nicaragua has improved significantly in several areas of competitiveness. Table 5 below
reveals that Nicaragua compares favorably against regional averages and those of the OECD in a
few areas. Many of these areas have improved thanks, in part, to project activities. Investments in
registries, legal and regulatory changes, and work with export and import authorities to
streamline processes also have resulted in important gains. The data in Table 5 do not show the
gains in business registration at the municipal level, which was undertaken by the project jointly
with the IFC.

Technical education and training: The private sector, paying for the services through a payroll
deduction tax, expressed its dissatisfaction with quality and usefulness of INATEC training. The
private sector considered INATEC's approach to be unresponsive and unable to offer the type of
training that would make workers more productive and firms more competitive.

Project funds co-financed a FIAS study of the public system of technical education and training
(see FIAS, Reform of Labor Skills, January 2005). The study recommended a reform of the
public training system that would separate the governance and planning of training from the
provision of training, reducing INATEC's dominant position in vocational training. It
recommended revising the training law to provide the legal basis for the division of INATEC's
responsibilities, which involved changes in the use of the training levy, and arrangements for
accreditation, standards, and skill certification. These recommendations reflected best practices
from the region, helping state training centers move to the second tier or to a competitive position
in the retail market (see de Ferranti et. al., Closing the Gap, 2003). The FIAS recommendations
were controversial, however, and, since they challenged INATEC's dominant position and since
the benefits of the reforms were long term, and the costs short term, it was difficult to reach
consensus.

    Table 4 Doing Business Indicators, Nicaragua 2004-2006

                                                                             LAC       OECD
                                                 2004    2005     2006       2006        2006
    Starting a Business
    Procedures (no.)                                 9        8        6         10.2       6.2
    Time (days)                                     45      42       39          73.3     16.6
    Cost (% inc. per cap.)                       170.1    139.1   131.6          48.1       5.3

    Dealing with licenses
    Procedures (no.)                                        12       12          15.4       14
    Time (days)                                            192     192          198.7    149.5
    Cost (% inc. per cap.)                               1243.8 1002.2          246.2       72


    Employing workers
    Difficulty of hiring index a/                 22.0     11.0    11.0          34.0     27.0

    Registering property
    Procedures (no.)                                 7        7        8          6.6       4.7
    Time (days)                                     65      65     124           77.4     31.8



                                                  19

    Cost (% of property value)                     6.5       6.5      3.5             6     4.3

    Trading across borders
    Documents for export (no.)                                 6        5           7.3     4.8
    Time for export (days)                                   38        36         22.2     10.5
    Cost to export (US$ per container)                              1,020        1,068      811
    Documents for import (no.)                                 7        5           9.5     5.9
    Time for import (days)                                             38         27.9     12.2
    Cost to import (US$ per container)                              1,020        1,226      883


    Closing a business
    Time (years)                                   2.2       2.0      2.2           2.6     1.4
    Cost (% of estate)                             8.0     14.5      14.5         13.6      7.1
    Recovery rate (cents on one dollar)           38.1     33.8      34.3         25.7     74.0
    a/ Higher value = more rigid
    Source: Doing Business 2005, 2006, 2007. World Bank, Washington DC

To increase the visibility of the need for reform, the Bank linked the INATEC reform proposal to
the PRSC-I, which resulted in a letter of general acceptance from the Director of INATEC.
However, implementation lagged, due to the need to reform the law that originally established
INATEC.



8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The overall rating for efficiency is satisfactory. During the first phase, efficiency was modest and
disbursements were low, due to delays in contracting consultants and the change in government
in early 2002. However, the impressive transformation of ProNicaragua and NicaExport
outweighed efficiency problems in some of the minor activities during the initial stage.

With the strategic and operational changes made at the midterm review, efficiency improved
dramatically, as did staff stability and disbursements. The creation of the CPC as a joint public-
private institution raised project efficiency significantly. The administrative costs of the Project
Management Unit within the CPC Secretariat were 16 percent of total project costs, about the
same as the original projection (15 percent). However, since several key CPC Secretariat staff
provided high quality technical assistance (especially in the cases of clusters and business climate
work), the true administrative costs of the CPC Secretariat were lower. This is based on results,
but also on the expanded direct activist TA role the CPC experts played in developing action
plans and monitoring the clusters in frequent meetings, field visits.




8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                  20

The Overall Outcome Rating is satisfactory. This is due to the impressive results in cluster
development, business climate. Project objectives were substantially relevant, and were achieved
in a largely satisfactory manner. High achievements were made in piloting mechanisms for better
public-private dialogue, and in piloting policy and institutional reforms to improve
competitiveness. The objective of promoting well-functioning and inclusive business clusters was
substantially achieved. Despite enormous strides in raising the profile and competencies of the
CPC, ensuring its sustainability was modestly achieved. Finally, the objective of piloting
sustainable IT-based BDS evolved into a cross-cutting element of the cluster work.

With this in mind, the following ratings for project components are:

 Component / Efficiency                            Rating
 Component 1:                                      Satisfactory
     Clusters                                          Highly satisfactory
     IT-based and other BDS                            Marginally satisfactory
 Component 2 Business Climate                      Highly satisfactory
 Component 3 Institution Building                  Satisfactory



8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project had a positive impact on social development, especially in terms of decentralization
of economic activities (with the inclusion of SMEs in the clusters and the streamlining of
municipal registration processes). ProNicaragua's ability to generate increased foreign direct
investment and the cluster activities also helped to create thousands of new jobs, an important
contribution to poverty alleviation in Nicaragua.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

See Section 8.2, particularly Objectives 1, 4, and 6.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None.


8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The risk to the development outcome of the project is low. Financial support of diverse projects


                                                21

by the IADB, the European Union, COSUDE, UNIDO, DFID and the Government will enhance
the CPC's competitiveness agenda. Further, the opportunities represented by CAFTA will help to
ensure the private sector's continued support of the competitiveness agenda

Two issues remain unresolved: The CPC's legal standing and INATEC's monopoly of the
vocational training market. The CPC Board has begun exploring alternatives to the presidential
decree, which created the CPC, to strengthen the CPC's legal standing. The Board is expected to
resolve this issue in due course. However, INATEC's continued reluctance to move from a
monopoly to a competitive training market remains problematic. In a discussion with INATEC's
Director in early 2006, he explained that without legal changes to the INATEC charter it would
not be possible to reform the institution's approach to training. At the same time, the Director
explained that 75 percent of INATEC activities were financed by private firms, so that financial
dependence on the Government was not a big obstacle to change. In discussions in mid-2006, the
Director expressed interest in adopting several of the recommended reforms, once legal issues are
resolved.

Recently interviewed private sector representatives are confident that the needs and interests of
the business community and the general rule of law in the country will be respected under the in-
coming administration. President-elect Ortega and the Sandinista party support the CAFTA and
have promised to support the private sector as a means of creating jobs on a massive scale.

Finally, the Bank's US$17 million credit (Enhanced Competitiveness) approved by the Board on
August 24, 2006 ensures that the CPC will continue to play a catalytic role in competitiveness
issues, especially as the benefits, costs and effects of CAFTA come to light over the next few
years.




10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Quality at entry was moderately satisfactory. This was one of the Bank's first competitiveness
projects and one of the first in the region. For this LIL, quality at entry can be measured by how
well the project: (i) tests private-public partnerships for developing consensus on business
environment issues, (ii) pilots information technology-based business development services (IT-
based BDS), and (iii) seeks effective ways of increasing private sector participation in key
business environment policy reforms. From this perspective, the LIL did, in fact, establish the
conditions necessary for the testing and piloting of new activities in Nicaragua, and the ability for
the public and private sectors to collaborate closely on the competitiveness agenda.

Given the project's size, the original logical framework was ambitious. While most of the
components and activities were well-designed, there was a mismatch between the high
technology BDS component and the needs and ability of the target group in Masaya. Another
difficulty was that there were very few Bank or other donor competitiveness projects in Latin
America from which to draw early lessons and reflect them in the project design.




                                                 22

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall quality of Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. The slow implementation of the
project during the initial stage was due to (i) the innovative nature of the project activities, (ii) the
lack of examples in the region upon which to draw, (iii) the lack of experience of the Government
counterparts with Bank requirements, and (iv) frequent changes in the composition of both
counterpart staff and the Bank project team. Equally important was the change in Government in
early 2002, which delayed early implementation due to significant changes in relevant ministries.

Two particularly successful initiatives of the Bank project team during the first phase were the
inclusion of MIGA and FIAS, each of which provided technical expertise, supervision and best
practice training to national counterparts. MIGA's performance was highly satisfactory; and it is
clear that its hands-on technical assistance and training made a big difference to ProNicaragua.
FIAS also added significantly to the quality of overall Bank support. However, the quality of
early supervision of the project appears to have been mixed largely because supervision reports
tended to treat some critical issues lightly. That said, the Bank team made important contributions
to the implementation of the project by identifying and arranging key sources of technical
assistance.

After the midterm review restructured the Project, supervision improved to a highly satisfactory
rating. The midterm review led to a series of requirements from the Bank. These contributed
directly to a restructuring of the key Government institutions, a stronger counterpart commitment
(as seen by counterpart funding at a time of tight fiscal space), better technical capacity of
counterparts, access to senior Government officials, and improved internal systems (procurement,
financial management). The new task manager and co-task team leader had a clear vision of the
project and were proactive in seeking solutions to problems. Together with new management in
the implementing agency, their efforts enabled the project to achieve all of its remaining
objectives during the last two years. The CPC and the Bank used the opportunity of the two-year
extension to gather lessons learned to contribute to the design of the follow-on Enhanced
Competitiveness Project (a US$17 million investment loan). With collaboration of the new CPC
management team and new technicians, the Bank supervision team turned around what was a
challenging project.

        Table 5 Bank supervision missions, 2001-2006
          ISR/PSR             Date               Development            Implementation
                                              Objective Rating          Progress Rating
          1           June 29, 2001                   S                        S
          2           Nov. 25, 2001                   S                        S
          3           May 31, 2002                    S                        S
          4           Dec. 2, 2002                    S                        S
          5           June 4, 2003                    S                        U
          6           Dec. 8, 2003                    S                        U
          7           May 26, 2004                    S                        S
          8           Nov. 30, 2004                   S                        S
          9           April 24, 2005                  S                        S
          10          Nov. 15, 2005                   S                        S
          11          June 1, 2006                    S                        S
          12          June 29, 2006                   S                        S




                                                  23

Other considerations in the satisfactory rating are the high level of disbursement after the midterm
review, the achievement of several core objectives (See Annex 1), and the institutional capacity
built in the CPC, ProNicaragua, CETREX, and NicaExport.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The moderately satisfactory rating for quality at
entry is outweighed by the satisfactory rating for project implementation, thanks to the
satisfactory outcome rating. The Bank made an extraordinary effort during and after the mid-term
review to re-focus the project, and managed to overcome the initial deficiencies in project design.
The Bank team helped to put the CPC on a sound footing with a clear strategy and achieved much
more than was envisaged in the original project design. Results even exceeded the midterm
evaluation targets (for example, the successful export promotion and administrative simplification
activities). The Bank provided excellent technical expertise on a wide-ranging set of topics,
covered by the project. The supervision was often intense, with regular on-site missions and an
ongoing series of teleconferences, as well as with a local Bank PSD Specialist acting as a
technical advisor and liaison.

Finally, as the lead donor in the area of competitiveness, the Bank was responsible for
coordination with other donors active in the field. Regular meetings by Bank project team
members and a private sector development expert seconded by DFID allowed the Bank to fulfill
this role and avoid duplication among donors. The PRSC-1 donor coordination groups ("mesas")
were also instrumental in improving coordination among the donors (COSUDE, DFID, USAID,
IADB, EU, GTZ and the Bank).




10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance was satisfactory. This level of performance covers both the
Government's overall approach to competitiveness and the specific contributions made to the
project. The competitiveness agenda was developed through a participatory process led by the
CPC and MIFIC, and was subsequently highlighted in the National Development Plan. It
included a decentralized approach and broad based participation of clusters, municipalities, and
other private sector groups and civil society. The prevailing opinion expressed during the ICR
preparation mission was that important institutional relationships had been developed between the
CPC, key Government ministries (MIFIC, MAGFOR, MTI, SETEC, MARENA and MHCP) and
with leading donors. This was an improvement over previous government practices, where
ministries such as Agriculture and MIFIC tended to work in isolation or compete in areas related
to competitiveness.

The Government also agreed with project proposals to convert the MIFIC Program for
Competitiveness into a freestanding public-private institution with private sector leadership. Also,
the government approved the plan to create independent agencies for export promotion
(NicaExport) and investment promotion (ProNicaragua). As part of the PRSC-1 with the Bank,
the government included a long list of challenging regulatory and legal framework changes that



                                                 24

improved the investment climate. In addition, the government participated in a series of regional
seminars and exchanges on competitiveness issues in Central America.

During project implementation, the country was classified as a Highly Indebted Country (HIPC),
which required careful budget management and limited the amount of budget deficit spending.
However, during this time of tight budget constraints, the Government provided funding through
the national budget (including approximately US$500,000 in counterpart funds and budgetary
space for use of project funds). The Government assumed all fiduciary responsibilities through
UCRESEP (as a unit in the office of the Vice Presidency). Moreover, UCRESEP also played a
role in project management. UCRESEP was in charge of all fiduciary responsibilities, including
procurement, disbursement, special account management, audit coordination, project
documentation, and other related tasks.

During the life of the project, Bank experts expressed satisfaction with UCRESEP's capacity in
financial management and procurement. However, there were problems in two areas: (i) financial
management recordkeeping for the special account was found not to be complete during a review
in 2005; and (ii) audits have been submitted to the Bank late on several occasions. For example,
the annual audit for fiscal year 2004 (July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005) arrived five months past the
deadline. The audit for fiscal year 2006 (the final project audit) was due on December 31, 2006,
and UCRESEP provided the audit on January 11, a delay of only two weeks after the deadline.



(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency            Performance

                  The overall performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory.
                  Early implementation was slow, due to staffing delays, bureaucratic processes
                  within MIFIC, and a change in government that affected budget allocation.

Ministry of       Disbursements lagged initially as well. However, project management

Economy MIFIC     improved considerably, especially after the selection of a new executive
                  director in early 2004. Important developments included the hiring of cluster
                  managers, a procurement specialist, a financial management expert, a
                  communications manager, and the creation of the Enterprise Competitiveness
                  Observatory to monitor results (all supported by the project).
                  The CPC became the leader in the field of competitiveness during the life of
                  the project, recognized as a key player by the government, the private sector,
                  civil society and donors. It has taken the lead in international events, hosting
Pres. Commissionseveral   and participating in others throughout Central America. By managing

Competitiveness   project activities transparently and collaboratively, it has built credibility that
                  enabled the CPC to take a leading role in promoting CAFTA. Since the
                  establishment of the CPC as project executing agency in early 2004, its role in
                  preparing terms of reference, basic procurement documents, reports,
                  presentations, and other outputs has been very strong.




                                                25

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory based on the discussion presented in Section
10 above. The Bank Board recently acknowledged the important contributions of the Government
and specifically the CPC, when it approved the follow-up Enhanced Competitiveness Project
(including a total investment of US$17 million).

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Some of the key lessons learned during project implementation were:

    · Cluster organizations can be an effective mechanism to improve public-private dialogue
        and bring private sector concerns to bear on public policy. The "intangible" benefits of
        the cluster approach are important: greater awareness of constraints to private sector
        development, better "associativity" (linkages), more confidence and cooperation among
        private and public stakeholders, and changes in business attitudes. At the same time,
        concerns raised by the private sector should represent the broad interests of the sector
        rather than specific benefits to individual firms.
    · The competitiveness agenda needs high-level political support and coordination across
        the many public sector agencies involved.
    · Initiatives taken by cluster organizations should be focused, guided by a conceptual
        framework, and proactive rather than reactive. Cluster activities should be integrated
        with efforts to improve the investment climate. Particularly with a limited budget, there
        is a risk of dispersion of effort across many small initiatives, with the end result of low
        impact.
    · Reforms in the policy and institutional environment require engagement with the
        legislative branch early in the process, not just at the end of the process when a draft bill
        is presented.
    · Especially in a LIL, a results-oriented M&E system is critical. The system should be
        designed to allow pilot activities to be evaluated quickly, so that re-design, re-testing,
        and scaling up can occur. M&E systems for investment climate reform projects should
        include indicators of institutional capacity and efficiency, as well as indicators of the
        implementation (not just adoption) of policy and regulatory reforms.




12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The following commentary is taken from the executive summary of a project evaluation-
Evaluación Interna del Proyecto de Competitividad (LIL)-prepared by the CPC with inputs
from MIFIC, dated June 15, 2006.

The Presidential Competitiveness Commission is at a crossroads. As the new second phase of the
Competitiveness Program begins, the country is faced with the challenge of competing in a new
economic framework with the arrival of CAFTA. For the Commission, this progression offers an



                                                 26

unlimited set of opportunities, because in the next four years it will be important for public and
private sectors to work more aggressively on projects and programs that improve the
competitiveness of the country. At the same time, along with the CAFTA challenges, the country
is going through a political transformation.

One of the most important challenges is to reach the level of institutional sustainability needed to
look beyond government periods and become one of the most important strategies of the country.
Both the Board of Directors and the management team of the Commission agreed that one of the
most urgent tasks to overcome any operational uncertainty is to increase the public-private
consensus, and to increase the support the Commission provides through more alliances with the
productive sector. This approach fits our function of improving the competitiveness of the
country.

To say that this is a challenging task is to not fully understand the historic evolution of the
Commission. There has been a succession of changes in staff, at both the level of the
management and technical staff of the project, and within Government counterparts and in the
World Bank. To date, there have been seven Ministers of Economy, six different World Bank
managers, five Project Coordinators and/or Executive Secretaries (each trying to put their own
seal on the work), and three changes in cluster coordinator, and two in the coordination of
business climate work. This has led at times to a low level of execution of important project
components. Undoubtedly, with so many changes in leadership, the damage to the performance
has been great, creating wide-ranging expectations without clarity about the achievements and
impact of the work on the country's competitiveness.

Although it is true that until recently ­ through mid-2004 ­ the work of the new Commission was
not consistent, the advances since that date in terms of institutional strengthening and operational
execution have made a huge leap in both quantitative and qualitative terms. Among the most
impressive changes is the change in the Board of Directors of the Commission, which has
adopted a private sector face, with more private sector than public sector members. This private
sector leadership has translated into more effective participation by the Board in strategic
decisions of the Commission, with the Board helping to clarify strategic directions such as future
investments and setting targets and realistic expectations.

For greater efficiency, the Executive Secretariat has become a team of experienced executives
with a complementary range of specialties. Using a small budget, this team increased the pace of
project activity execution and provided direct assistance to various dynamic clusters, including
cacao, wood-furniture, fishculture, and plantain. These interventions had a direct impact in terms
of an increased volume and value of exports of these products by the country.

There have also been important advances in the business climate, as measured by international
benchmarks. This year, after months of preparation, very important business processes were
simplified in practice. These changes put Nicaragua in a more competitive position compared to
neighboring Latin American economies. On the other hand, to maximize the monitoring of
results of various projects and to have more detailed information on the impact of activities on
clients, the Commission transformed the monitoring and evaluation team into a Competitiveness
Observatory. Its mission is to evaluate competitiveness of the national economy, and also to
provide a valuable ongoing monitoring tool to compare the performance of competitors in
international markets. It will also identify demand opportunities for firms to provide supplies to
other markets.

Even more important is the Commission's ability to diversify its sources of financing. In the past
eighteen months alone, the Commission has obtained more funding than during the initial period.
In addition to the second phase of support from the World Bank, the Commission has been
contracted by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for a program to support the


                                                 27

implementation of the National Development Plan, and a program financed by the European
Union (EU) to improve exports to the EU. These two programs are the first to provide concrete
support for the National Development Plan of the Government. Both respond to challenges faced
by national firms in light of requirements of CAFTA and the EU.


(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               28

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the overall Project Development
Objective (PDO) of the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was to (i) test
private-public partnerships for developing consensus on business environment issues, (ii) pilot
information technology-based business development services (BDS), and (iii) seek effective ways
of increasing private sector participation in key business environment policy reforms.

This was one of the first LILs in Latin America and in the Bank's portfolio. As a LIL, the project
specified testing and learning objectives. The project intended to test the cluster methodology as
well as private sector participation in policy reform. Linkages among project components were to
be an integral part of the project, so that learning in one cluster or policy area would feed into the
process of the others. An important goal of the LIL was to replicate successful learning
experiences on cross-cluster business environment policy issues, and adjust and replicate the pilot
IT-based BDS. As with all LILs, there was flexibility in terms of supporting those pilots and tests
that showed promise and shifting funds from others that did not demonstrate significant impact or
support from the private and public sectors.

The improved competitiveness of the country was to be achieved by three activities covering the
firm level, the business environment, and the sustainability of institutional arrangements. At the
firm level, the project would promote well-functioning and inclusive business clusters and pilot
service and delivery innovation of sustainable information technology-based (IT) business
developing services (BDS) to micro and small businesses (MSBs). These clusters were supposed
to go far beyond existing arrangements, becoming geographic concentrations of businesses and
organizations in related industries, including competitors, producers, buyers, suppliers of
specialized services, financial institutions, specialized universities, research centers, and
policymakers. The pilot clusters were intended to be fully organized after three years, with three
initiatives to increase sector productivity per cluster. In addition, IT-based BDS for MSBs were to
be piloted in Masaya (a town 10 miles south of Managua), resulting in coverage between 30 and
40 percent of all MSBs in two municipalities. At the same time, private sector training providers
increased by 30 percent. (See Annex 1 for achievements for all project activities.)

The second activity was focused on improvements in the business environment, including pilot
reforms to establish domestic competition policies, as well as the institutions and administrative
procedures needed to promote private sector in-firm training, foreign investment promotion and
an improved commercial registry. This was to be measured in terms of increased sustained
private participation in policy-making, and improvements in policies for domestic competition
and foreign direct investment (FDI) promotion.

Finally, the project was intended to ensure the sustainability of the National Competitiveness
Program (NCP) to facilitate private-public policy dialogue and to assist in implementing sector
and policy reforms. The PROCOMPE management unit was to have the capability to (i) facilitate
effectively public-private collaboration on competitiveness policy issues, (ii) adjust and replicate
a business development center (BDC) model after the pilot, and (iii) monitor and evaluate
effectively private-public reform activities.




                                                  29

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The project development objectives were not formally revised.

The Bank mission team that carried out the mid-term evaluation proposed a restructuring of the
logical framework, changes in the project activities and performance indicators, a reallocation of
funds, and one change in the project components (See Section 6.6). The new logical framework
served as the basis for the project's plan of activities from 2004 through project completion in
June 2006.

The mid-term evaluation led to an adjustment of project activities; however the changes were not
significant and were, therefore, not codified in a formal amendment to the Credit Agreement. No
new activities were added, and no new institutions joined in the implementation of the project.
The main change was a redistribution of funds to support BDS and other activities through cluster
work. In addition, no further investments were made in IT-based BDS activities. In addition, the
targets in the original logical framework were more clearly defined and quantified.

An October 2003 amendment to the Credit Agreement reallocated the budget among expenditure
categories (increasing the amount for consultancies and reducing the amount for goods), and
increased the number of goods that could be purchased under national shopping procedures. A
second amendment, approved by senior Bank management in April 2004: (i) adjusted the names
of project institutions to reflect the evolution of the CPC, NicaExport and ProNicaragua; (ii)
modified certain cost categories; and (iii) modified the definition and scope of the BDS
component (removing the IT-based element and integrating BDS into the cluster component). In
addition, the Government and the Bank agreed upon a new action plan to accelerate
implementation. When all six elements of the action plan were completed in January 2004, the
rating on the project's implementation performance was raised to satisfactory. This cleared the
way for a one-year extension of the closing date to June 30, 2005.

Indicators were revised as follows:
(i) Target growth rates were set for sectors supported by the project (tourism, coffee, dairy
products, and light manufacturing (mainly textiles)), rather than for the economy as a whole; and
(ii) Targets and specific actions in four specific areas of the business environment were specified
(domestic competition policy, foreign investment and export promotion, commercial registries,
and the public sector technical education and training system).

Annex 1 shows the original and revised logical frameworks, and a mapping of the original and
revised performance indicators.



(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                        Original Target          Formally          Actual Value

  Indicator       Baseline Value          Values (from                             Achieved at
                                            approval          Revised Target       Completion or
                                           documents)             Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Increase the competitiveness of firms through effective public-private
               collaboration and the development of clusters.
Value          Two small clusters     The capacity of pilot Develop four        Seven clusters
(quantitative dominated by large      clusters for self-     clusters with      formed and fully
or             producers.             organization fully     capacity for self- functional.



                                                  30

Qualitative)                         achieved after three   organization.
                                     years.
Date
achieved      06/29/2001             06/30/2006              06/30/2003       06/30/2006

Comments      Target over-achieved with seven clusters with SME participation, strong
(incl. %      employment, sales and export growth. Clusters are wood, manufacturing,
achievement) fishculture, coffee, tourism and meat.

Indicator 2 : Reforms in the business environment: administrative simplification, FDI
              promotion, export promotion, competition policy and Commercial Register reform.
              A separate
              investment                                                      Freestanding
              promotion agency       Investment Promotion                     professionally

Value         does not exist; Lack Agency sustainable; Specific               staffed investment

(quantitative of consistent efforts efforts to simplify     quantitative      promotion agency

or            to reduce registration business and customs targets added       established. $200

Qualitative)  and customs            registration           (see IO indicator million generated in
              procedures; CEI        undertaken; CEI        1 below).         investment in 2006,
              lacks a strategy and restructured;                              12,050 jobs in 2004-
              data management                                                 05.
              capabilities;
Date
achieved      06/29/2001             06/30/2001              06/30/2003       06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Over-achieved (see quantitative figures under IO indicator 1 below); MIGA cited

achievement)  ProNicaragua as one of top ten agencies in the world.

Indicator 3 : A sustainable Presidential Competitiveness Commission established and in charge
              of policy and private-public dialogue.

                                                             Target to        CPC led by private
              PIU established with                                            sector, with
Value         a Project              PIU has the staff and remove CPC         participation of six
(quantitative Coordinator, Cluster   resources to facilitate from Ministry of key Government
or            Official and an        an effective policy     Economy and      ministries (including
Qualitative) Assistant to the        dialogue in the area ofgive private      Economy,
              Coordinator.           competitiveness.        sector a leading
                                                             role.            Agriculture, and
                                                                              Environment).
Date
achieved      06/29/2001             06/30/2001              06/30/2003       06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Achieved.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                     Original Target                              Actual Value

  Indicator      Baseline Value        Values (from        Formally Revised        Achieved at
                                         approval           Target Values        Completion or
                                        documents)                                Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increase direct jobs created by new FDI as a result of investment promotion



                                                31

              activities

                                                       Quantitative targets221 presentations to
                                                                           investors; 12,050
Value                                                  added (100          jobs; FDI of
(quantitative 0 new jobs created Promote FDI           presentations; 5000 US$125.5 million
or            by investment       through              jobs; FDI of US$51  by Dec 2005; FDI
Qualitative)  promotion agency. ProNicaragua.          million; FDI-
                                                       generated exports ofexports of US$700

                                                       US$27 million.      million by end
                                                                           2004.
Date
achieved      06/29/2001          06/30/2001           06/30/2003          06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Over-achieved substantially.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Time and cost of business registration reduced.
              Automated business
              registration in     Achieve reductions
Value         Managua for a       procedures, time                         Automated system
(quantitative limited liability   and cost of          Reduce number of    in place; reduction
or            company involves    business             days by 40 percent. in number of days
Qualitative)  12 procedures, takes
              71 days and costs   registration across                      by 48 percent.

              337.8% of GNI per   different regions.

              capita.
Date
achieved      06/29/2001          06/29/2001           06/30/2003          06/30/2006

Comments      Over-achieved. Highlighted by Doing Business 2007: Business Registration

(incl. %      procedures dropped by 50 percent; time dropped by 48 percent and cost dropped

achievement)  by 62 percent. Nicaragua ranked 59 in the world (of 175 countries) by Doing
              Business in 2006.




                                               32

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                 Board      ISR Ratings at   Amount
 Restructuring Approved     Restructuring  Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring
    Date(s)      PDO                      Restructuring in & Key Changes Made
                Change       DO       IP      USD M
                                                          Midterm review found that
                                                          institutional changes were
                                                          required (establishment of
10/27/2003    N                S       U             1.95 CPC, ProNicaragua and
                                                          NicaExport), more specific
                                                          targets and indicators were
                                                          necessary.




                                       33

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                        Appraisal
            Components                Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                           M)          Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

CLUSTER PROGRAM                                 1.30                2.73        210.00
IT-BASED BUSINESS
DEVELOPEMENT CENTER                             1.20                0.44         36.67

PILOT TRAINING POLICY                           0.18                0.07         38.89
INNOVATIVE APPROACH TO
DOMESTIC COMPETITION                            0.50                0.36         72.00

NEW INVESTMENT PROMOTION
ACTIVITIES                                      0.55                0.62        112.73

COMMERIAL REGISTRY REFORM                       0.50                0.41         82.00
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR NCP
PROJECT UNIT                                    0.77                0.86        111.69

                 Total Baseline Cost            5.00                5.49
Physical Contingencies                          0.00
Price Contingencies                             0.00
                 Total Project Costs            5.00
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                0.00          0.00
          Total Financing Required              5.00                5.49




(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal   Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds             Type of                               Percentage of
                                 Cofinancing    Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                                (USD M)           M)        Appraisal

 Borrower                                             0.65            0.50       76.92
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                           5.00            5.49      109.80
ASSOCIATION
 FOREIGN PRIVATE
COMMERCIAL SOURCES                                    0.20            0.00
(UNIDENTIFIED)




                                           34

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            35

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Table A4.1 shows actual project costs by component and sub-component. The main difference
between actual costs and appraisal estimates was the share of costs going to the cluster
component and the BDS component. The BDS component was restructured after the Mid-Term
Review to eliminate the BDC in Masaya, and instead deliver BDS as part of cluster activities. In
addition, total project costs exceeded appraisal estimates by approximately 10 percent due to the
depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the SDR.

The following were the principal outputs by component:

Component 1:         Develop well-functioning and inclusive business clusters and pilot
sustainable IT-based BDS

(a) Cluster Development

        In all of the four clusters initially targeted, the project supported marketing, institutional
strengthening of the cluster (recruitment, policies and strategies, and projects). All of the clusters
prepared national-level strategies that were incorporated into the National Development Plan
2003. In tourism, light manufacturing, and dairy products, work also concentrated on drafting
laws. In light manufacturing, indicators were established to promote the formalization of
commercial contracts.

Tourism:

    · a "country trademark" was designed and disseminated.
    · signage was constructed in important tourism sites.
    · prepared a document that serviced as the base for the General Tourism Law was prepared
        and was passed by the National Assembly.
    · lobbied for maintaining fiscal incentives in the tourism industry.
    · studied problems encountered by tourists at border crossings, monitoring delays and
        service quality.
    · promoted commercial alliances between tourism companies in Nicaragua with Costa
        Rica.
    · participated in trade fairs in the U.S.
    · prepared educational material on tourism for distribution in schools.
    · regional clusters were created in Leon, Matagalpa, Granada, and Rivas.

Light Manufacturing:

    · strengthening of the textiles and apparel chamber ANITEC.
    · studies related to fiscal and labor topics, and commercial negotiations for CAFTA.
    · negotiation of additional textile import quotas under the Free Trade Agreement.
    · drafted amendments to the Free Zone law, extending free zone benefits to supplier firms
        (indirect exporters).
    · promoted the implementation of the international certification system WRAP in maquila
        industries.
    · promoted trade and investment missions to Nicaragua by apparel companies in the U.S.
    · established alliance with the American Apparel Producers' Network, in collaboration
        with ProNicaragua.




                                                  36

Dairy Products:

   · created producers' associations (CANISLAC, Alianza Amerrisque and Cenilac.
   · a regional cluster was created in four municipalities in Matagalpa.
   · a draft law was prepared for the production, industrialization, and commercialization of
       dairy products.
   · lobbied for a rural electrification project in 2005 that extended service 377 kms.
   · assisted in the elaboration of a quality management manual for five dairy firms; in the
       drafting of technical norms for white cheese; in a quality workshop; and in the planning
       of a processing plant in Chontales.

Coffee:

   · a cluster strategy was prepared.
   · institutional strengthening of the coffee associations ACEN and CONACAFE.
   · participation in the Cup of Excellence coffee quality contest, co-funded by the private
       sector.
   · trade missions and promotional events in Europe, U.S., and Scandinavia.
   · a regional cluster was established in Matagalpa.
   · organized conferences including "First Conference on Sustainable Coffee in Nicaragua",
       RAMACAFE coffee conferences 2003-05.
   · developed proposals for restructuring and diversification of coffee sector in Nicaragua.
   · Cup of Excellence competition to increase international sales of specialized coffees (See
       Section 8.2).

Cocoa:

   · A National Program for Cocoa Productivity and Quality Improvement was designed and
       it is now on its way to implementation starting 2007. This Program responds to priorities
       and goals of the National Development Plan (PND)
   · Commercial contacts with buyers willing to pay high prices for the Nicaraguan cocoa on
       the basis of a consistent supply of the product have been made and efforts will be done in
       the context of the National Program above mentioned to reinforce the Nicaraguan cocoa
       supply chain.
   · A systematic work for institutional, organizational and business strengthening has been
       started with participation of important international cooperation agencies and national
       organizations.

Wood products:

   · produced a diagnostic study and cluster strategy for 2005-09.
   · formed strategic alliance with the Centro Agronomico Tropical de Investigacion y
       Ensenanza.
   · regional cluster commissions established in Valle de Tisma.
   · websites developed.
   · realization of trade fair "Expoventa Nicamueble".
   · approval of "Law of Conservation and Sustainable Development of the Forestry Sector".
   · assisted five producers in obtaining environmental certification for European market.




                                               37

Fish and Shellfish:

   · development of codes of practice for responsible shrimp farming in Nicaragua
   · certifiers accreditation for best practices in aquaculture (handled by Aquaculture
       Certification Council, Inc)
   · technical safety and sanitary practices in fish storing centres
   · dissemination of laws and fiscal incentives for the fish sector
   · improvement of traceability and technical management of small shrimp farmers
   · cost reduction of main inputs (Feeds and poslarvae).
   · building consensus on Estero Real Management Plan
   · building consensus on reforms to environment law (Law 217)

Meat products:

   · assistance to firms trying to enter new markets, obtain quality certificates for export, and
       promote organic and kosher products.
   · compilation of basic data on production.
   · assistance to public and private sector on marketing policy dealing with export of live
       cattle to Mexico and slaughterhouse procurement of animals



(b) Business Development Services

No outputs were listed for the BDS sub-component, although almost $442,000 was spent.

Component 2: Pilot reform of competitiveness policies, institutions and administrative
procedures related to private sector development



   · a draft law was prepared to reform the national system of technical training.
   · a draft law was prepared to reform the system of registries (commercial and property).
   · a draft law was prepared to establish a competition law, and the law was passed by the
       Legislative Assembly in October 2006.
   · a One Stop Window was established for foreign investors.
   · ProNicaragua was established as the agency responsible for the promotion of foreign
       investment. Ten promotion missions took place.
   · CEI was restructured into NicaExport, focusing on export promotion.
   · In 2005, prepared a plan for administrative simplification and initiated implementation in
       five areas: business and property registration, export procedures (CETREX), expatriate
       residence procedures, customs procedures in the Free Zones, and licenses for municipal
       construction. This was over and above what was originally envisaged ­ so learning did
       occur. Another source of learning ­ pertinent to the LIL were the ICA of 2004 and the
       Doing Business reports (starting in 2003).

Component 3: Project Management

   · Board of Directors works regularly and it extended with greater participation of the
       private sector. Also an executive committee of the Board of directors of the CPC was
       created to improve and to make agile the decision making.



                                              38

· CPC was consolidated with a successful businessman to serve as Secretariat Executive
  Director, and other experienced technicians to manage the components
· Gain financial confidence from donors and international organisms which is shown in the
  attainment of new funding:
      o Loan:
                    PROCOMPE Phase II US$ 17 million to support CPC
                    I.A.D.B. US$ 40 million multi-institutional program to develop the
                    coffee, tourism, beef and dairy clusters
      o Donation:
                    European Union to improve the quality of exports by         5 million to
                    create export quality to EU for coffee, shrimp, cocoa and beef
                    UNIDO counterparts US$1.8 million to develop clusters at provincial
                    level
                    PHRD for PROCOMPE Phase II, approx US$ 0.75 million
                    PFID-MSU USAID and Government of Canada approx US$ 0.17
                    million to monitoring and fund raising
                    DFID US$ 0.09 million to develop local competitiveness agendas
· Introduce two chapters of competitiveness in the PND.
· CPC, with SECEP, MIFIC and INCAE have contributed in the process to disseminate the
  competitiveness issue in policy making and dialogue
· creation, through round of interviews to members of the Board of Directors of CPC and
  stakeholders that uses and generates competitive related information, of the Enterprise
  Competitiveness Observatory for the monitoring and evaluation of competitiveness at
  world, mesoamerican, CAFTA, national, regional, sectoral and business level
· develop methodology to measure competitiveness at national, regional, sectoral and
  business level
· a pilot study to measure competitiveness at provintial and sectoral level in Rivas was
  done
· dissemination of analytical summaries of main international competitiveness studies
  (World Economic Forum, Doing Business, ICA, World Investment Report, etc), the
  economy in general, the sectorial evolution, and the market share in the USA via CDs
  and targeted e-mail to 1,500 decision makers nation wide.
· developed Plan of Strategic Communication
· a draft of the operational manual for CPC
· key participant in PROMIPYME and PRORURAL
· a reference institution for competitiveness
· an institution to represent Nicaragua in the Mesoamerican Council for Competitiveness




                                           39

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

Not necessary due to nature of the project.




                                            40

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                Title                Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Geeta Batra         Principal Operations
                    Off.                     CSMTA        Labor training

Michael P. Fowler   Senior Finance Officer   LOAG2        Disbursement
James C. Hanna       Lead Priv. Sector       LCSEG        Business Dev. Services
Eric G. Haythorne    Lead Counsel            LEGPS        Legal

Rodrigo A. Ortiz    Lead Investment
                    Promotion Officer        MIGOP        Investment promotion

Livio Pino          Consultant               LCSFM        Financial management
Benjamin M. Rowland Consultant               IEGSG
Mariangeles Sabella  Special Asst. to R.V.P. LCRVP        Legal

Damien Shiels       Sr Investment
                    Promotion Office         MIGOP        Investment Promotion

Hong W. Tan         Lead Economist           WBIFP        Labor training
Luis Tineo           Sr Procurement Spec.    LCSPT        Procurement

Michaela J. Weber   Private Sector
                    Development Spec.        AFTPS        Co-task team leader

Supervision/ICR
Reyes Aterido        Consultant              DECRG        Business climate
Amit Burman         E T Consultant           PPIAF        SME participation
Irani G. Escolano    Procurement Spec.       LCSPT        Procurement
Andrea Rodas Espinel Consultant              LCSFR        Quality enhancement

Michael J. Goldberg Sr Private Sector
                    Development              LCSPF        Task team leader

Luke Haggarty       Senior Operations
                    Officer                  CLALA        Task team leader

Kristin Hallberg     Consultant              IEGSG        Evaluation
Eric Palladini       Consultant              LCSEG        Evaluation
Enrique Antonio     Financial Management
Roman               Specialist               LCSFM        Financial Management

Manuel Sevilla       Sector Leader           LCSFP        Task team leader

Damien Shiels       Sr Investment
                    Promotion Office         MIGOP        Investment promotion

Stefka Slavova       Economist               LCSPF        Co-task team leader
Lisa Taber           Consultant              LCSFR        SME participation
Rosa G. Valencia De
Estrada             Consultant               LCSPT        Procurement

Jorge Vidaurre       PSD Specialist          LCSFR        Project management




                                            41

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived         DO              IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/29/2001             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.00
2   11/25/2001             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.50
3   05/31/2002             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.54
4   12/02/2002             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.90
5   06/04/2003             Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            1.37
6   12/08/2003             Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            2.02
7   05/26/2004             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              2.44
8   11/30/2004             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              3.10
9   04/26/2005             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              3.68
10 11/15/2005              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              4.50
11 06/01/2006              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              5.16
12 06/29/2006              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              5.38


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                               No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY00                                         9                37.93
                    FY01                                        25                88.17
                    FY02                                         1                 4.11
                    FY03                                                           0.00
                    FY04                                                           0.00
                    FY05                                                           0.00
                    FY06                                                           0.00
                    FY07                                                           0.00
                                       Total:                   35               130.21
Supervision/ICR
                    FY00                                                           0.00
                    FY01                                                          12.17
                    FY02                                        24                92.21
                    FY03                                        24               100.48
                    FY04                                        29               119.91
                    FY05                                        31               128.32
                    FY06                                        17                82.01
                    FY07                                         6                41.12
                                       Total:                  131               576.22




                                           42

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings              Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:      Satisfactory




                                              43

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       44

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  45

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The CPC provided written comments to the draft ICR report on December 11, 2006. This review
included a review by the Ministry of Economy (MIFIC) as well.




                                             46

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    47

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Batra, Geeta, Nicaragua: Enhancing Competitiveness through Skills, World Bank. 2000
BusinessWeek, Latin America. November 9, 2006
CPC and World Bank, Logros y lecciones aprendidas de PROCOMPE, June 2006
CPC and World Bank. Cumplimiento de los compromisos del marco lógico y lecciones
aprendidas de PROCOMPE, July 2005
de Ferranti, David, et. al., Closing the Gap in Education and Technology, Washington, DC:
World Bank. 2003 (Chapter 5: Clo sing the Skills Gap: Training Policies)
Foreign Investment Advisory Serivces (FIAS). Nicaragua: Reform of Labor Skills Training to
Strengthen the Competitiveness of the Nicaraguan Private Sector. Washington DC. January 2005
Government of Nicaragua, Plan Nacional de Desarrollo. Managua. 2003
Jaramillo, Carlos Felipe, and David Lederman. DR-CAFTA: Challenges and Opportunities for
Central America. World Bank, Was hington, DC. 2002
MC2 Group, Evaluacion de Medio Termino del Proyecto Competitividad, Aprendizaje, e
Innovacion (PROCOMPE), August 2003
MC2 Group, Marco Lógico del Proyecto Competitividad, Aprendizaje, e Innovación
(PROCOMPE), April 2004
MIGA. Investment Promotion Agency Performance Review. Washington, DC. 2006
MIGA. Investor Information Services. Washington DC. June 2006
Project Files (Supervision mission documents)
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Loan.
Washington DC. 2000
World Bank. Development Credit Agreement. Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Loan.
Washington DC. 2001
World Bank. Nicaragua Country Assistance Strategy. Washington DC 2002
World Bank. Doing Business 2005, 2006, 2007. Washington DC
World Bank. Nicaragua Investment Climate Assessment. Washington DC 2005




                                                 48

MAP




       49

