Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3456-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 24 , 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3456-NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 24, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BDC” means the business development center to be established pursuant to 
Part A.2 (i) of the Project;
(b)
“CEI” means the Borrower’s Center for Exports and Investment;
(c)
“Cluster” means a group composed by public officials and businessmen 
including, inter alia, suppliers, producers, distributors and service providers within 
the same economic sector who discuss and may propose programs to MIFIC to increase the 
international competitiveness of said economic sector;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, and under Grants;
(f)
“Eligible MSE” means a micro or small enterprises which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate under Part A.2 (iv) of the 
Project;
(g)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to an 
Eligible MSE to finance up to 85% of the cost of the technical assistance or training 
services to be provided under Part A.2 (iv) of the Project;
(h)
“INATEC” means the Borrower’s National Institute of Technical Assistance 
as established by Decree 3-91;
(i)
“MIFIC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry, Development and 
Commerce or any successor thereto; 
Page  3
(j)
“MSE” means micro and small enterprises;
(k) 
“NCP Executive Committee” means the national competitiveness program 
executive committee to be established pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(l)
“NCP Management Unit” means the national competitiveness program 
management unit to be established pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(m)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to under Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (b) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower under a Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2011 and ending December 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Industry, Development and Commerce or any other 
person he or she may authorize in writing are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (a) shall 
carry out the Project through MIFIC with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity 
with appropriate technical, administrative, trade related and financial practices; and 
(b) shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: 
Page  5
(a)
carry out the Project in accordance with a manual satisfactory to the 
Association, which manual shall contain, inter alia: (i) the rules of operation of the 
NCP Executive Committee, including the tie-break vote of the Minister of Industry, 
Development and Commerce in case of a draw in the decision making process of the NCP 
Executive Committee; (ii) the composition, functions and responsibilities of the NCP 
Executive Committee and of the NCP Management Unit; (iii) the criteria for an MSE to 
receive Grants; and (iv) the procedures for procurement, disbursement and financial 
management under the Project.  In case of disagreement between the provisions of the 
Operational Manual and the ones of this Agreement, the ones of this Agreement shall 
prevail;
(b)
establish within MIFIC, and thereafter maintain and operate at all times 
during Project implementation, an executive committee formed by the Minister of 
Industry, Development and Commerce and a businessman representative of the private 
sector, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including the 
responsibility of issuing general directives for the execution of the Project;
(c)
establish within MIFIC, and thereafter maintain and operate at all times 
during Project implementation, a management unit (the NCP Management Unit) with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
responsibility to: (i) implement the directives issued by the NCP Executive Committee 
in connection with the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) assist the Borrower in 
the monitoring and overall supervision of the Project; and 
(d)
ensure that the NCP Management Unit is, at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, headed by a project coordinator to be appointed by the 
NCP Executive Committee and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association, including an assistant fluent in 
English and Spanish, and other specialists as specified in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through the NCP Management Unit, shall:
(a) 
prior to providing goods or technical assistance to a Cluster or members 
of a Cluster under Part A.1(iii) of the Project, enter into arrangements with one or 
more members of said Cluster, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, 
including, inter alia, the obligation of said members to finance up to 15% of the cost 
of the goods or technical assistance to be provided under said Part of the Project; 
(b) 
enter into a management contract, satisfactory to the Association, for 
the operation of the BDC, which contract shall include stipulations related to, inter 
alia: (i) the Borrower’s property rights over the material produced and developed in 
such center; and (ii) the obligation of the operator to: (A) provide the following 
services to MSEs: training, quality assurance and export facilitation services, 
assistance on product design, and information on financing and government services; 
and (B) train personnel of MSE and business associations of the department of Masaya 
for them to be able to take over the management of the BDC after the termination of 
the contract with such operator; and
(c)
with respect to the activities referred to under Part A.1 (iii) of the 
Project, ensure that: (i) the organization, execution and evaluation of those 
activities are not harmful to indigenous people’s interests; and (ii) indigenous 
peoples shall be consulted about,  and have the opportunity to benefit from, those 
activities, all of these, to the same extent as any other person in the sector to 
which the activities are targeted.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through the NCP Management Unit, shall: (a) not 
later than November 30 of each year of Project implementation, starting in the year 
2001, prepare and furnish to the Association a plan of action, acceptable to the 
Page  6
Association, setting forth the Project activities to be carried by the Borrower during 
the calendar year following the date of presentation of said plan; and (b) thereafter 
carry out said plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the letter from 
the Borrower to the Association dated December 14, 2000;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November 30, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 30, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of 
each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and the 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
Page  7
reasonably requested including, as part of the information to be provided 
in each such report, a management 
letter concerning the Borrower’s 
internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit during the period covered 
by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Page  8
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Association; 
(b)  
the NCP Executive Committee has been established and staffed as provided 
for under Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
the NCP Management Unit has been established and staffed as provided for 
under Section 3.02 (c) and (d) of this Agreement; 
(d)
a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, setting forth the 
Project activities to be carried by the Borrower during the first year of Project 
implementation has been furnished to the Association; 
(e)
a financial management system satisfactory to the Association has been 
established in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement; and
(f)
a procurement plan and a consultant selection plan for the first six 
months of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, has been furnished to the 
Association.
Section 5.02. The date April 24, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Edificio Nuevo MIFIN
Fte. a la Asamblea Nacional
Managua, Nicaragua
Facsimile:  
Page  9
505-222-3033
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Alfonso Ortega Urbina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Goods
   328,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% 
of local 
expenditures
(2)
(a) Consultants’
 2,970,000
100%
Page  10
services
(b)
 Travel costs and 
    32,000
100%
per diem for trainees
(3)
Grants
   280,000
100% of the amount 
disbursed
(4)
Incremental 
    70,000
100% until 
disbursements 
Operating Costs
under this Category 
have 
reached an amount 
equivalent to SDR 
28,000; 80% until 
disbursement under 
this 
Category have 
reached 
an amount equivalent 
to 
SDR 50,000; and 60% 
thereafter.
(5)
Unallocated
   320,000
TOTAL
 4,000,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
“Incremental Operating Costs” means: (i) expenditures incurred in the 
daily operation of the BDC such as rent, utilities, and security personnel; (ii) the 
salary of an assistant to the NCP Management Unit; and (iii) stationery and related 
materials required under training and Cluster activities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures incurred prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods costing less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract (except those contracts subject to prior review by the 
Association as established in Section I, Part D.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement); 
(b) consulting services provided by firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; (c) consulting services provided by individuals costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) expenditures for Incremental Operating Costs; (e) Grants; 
and (f) travel costs and per diem for trainees; all of these under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Page  11
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  12
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Page  13
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to test private-public partnerships for 
developing consensus on business environment issues; (ii) to pilot information 
technology-based business development services; and (iii) to seek effective ways of 
increasing private sector participation in key business environment policy reforms.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Developing Clusters and information technology-based business development 
services.
1.
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) facilitate the organization of new 
Clusters and undertake the initial diagnosis and benchmarking assessments for Clusters 
in the light manufacture (inter alia, apparel); agroindustry (inter alia, dairy and 
coffee) and tourism sectors; (ii) identify cross-sector constraints and reform 
proposals; (iii) improve the productivity, quality and efficiency of the sectors 
represented in the Clusters and help the Clusters develop strategies, operational 
plans and activities required thereto; (iv) promote and disseminate the activities of 
the Clusters in order to include in them a large number of small businesses in 
decentralized rural areas; and (v) establish Cluster information networks. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance and goods to: (i) develop an information 
technology-based business development center (the BDC) in the department of Masaya for 
the provision of training, assistance in quality assurance, export facilitation, and 
product design, and information on financing and government services to MSE; (ii) 
instruct trainers in management of MSEs; (iii) develop business associations and train 
them in the management of the BDC; and (iv) enhance MSEs’ access to training through 
the set up of a Grant system.
Part B:
Pilot reform of competitiveness policies, institutions, and 
administrative procedures related to private sector 
development.
1.
Development of an action plan for the reform of the public training system 
currently being implemented by INATEC, including the participation of the private 
sector in the management and provision of said training, through the generation of 
consensus and the carrying out of a pilot program to incorporate the private sector in 
the management of the before mentioned public training system.
2.
Increase MIFIC’s capacity to promote domestic competition through training and 
technical assistance in areas such as deregulation, anti-competitive practices 
polices, industry standards and metrology, and consumer protection.
3.
Improving the Borrower’s CEI’s foreign direct investment strategy and consequent 
promotional activities through the provision of technical assistance and training.
4.
Provision of goods and technical assistance to: (i) improve the Borrower’s 
commercial registry regulatory framework and offices; and (ii) study and diagnose 
Page  14
possible improvements to the Borrower’s commercial code.
Part C:
Project Management
Strengthening the capacity of the NCP Management Unit to carry out its 
responsibilities under the Project through the provision of technical assistance and 
training. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $90,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Every six months, starting with the delivery of the plan required under Section 
Page  15
5.01(f) of this Agreement, a proposed procurement plan for the following six months of 
Project implementation shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods during such period shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods procured pursuant to Part B.1 hereof and 
the first two contracts for goods procured pursuant to Part C.1 hereof, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: 
(a) the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the following 
Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost an aggregate amount of $1,380,000 equivalent 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  16
1.
Selection Planning
Every six months, starting with the delivery of the plan required under Section 
5.01(f) of this Agreement, a proposed plan for the selection of consultants for the 
following six months of Project implementation shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
during such period shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent less than the equivalent of $50,000, terms of 
reference of the consulting firms shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the terms 
of reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract under paragraphs b and d above, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
